

401 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Buyers Step Up Treasuries Purchases

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
International investors stepped up purchases of United States securities in June for the first time in five months amid faster economic growth in America compared with Europe and Japan.
 Net purchases rose to $71.8 billion in June from a revised $65.2 billion in May, the Treasury Department said yesterday. Foreigners bought $40.5 billion of Treasuries as the yield on the benchmark 10-year note neared its highest in two years. 
 The increase came as economic growth in Japan and the euro region faltered in the second quarter. The purchases may help ease concern about the attractiveness of United States assets after a government report on Friday showed that the nation's trade deficit widened to a record, said Stephen Jen, head of currency research at Morgan Stanley in London.
 ''Some investors are too fixated on the U.S. deficit,'' Mr. Jen said. ''If you look at the demand for dollar assets and U.S. Treasuries, it's hard to say people have a lot of fears about financing the U.S. deficit.''
 Japan bought a net $21.2 billion of Treasuries in June, up from $15.7 billion in May. Japan is the largest foreign holder of Treasuries, accounting for $689 billion, followed by China, with $164.8 billion. China purchased a net $700 million of Treasuries in June, down from $3.1 billion the previous month.
 Japan increased its ownership of Treasuries even as the Bank of Japan, the country's central bank, refrained from selling its currency and buying dollars for a fourth month.
 The Bank of Japan tried to hold down the value of its currency by selling about $290 billion worth of yen for United States dollars in the first quarter, investing much of the proceeds in Treasuries. China buys dollars to ensure that its currency, the yuan, stays at a value of about 8.3 to the dollar.
 Gains in the dollar from the Treasury figures on foreign purchases may be short-lived, said Steven Saywell, senior currency strategist at Citigroup in London. The widening United States current-account deficit, the broadest measure of trade because it includes investment, will weaken the dollar to $1.29 against the euro in six months and $1.32 in a year, he predicted.
 The United States trade deficit ballooned in June to a record $55.8 billion as imports of crude oil surged and slowing growth in Japan and Europe curbed export demand. The gap in the trade of goods and services followed a $46.9 billion shortfall in May, the Commerce Department said.
 The increase in purchases came as growth in Japan and the euro region faltered. Gross domestic product in Japan rose at an annual 1.7 percent pace in the second quarter, less than half the forecast of economists. In the euro region, the pace of expansion cooled to 0.5 percent from the first three months of the year. The United States economy grew at an annual 3 percent pace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EURO (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (64%) Foreign Investments

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Treasury Department; European Union

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) United States; Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



402 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: THE UPRISING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Conferees Decide to Send a Delegation to Embattled Holy City

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Alex Berenson contributed reporting from Najaf for this article.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
As fighting between American forces and Shiite militiamen flared again in the southern city of Najaf, a conference of Iraqis gathering here to form a national assembly decided on Monday to send a delegation to the city.
 As many as 60 political, religious and social leaders will leave Tuesday morning for Najaf, where fighters loyal to the cleric Moktada al-Sadr and based in Shiite Islam's holiest shrine have been battling American and Iraqi forces. Delegates said the group would ask that Mr. Sadr disarm his militia, leave the shrine and join the political process. 
 One of the Iraqi delegates, Aziz al-Yasiri, said aides to Mr. Sadr had agreed to meet the group. It was not clear whether Mr. Sadr would attend or send aides, as he did with government envoys late last week. 
 The group's demands were drafted by Hussein al-Sadr, a Shiite cleric who is distantly related to the militia leader. 
 His proposal, punctuated by frequent bursts of applause, appeared to have broad support among the 1,100-member conference, which is to choose a national assembly that will oversee the interim government until national elections scheduled for January.
 While making his proposal, Hussein al-Sadr stayed away from the sharp criticism that other delegates expressed for Prime Minister Ayad Allawi and his interim government. 
 Instead, he voiced understanding of the government's challenge: keeping order while taking care not to enrage the large swaths of dispossessed Shiites who are Mr. Sadr's followers. ''The presence of the militia in the eyes of the law in advanced countries is wrong,'' he said. ''The presence of armed militia means a state within a state, and this won't work.''
 Even as delegates worked to find vehicles and private security guards for the highly dangerous road south, fighting resumed between Mr. Sadr's militia, the Mahdi Army, and American forces. 
 One Army battalion skirmished with insurgents in the huge cemetery that has been the scene of the heaviest fighting, just north of Najaf's Old City, while another attacked several buildings around the outer edge of the Old City, where insurgents were believed to be hiding. At nightfall, American marines set out to raid more buildings in the district. 
 Near the southern city of Amara, Mahdi Army fighters struck at the heart of Iraq's economic engine on Monday, setting fire to an oil field, a spokesman for Dr. Allawi said. The attack caused a brief jump in world oil prices and came after a similar action on pipelines in Basra, the Shiite city in the country's far southeast where Mr. Sadr's followers have been fighting.
 Fighting also broke out in Baghdad, in the Shiite district of Sadr City, another of Mr. Sadr's strongholds. Rebel fighters detonated a bomb under an American tank and then set it afire, Reuters reported. The crew escaped with minor injuries.
 The showdown with Mr. Sadr, which began in early August, has posed the single biggest challenge to Dr. Allawi's government. Mr. Sadr has brazenly defied Dr. Allawi, but has proven elusive mainly because he is a popular cleric based in the holiest Shiite shrine, and storming his hide-out would be politically explosive.
 Mr. Sadr has previously refused requests to disarm and leave the shrine. But those demands were set by Dr. Allawi's government, which Mr. Sadr has called illegitimate, and the hope was that Mr. Sadr would be more receptive to the conference delegates, who represent an ethnic, religious and social cross section of Iraq's 25 million citizens. 
 ''Now he's in a good position to accept these suggestions,'' said Ahmad Barak, a former member of the now defunct Governing Council, set up by the Americans to help run the country after the war. ''The solution is being offered not by the government but by the conference. It's a big difference.''
 A critical aspect of the negotiations is how the Iraqi public will perceive them. 
 Many Iraqis say Mr. Sadr needs to be given a chance to get out of the deadlock gracefully, and the delegation from the conference offers one, said Samir Sumaitey, who served as interior minister during a previous round of fighting with Mr. Sadr's forces this spring. 
 ''They're very much behind giving an opportunity first,'' Mr. Sumaitey said. ''The resolution gives him that clear choice. He has to say yes or no. If he says no, the government will to a large extent be absolved'' of having to handle him so carefully.
 The government, for its part, still seemed willing to talk. On Monday afternoon, Dr. Allawi's spokesman reiterated in a statement the government's request that Mr. Sadr disarm. 
 ''We guarantee his security and safety if he gives up his armed militias and considers mixing with the groups of civilian society,'' said the spokesman, George Sada.
 But even as the statement came out, Iraqi Army soldiers began to arrive in the area around Najaf, American commanders there said. 
 The Iraqi government has promised that Iraqi troops will carry out any future battles with Mr. Sadr's militia, although whether Iraqi forces are capable of defeating the guerrillas without American aid is unclear.
 Even if Mr. Sadr does agree to disarm, the longer-term problem of what to do with his armed followers, and of how to court the thousands of mostly poor Shiites who support him, still hangs over the new government. 
 ''The big challenge would be how to integrate a dissolved Mahdi Army back into social life,'' said Jamal Benomar, the United Nations diplomat who is advising Iraq on the conference. ''This will require serious planning, resources and special expertise.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, a militiaman loyal to the rebel cleric Moktada al-Sadr waves his weapon atop a burning American tank after it was destroyed during clashes yesterday between the Mahdi Army and American forces in Sadr City, a rebel stronghold in Baghdad. The American military said the tank's crew escaped. Left, a fighter on a Sadr City street was hidden in a cloud of dust moments after firing a rocket-propelled grenade toward American tanks. (Photographs by Joao Silva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); POLITICS (90%); RELIGION (90%); ARMIES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Politics and Government; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (91%) Sabrina Tavernise; Moktada Al- Sadr; Hussein al- Sadr

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%) Iraq; Najaf (Iraq); Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



403 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; HURRICANE CHARLEY: AGRICULTURE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Hurricane Badly Hurt Florida Crops

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

DATELINE: KISSIMMEE, Fla., Aug. 16 

 BODY:
Hurricane Charley ripped through some of the nation's richest agricultural land, inflicting hundreds of millions of dollars in damage to Florida's second-largest industry after tourism, state officials said on Monday. 
 The hurricane uprooted orange and grapefruit trees, shattered greenhouses and smashed barns, tractors and fences on vegetable farms and cattle ranches.
 ''We think the damage is going to be in the hundreds of millions,'' Charles H. Bronson, the Florida commissioner of agriculture, said in an interview here. ''It could be a billion or more -- we just don't know yet.'' 
 Speaking on the tarmac of Kissimmee Gateway Airport as he prepared to board a helicopter to look at the farm damage to the south and west, Mr. Bronson said earlier reports suggested that the heaviest damage had been to citrus and the fast-growing nursery business that uses greenhouses to produce potted shrubs, flowers and trees and seedlings for customers throughout the United States.
 ''There is some serious damage, especially to citrus,'' Mr. Bronson said, adding that ''a lot of greenhouses have been knocked down and totally destroyed, in some cases.''
 Dan Richey, the chief executive of River Fruit Packing in Vero Beach, on the Atlantic coast of Florida, said the hurricane had torn up a 25- to 50-mile swath of the state's citrus belt from Arcadia in the south to Orlando.
 ''It moved right through the heart of our citrus-growing area,'' said Mr. Richey, who served until June as chairman of the Florida Citrus Commission.
 None of the cattle in Florida's huge beef and dairy herds have been found dead as a result of the storm, officials said. But Mr. Bronson said that because of the widespread loss of electricity, thousands of dairy cattle on 10 farms had not been milked for days and were in danger of ''drying up'' as milk producers. The state is bringing in electric generators to operate the farms' milking machines, he said.
 Mr. Bronson said his department was also working to help the state's migrant farm workers, many of whom lost homes in the hurricane and, with the crop damage, may lose their jobs. 
 Representative Adam H. Putnam, a Republican whose family owns citrus farms and cattle ranches here, said the hurricane's gusts shook oranges and grapefruit off many trees. ''There's a lot of fruit on the ground,'' said Mr. Putnam, who was traveling with the agriculture commissioner.
 While oranges have been an enduring symbol of Florida, Mr. Bronson said that three years ago ornamental plants edged past oranges, limes and grapefruit to become the state's biggest agricultural money maker. An aide said that citrus now brought in about $1.5 billion in revenue compared with $1.6 billion for nursery plants.
 The total impact on the Florida economy from the nurseries, Mr. Bronson said, is estimated at $10.7 billion, compared with $9.4 billion from citrus. 
 Agriculture contributed $50 billion to Florida's $472 billion economy in 2003, only $2 billion less than tourism, said Pam Dana, director of the Florida Office of Tourism, Trade and Economic Development in Tallahassee. 
 Florida is the nation's leading producer of oranges, grapefruit and sugar cane and ranks second in nursery plants and tomatoes. 
 Prices for citrus fruit and juices were depressed last year because of oversupply. One possible effect of the storm damage may be to reduce the world's supply of citrus and thus raise prices for the industry.
 Forty-four years ago, Hurricane Donna caused flooding in the central farm region that killed many cattle, Mr. Bronson said. But he said much higher economic losses were caused in 1992 by Hurricane Andrew, which ravaged South Florida and destroyed lime, avocado and mango groves. 
 The damage from Hurricane Charley ranges over a large part of the state, he said, while Hurricane Andrew's force was much more tightly contained. As a result, Mr. Bronson said, this hurricane's impact on agriculture could be greater than Hurricane Andrew's. The 1992 storm, with total damages of $20 billion, was the most economically devastating hurricane in modern times. 
 The airfield here where Mr. Bronson stopped to talk with Osceola County officials bore the scars of Hurricane Charley, too.
 Across the runway from Mr. Bronson's helicopter, a huge dome-shaped steel hangar lay in a crumpled ruin, 15 small aircraft pinned under it. 
 In another direction, a smaller steel hangar had collapsed on five planes. Two other planes with damaged fuselages straddled ditches. Five other planes were wrecked when empty steel hangars were flung through the air by the hurricane's winds. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FARM LABOR (89%); DAIRY FARMING (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CITRUS GROVES (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (79%); POWER FAILURES (79%); WEATHER (79%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (77%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (77%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (71%); HELICOPTERS (69%); LAYOFFS (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); MIGRANT WORKERS (60%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Charley (Storm); Agriculture; Citrus Fruits; Finances; Vegetables; Livestock; Cattle

PERSON: ADAM PUTNAM (58%) Joseph B Treaster; Charles (Comr) Bronson

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (98%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Florida 

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



404 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: After Circulation Scandal, a Move to Build Trust

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
The Belo Corporation said yesterday that it had set aside $23 million to compensate advertisers for exaggerated circulation figures at The Dallas Morning News, as it seeks to limit the fallout from a scandal of the type that has enveloped a number of media companies. 
 Belo announced on Aug. 5 that its average circulation for the six months ended in September 2003 was overstated by 5 percent on Sundays and 1.5 percent for the rest of the week. In addition to the $23 million in cash payments, which the company plans to record as a charge in the third quarter, Belo said yesterday that it planned to spend an additional $3 million on its continuing investigation into the matter and $4 million on newsprint costs related to credits being offered to advertisers for future advertisements.
 Because advertising rates are tied to circulation, the media companies dealing with the disclosure of inflated figures have had to make it a priority to rebuild the confidence of advertisers. 
 ''The trust of our advertisers is a pillar of the economic value Belo has built for our shareholders,'' Robert W. Decherd, the chairman, president and chief executive, said in a statement. ''This compensation plan should be regarded as an investment in the company's future.''
 Belo -- which owns three other daily newspapers, including The Providence Journal, and 19 television stations -- is one of three companies that has announced since early June that at least one of its papers had exaggerated its readership. The impact of those disclosures has rippled through the newspaper and advertising industries, and forced new attention on the practices and effectiveness of the Audit Bureau of Circulations, the nonprofit organization that collects and verifies circulation data.
 In June, the Tribune Company said that Newsday and the Spanish-language daily Hoy had inflated circulation by as much as 19 percent for the 12 months ended last September. Last month, Tribune recorded a pretax charge of $35 million as its estimate of the cost to settle with advertisers. Tribune is facing at least two lawsuits related to circulation overstatements, including one filed last month on behalf of 50 car dealers who had advertised in Newsday, which is based in Melville, N.Y.
 The disclosures by Tribune followed an announcement by Hollinger International that one of its papers, The Chicago Sun-Times, had overstated its circulation figures. The company has not characterized the magnitude of the overstatement, or its duration, but has said that it intends to report soon on the progress of its investigation.
 In its announcement earlier this month, Belo said that its overstatements were related to discrepancies in how it recorded unsold papers, and that Barry Peckham, vice president for operations at The Dallas Morning News, had resigned. Yesterday the company said an internal investigation had found no evidence of circulation overstatements at its other newspapers. Belo said that big and small advertisers alike would receive rebates calculated using the same formula.
 Because The Morning News's Sunday circulation was most dramatically affected -- it was reported as 785,876 in September, but will be restated as having been closer to 746,500 -- Belo will offer the largest rebates to Sunday advertisers. They will receive cash payments equal to 10 percent of what they spent on total Sunday advertising from Aug. 1, 2003, to July 31, 2004.
 In addition, all advertisers will receive advertising credits equal to 5 percent of their spending over the same period, to be used anytime between Sept. 1 and Feb. 28, 2005. Meanwhile, anyone who has placed a classified advertisement over the last 13 months will receive a free five-line ad.
 Mr. Decherd said that over the last two weeks, the paper's advertising staff had contacted more than 2,000 advertisers to apologize for the problem and assure them that the paper would make amends.
 One of those advertisers was James G. Smith, owner and founder of Dalworth Carpet Cleaning in Euless, a suburb of Dallas.
 Mr. Smith, who estimated that he had spent a total of $25,000 on advertising in the weekday and Sunday papers over the last two months alone, said he received a call from a Morning News sales representative yesterday morning telling him about the settlement plan.
 ''It seemed like a real good offer to me,'' he said.
 ''My understanding is that they discovered this problem themselves,'' he added. ''I've just got to tell you, I intend to stay with them.''
 But Mr. Smith and other advertisers will be placing their ads in a newspaper with a significantly smaller circulation. Belo said yesterday that, combined with other declines in circulation, The Morning News would report an overall drop of 11.5 percent on Sundays and 5 percent in daily circulation for the six-month period ending Sept. 30, compared with a year earlier.
 Shares in Belo, which is based in Dallas, closed yesterday at $22.02, an increase of 80 cents. 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)Chart: ''Pumping Up Their Numbers''This year, three prominent newspapers have said that they overstated circulation figures. Advertisers pay rates that are based, in part, on these figures.Newsday -- Feb. 10Four advertisers sue Newsday, based in Melville, N.Y., and its Spanish-language sister, Hoy, claiming that circulation figures were inflated from 1995 to 1999. After saying the suit was without merit, the Tribune Company, parent of the papers, acknowledged in June that more recent circulation figures had been inflated
 it sets aside $35 million to reimburse advertisers and lowers ad rates. Several executives, including publishers of both papers, resign or move up retirement dates.Chicago Sun-Times -- June 15Hollinger International, publisher of The Sun-Times, says its circulation was inflated and that figures were being reviewed by auditors. A number of advertisers file suits.Dallas Morning News -- Aug. 5The Belo Corporation, parent of The Dallas Morning News, says that a change in how unsold copies were counted had led it to overstate circulation. It sets aside $23 million to reimburse advertisers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ETHICS (72%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (70%); NEWSPRINT (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SALES REBATES (60%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Newspapers; Advertising and Marketing; Ethics; Newspapers

COMPANY: BELO CORP (96%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (51%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Belo, A H, Corp; Dallas Morning News; Tribune Co; Newsday; Hoy (Spanish-Language Newspaper); Chicago Sun-Times; Hollinger International Inc

TICKER: BLC (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%)

PERSON: Jacques Steinberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



405 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Starts to Crack Down on Counterfeit Goods

BYLINE: By TODD BENSON

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
When Brazilian police arrested the suspected leader of one of the country's biggest rings involved in smuggling counterfeit goods on June 1, officials here hailed the move as proof that Brazil was finally cracking down on copyright piracy after years of looking the other way.
 Law Kin Chong, a naturalized Brazilian originally from China, was arrested in an elaborate sting operation after he was videotaped offering a $1.5 million bribe to the head of a congressional committee investigating counterfeiting. Mr. Law, the owner of three shopping centers in downtown Sao Paulo where consumers can buy counterfeit or smuggled goods as diverse as CD's and DVD's, Rolex watches and brand-name clothing, had become one of the most notorious symbols of Brazil's thriving black market in pirated goods.
 Brazil stands to lose billions of dollars in trade benefits from the United States if it does not prove by the end of September that it is making progress in combating copyright piracy. 
 Since 2001, Brazil has been on the United States trade representative's priority watch list of countries that fail to protect intellectual property rights. Hoping to prod the Brazilian authorities into action, the Bush administration at the end of June gave the country 90 days to improve copyright enforcement or lose all or some of the trade benefits it gets under a program known as the generalized system of preferences. 
 The program, which began in 1976, is intended to promote economic growth in eligible developing countries by allowing them to export certain products to the United States duty-free. In 2003, the United States imported more than $21 billion in goods from 140 countries and territories under the program. 
 Brazil alone accounted for $2.5 billion of that amount, shipping goods as varied as automobile parts and wooden doors to the United States free of tariffs. Over all, Brazilian exports to the United States last year totaled $16.7 billion.
 To remain eligible for the trade benefits, countries must meet such criteria as protecting worker rights and intellectual property. Companies like Nike Inc. and major Hollywood movie studios lose billions of dollars every year because of counterfeiting, mostly in developing countries like Brazil, where enforcement of copyright laws tends to be lax and police corruption is rife. 
 In 2003, United States' trade losses here amounted to $785 million for the film, television, recording, software and publishing industries, according to the International Intellectual Property Alliance, a Washington trade group that has lobbied the Bush administration to revoke Brazil's benefits under the preferences program.
 Despite the arrest of a handful of suspected smuggling kingpins like Mr. Law, critics say Brazil's enforcement of intellectual property rights has worsened in the 19 months since President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva took office.
 ''There's been no progress at all,'' said Steve Solot, senior vice president for Latin American operations at the Motion Picture Association, which represents big Hollywood studios.
 Mr. Solot, whose industry lost an estimated $120 million in Brazil last year from copyright violations, expressed appreciation that Mr. Law had been arrested, ''but that doesn't help us that much,'' he said. ''We need an institutional change.''
 Brazil appeared to take a step in that direction in March 2001, when the government of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso created a cabinet-level committee to fight piracy, which was continued by Mr. da Silva's administration. But the committee has been widely criticized as ineffective under both presidents, having done little more than distribute brochures outlining the ills of piracy and being the co-sponsor of a conference on counterfeiting.
 More recently, the Brazilian Congress has moved aggressively to tackle the piracy problem. In May 2003, the lower house convened a special committee to study the adverse economic impact of copyright piracy, smuggling and tax evasion. The result was a severely critical 344-page report urging the government to adopt a national plan to fight counterfeiting. Other recommendations include disbanding the cabinet committee on piracy, lengthening prison terms for intellectual property crimes and increasing police surveillance on the border with Paraguay, long a hotbed of contraband and smuggling.
 ''We found that the piracy problem in Brazil is out of control,'' said Luiz Antonio de Medeiros, the head of the congressional committee. ''Our report has specific recommendations on how to address this problem. Now it's up to the government to do its part.''
 Faced with the prospect of losing trade benefits in its biggest export market, many political analysts expect Mr. da Silva's administration to move swiftly to put some of the committee's recommendations into effect. After receiving the report last Thursday, Mr. da Silva's justice minister, Marcio Thomaz Bastos, announced plans to create an antipiracy task force including government and police officials, as well as representatives from the private sector, but he did not say when he would actually create the task force.
 Brazilian officials say they are as interested as the United States in enforcing intellectual property rights, citing the effect that piracy has on Brazil's own economy. According to the congressional report, counterfeiting and smuggling costs the country the equivalent of close to $10 billion a year in lost tax revenue.
 The Brazilian music industry has also been hit especially hard by copyright violations. Six out of every 10 CD's or cassettes sold in the country are counterfeit copies, costing the music industry here the equivalent of about $220 million a year in lost revenue, according to the Brazilian Association of Record Producers. Some small record companies like Abril Music have been forced out of business by music piracy.
 ''We're the ones who are interested in stopping this problem; it's not just a matter of placating the United States,'' said Clodoaldo Hugueney, the under secretary for economic affairs at Brazil's foreign ministry.
 ''But in a country like Brazil, which has major budget constraints and a serious problem with public security, you have to understand that intellectual property crimes have to be weighed against other issues that are more urgent,'' he added. ''We expect the United States to take that into account and to recognize that we're doing all we can to combat piracy.''
 In the past the United States has revoked trade benefits for other countries for failing to protect intellectual property. In 1997, for instance, the Clinton administration suspended half of Argentina's benefits under the general system of preferences because its pharmaceutical patent law was deemed unsatisfactory. And in 2001 Ukraine's trade preferences under the system were revoked because it failed to protect intellectual property rights.
 But it may be more difficult to take a hard line with Brazil, which has become an influential player in global trade talks in recent years. Brazil and the United States are currently sharing the chairmanship of the final round of negotiations to create a Free Trade Area of the Americas, though the talks have been bogged down by disagreements over issues like agriculture and intellectual property rights. Stripping Brazil of some its existing trade benefits could sour the talks even more, analysts warn.
 Although revoking all the benefits from the general system of preferences program is not unprecedented, ''it also isn't necessarily the best way to engage reform,'' said Jeffrey J. Schott, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics, a group in Washington that generally favors economic globalization and describes itself as a private, nonprofit, nonpartisan research institution with an audience including government officials and legislators. 
 ''There's likely to be less than drastic action taken,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A vendor offers to sell software DVD's from a makeshift stand on a street in Sao Paulo. Copyright holders say piracy in Brazil amounts to hundreds of millions of dollars a year. (Photo by Paulo Fridman for The New York Times)(pg. W1)
 A vendor pushed a cart filled with CD's on a street in Sao Paulo. Brazil has begun to enforce laws against counterfeiting and smuggling. (Photo by Paulo Fridman for The New York Times)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERFEITING (94%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (90%); ARRESTS (90%); FILM (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (85%); BRIBERY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (77%); COPYRIGHT LAW (77%); TRENDS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); EXPORT CONTROLS (77%); LOBBYING (76%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PUBLISHING (72%); CLOTHING LABELS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (56%) Counterfeit Merchandise; International Trade and World Market; Foreign Aid; Economic Conditions and Trends; Copyrights

COMPANY: NIKE INC (63%)

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (63%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (63%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (63%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (63%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%) Todd Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (94%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



406 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; FALLOUT FROM A RESIGNATION: THE SENATOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Vie In Two Capitols To Get Corzine

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Josh Benson contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Senator Jon S. Corzine, the multimillionaire banker who personally financed his own Senate victory four years ago, is under intense and competing pressures. Democrats in New Jersey are urging him to intervene in the state's political crisis and run for governor, while Democrats in Washington are pushing him to fulfill his commitment to lead their efforts to raise campaign cash and win back control of the Senate.
 Mr. Corzine has not spoken publicly about his intentions, but friends and colleagues say he is torn: he badly wants to become governor of New Jersey, but he is also reluctant to turn his back on the Senate at this late date. 
 The pressure in Washington has been measured, but clear. Democratic members of the Senate leadership have reminded Mr. Corzine that he accepted a job as head of the Democratic Senate Campaign Committee and is expected to see it through, Senate members and officials said. In that role, Mr. Corzine has been at the forefront in raising money to finance key Senate fights from South Dakota to Florida. 
 ''He is a standup guy, that is one of the reasons he is so well respected,'' said a Senate aide, who added that he doubted Mr. Corzine would opt to seek the governorship now.
 But in New Jersey, Democrats who are eager to end Gov. James E. McGreevey's bid to hold onto office until Nov. 15 are maneuvering to persuade Mr. Corzine to intercede. Mr. McGreevey, a Democrat, announced plans to resign in a public confessional on Thursday in which he said he was gay and had had an adulterous affair with a man. If Democrats can persuade Mr. McGreevey to step down by Sept. 3, there would be a special election in November with the winner serving the remaining year on his term.
 Mr. Corzine, 57, whose money and stature as a formidable political force gives him appeal, has emerged as the consensus candidate among the Democrats seeking to oust Mr. McGreevey. Mr. Corzine has not spoken publicly since Mr. McGreevey's resignation announcement.
 But party officials say privately that Mr. Corzine has indicated he would run in the special election, but does not want to be seen as the one who pushed out Mr. McGreevey.
 ''I think they see the continuing revelations really being a detriment to the party, and they're afraid that even at election time in 2005, they'll still be running on the difficulties that McGreevey created,'' Ingrid Reed of the Eagleton Institute of Politics, at Rutgers University, said of the state Democrats.
 Mr. Corzine's silence is unusual. During his four years in the Senate, Mr. Corzine has developed a reputation as one of its more accessible members, often willing to chat with reporters and constituents. But not now. With Mr. Corzine quiet, a number of his Democratic colleagues in Washington continued to express cautious confidence that he would not abandon his national efforts.
 ''There is no panic right now,'' said an aide to the Senate re-election effort. The aide said part of the relative calm results from a presumption that Mr. McGreevey will not step down in time to prompt a special election.
 For the moment, though, Mr. Corzine is experiencing a startling turn for a politician who just a few years ago was viewed as a neophyte at home and seen skeptically in Washington. He was, after all, hardly the picture of a Democratic politician. Mr. Corzine, a Wall Street insider and a millionaire, was more comfortable in a board room or a client meeting than in front of a crowd. 
 But in a few years the senior senator from New Jersey has become one the state's most sought-after politicians. People who know and work with him say they are not surprised. They say Mr. Corzine is a rare blend: yes, he had a Rolodex of millionaire friends and associates he could tap into when he went to Washington. But he was also described as a millionaire willing to carry his own bag and hail his own taxi. Perhaps more impressive to his Senate colleagues, he was a politician willing to do grunt work that would advance his party's fortunes without bringing himself headlines.
 It is possible, though, that it came together for Mr. Corzine a bit too well. He is needed to fix his home state's debacle, while also needed to aid in his party's national ambitions.
 He is, for instance, being discussed as a possible secretary of the treasury should John Kerry win the White House. He is being credited with having helped the Democrats develop a credible drive to regain the Senate, and he has emerged as a spokesman for his party on economic issues.
 ''He has gotten himself into a place to be a substantial player in the Senate, in the Democratic party, and therefore I can't imagine he would allow himself to be drafted now,'' said Thomas E. Mann, a senior fellow in American governance at the Brookings Institution. ''This certainly does not seem to fit his timing to return to New Jersey now.''
 Mr. Corzine grew up on a family farm in Willey's Station, a small town in central Illinois. His official biography says that his father sold insurance and his mother was a public school teacher. After graduating from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1969 and receiving his master's in 1973 from the University of Chicago, he went to work in the banking industry.
 Mr. Corzine joined Goldman Sachs in 1975, when he moved to New Jersey. He left the company in May 1999 after having served as chairman and chief executive. Mr. Corzine's time at Goldman Sachs, where he developed a reputation as a brilliant trader of government bonds, set the stage for his eventual run for office, enriching him financially, cementing his personal and unassuming style, and ultimately teaching him about consensus building. Those lessons appear to have served him well in the Senate.
 Colleagues who worked with Mr. Corzine said he was an unusual chief executive. Like his counterparts at other companies, he got up early, worked out in a gymnasium and was often behind his desk by 7 a.m. But his colleagues said he was often in shirtsleeves with a sweater vest, and was always approachable, generally eschewing the more imperial style associated with financial titans.
 ''He is a very down-to-earth, very decent guy,'' said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International and a Corzine supporter.
 But where Mr. Corzine's easygoing, affable manner helped land him his company's top job, it did not help him keep it. Though the details are not clear, Mr. Corzine was ultimately forced out of Goldman Sachs. At the time, it was still a partnership, a relatively conservative partnership, that operated on consensus. Mr. Corzine, however, ran the company as if he was the chief executive -- he had the title -- though he served at the pleasure of the partnership.
 ''I think there was a feeling that he was taking the firm too far, too fast,'' said one Goldman Sachs employee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''Goldman is a famous builder of consensus and Jon got a little ahead of the pack.''
 There was no bad blood, however. When he left, he was estimated to have several hundred million dollars, a net worth that allowed him to buy himself a statewide campaign for Senate. He defeated the former governor, Jim Florio, in a Democratic primary, and went on to victory in the general election.
 Having been an executive for so many years at Goldman, Mr. Corzine had some adjustments to make when he found himself a backbencher in the Senate. With no seniority, and ultimately a member of the minority, Mr. Corzine could have gotten lost. But Senate colleagues, staff and political observers said he went to work with quiet resolve to make himself a political force.
 Two years after joining the Senate, he was named head of the Democratic Senate Campaign Committee, an appointment initially credited to his deep pockets and fund-raising prowess. While Mr. Corzine did prove himself an able fund-raiser, even in the face of the new campaign finance laws, he also proved himself a credible political operative, helping to recruit candidates to run in many states. Some of his economic policies have been adopted by the Kerry campaign.
 ''I think there was a degree of skepticism as there is with each of these really rich guys who seem to buy a Senate seat,'' said Charles E. Cook Jr., editor and publisher of the Cook Political Report. ''He fits in really well now. He is taken seriously. I think he has cut through.''
 Others agree.
 ''I think Jon Corzine is one of the most well-liked and effective senators,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, a Democratic colleague from New York. ''It goes No. 1 to his genuineness. He is sort of a nonpolitician, and that makes him a better politician.''
 Mr. Corzine found that his formula worked for him at home, too. His ability to raise money, his willingness to work hard and modesty have New Jersey Democrats clamoring for him to come home and help defuse the crisis there.
 Not only is Mr. Corzine well-known, but he also could finance his own campaign for governor, a huge advantage given the condensed time frame of a special election.
 ''If you're going to have a short campaign, you want somebody who can hit the ground running,'' said Representative Bill Pascrell of Paterson. ''There's no two ways about it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. James E. McGreevey, right, returned to work yesterday. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); GOVERNORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%) Elections; Governors (US); Finances; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Ethics; Homosexuality; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: Congress (US); Senate (US)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%) Michael Slackman; Jon S (Sen) Corzine; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Jersey; New Jersey; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



407 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; HURRICANE CHARLEY: FEDERAL RESPONSE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: With Laptops and Flashlights, Relief Agency Sets Up Shop

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: PORT CHARLOTTE, Fla., Aug. 16 

 BODY:
On the first business day since Hurricane Charley slammed into Charlotte County, the Federal Emergency Management Agency on Monday was looking past disaster relief to recovery.
 The agency opened its first disaster relief center, where homeowners and business owners could come to apply for help like low-interest loans and unemployment insurance benefits. 
 The polite, sympathetic and generally well-informed aid counselors set up in the steaming gymnasium of a community recreation center, which remained without electricity and other basic services. The only light came through the windows, and staff members offered flashlights to visitors who needed to use the toilets. 
 Jay and Sunita Misir walked in with their two children and were promptly seated at a metal folding table with Jenny Stewart, who works in a division of the Small Business Administration that handles relief. The Misirs' coin-operated laundry in Punta Gorda was wrecked, along with a rental property nearby. The roof on their home was damaged and carrying a heavy load of standing water. Both cars were scratched. 
 ''Have you talked to your insurance company?'' Ms. Stewart asked. 
 When Mr. Misir asked if he could use a phone to contact his two insurers, Ms. Stewart pointed across the basketball court. ''We have a row of them over there,'' she said. ''But we have no phone lines.'' 
 People who have lost power, water and roofs -- as well as emergency experts across the country -- will be closely gauging the agency's performance in the days ahead. In part, they are comparing the response to that after Hurricane Andrew, 12 years ago. 
 But Hurricane Charley is also the Federal Emergency Management Agency's biggest challenge since the agency was made part of the Department of Homeland Security on the theory that the imminent threat to the nation was terrorism, and not what insurance agents here call an act of God.
 James Lee Witt, who was the agency's director under President Bill Clinton, testified in March before a House Government Reform subcommittee that ''FEMA, having lost its status as an independent agency, is being buried beneath a massive bureaucracy whose main and only focus is fighting terrorism.'' It should be ''extracted,'' Mr. Witt said. 
 The Bush administration's proposed budget for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 includes sharp reductions in financing for urban search and rescue teams, several of which have been used in Florida in the last few days to look for bodies in the wreckage, and cuts in grants to state emergency management programs.
 For most people here, the agency is indistinguishable from others responding to the hurricane. And the immediate problems for many people remain in basic services: electricity, telephones and water, and debris removal from the street. 
 FEMA was established in 1979, and in its early years it was largely limited to writing checks to disaster victims. Under Mr. Witt, it acquired more operational capabilities. By the time of Hurricane Charley's approach, it had begun moving emergency supplies from pre-established depots toward the threatened area. 
 Some observers fear that the agency has lost some clout; under President Clinton, for example, the director was a cabinet member; now he reports to a member of the cabinet. 
 Mr. Witt said in a telephone interview on Monday that it would be inappropriate to critique the agency in the midst of a disaster response, and that he continued to be impressed with the capabilities and dedication of its employees. 
 Michael D. Brown, the current director, has said he has access to the president and the heads of other federal agencies. 
 But at a conference in Orlando in April on hurricane preparedness, at which Mr. Witt was a speaker, Mr. Brown introduced him with an impromptu line about listening very carefully to what Mr. Witt had to say, and Mr. Witt voiced his misgivings about domestic security. Some attendees interpreted their comments combined as Mr. Brown's endorsement of his predecessor's concerns. 
 The latest disaster commands a high profile, and thus is likely to command the full attention of the Bush administration, some disaster experts say. ''And it's in the middle of an election,'' Mr. Witt observed.
 For the Misir family, help was across the basketball court. Under one hoop, Julie Sills, wearing a bright green T-shirt that said, ''Florida Department of Financial Services,'' took down all of the family's information on a battery-powered laptop computer. Later, the state will bring in a satellite dish, Ms. Sills said, and upload the information directly to the insurance companies. In the parking lot, people could apply for unemployment insurance payments at a mobile office. 
 In this smashed city, it was a start, but a sweltering one. Ms. Stewart, the Small Business Administration official, had arrived in Florida at 1 a.m. Monday, coming direct from Ohio, where she had been helping handle applications for aid after flooding there in May. She said she would be happy to see the Misirs again, if they returned. But she said, fanning herself with an emergency brochure, ''I don't know why you'd want to.'' Ms. Misir carried a dish towel that she used alternately to fan her face and mop it. 
 Finding the center is a challenge for some, since most street signs are gone. FEMA brought in the type of flashing highway signs that might advise, ''Left Lane Closed Ahead.'' Instead, one said, ''FEMA at Harold Ctr.'' 
 Lea Anne McBride, a spokeswoman from the agency's Washington headquarters, said this disaster center was being opened a mere 48 hours after the declaration of an emergency.
 Jay M. Eaker, a spokesman for the agency, said that many more disaster relief centers would open soon, each with 50 or 60 representatives of government agencies to offer one-stop-shopping assistance. ''Give us a couple of days, and it will be smooth as silk,'' Mr. Eaker said.

Hurricane Aid

TO DONATE through the Red Cross: 1-800-HELPNOW (800-435-7669)
FOR INFORMATION on victims: 866-GET-INFO (866-438-4636) American Red Cross
FOR DONATIONS in state: 800-FL-HELP-1 (800-354-3571) Volunteer Florida, the state's agency for emergency support


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ann Schubert, whose house was badly damaged, struggled to listen to Dennis Hailey of Allstate Insurance at a mobile center in Punta Gorda. (Photo by Chris Livingston/European Pressphoto Agency)
 Part of a recreation center has been converted into a one-stop relief office for residents of Port Charlotte. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (91%); DISASTER RELIEF (91%); INSURANCE (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); WEATHER (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (86%); TERRORISM (85%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); TESTIMONY (71%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); BASKETBALL (66%); RENTAL PROPERTY (53%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Charley (Storm); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Terrorism; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%) Federal Emergency Management Agency; Homeland Security Department

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%) Matthew L Wald; George W (Pres) Bush; James Lee Witt; Michael D Brown; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Florida; Port Charlotte (Fla); United States

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



408 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Venezuelan President Survives Recall Vote
Venezuelans voted overwhelmingly to keep President Hugo Chavez in power in a recall referendum, electoral authorities and international monitors said, but a strident opposition movement refused to accept the results, raising prospects for more turmoil in the world's fifth-largest oil exporter. A1

Iraqi Delegates to Go to Najaf
A conference of Iraqis gathering in Baghdad to form a national assembly decided to send a delegation to the southern city of Najaf to ask Moktada al-Sadr, the Shiite cleric whose fighters have been fighting American forces there, to disarm his militia, leave the holy shrine where his fighters have been based and join the political process. A10

Micah Garen, an American journalist who was investigating the looting of ancient artifacts in Iraq, was missing along with his Iraqi translator on Friday after the two were led away from a shop at gunpoint in the southern city of Nasiriya, according to news reports and the men's families. A10

The Halliburton Company said the United States Army had granted it additional time to substantiate its costs in Iraq and Kuwait, staving off the threat of having 15 percent of its reimbursement withheld, but the Army would not immediately confirm that it had given the company a third extension. A10

Bush Announces Troop Shift
President Bush said the Pentagon would withdraw 60,000 to 70,000 troops from Europe and Asia during the next decade in the biggest realignment of the United States military since the end of the cold war. A6

Americans' Trial in Afghanistan
Three Americans on trial on charges that they ran a vigilante jail and interrogation operation in Afghanistan accused the F.B.I. of removing evidence needed for their defense. They were given a seven-day extension to prepare after the agency returned the evidence. A11

NATIONAL A12-19

Charter School Findings Reveal Low Scores
The first national comparison of test scores among children in charter schools and regular public schools shows charter school students often do worse than comparable students in regular public schools. The data show fourth graders attending charter schools perform about half a year behind students in other public schools in both reading and math. A1

Hurricane Recovery Continues
In the small Florida towns hit by Hurricane Charley, people are left with the dismal realization that weeks, even months, may pass before they can resume even a bit of normality. More than 600,000 customers remained without electricity, and many also lacked phone service, even as hundreds of crews hustled to restore battered power lines. A1

Hurricane Charley ripped through some of the nation's richest agricultural land, inflicting hundreds of millions of dollars in damage to Florida's second largest industry after tourism. The hurricane uprooted orange and grapefruit trees, shattered greenhouses and smashed barns, tractors and fences on farms and cattle ranches. A16

Shift In Screening System
Homeland Security officials said that they planned to begin screening airline passengers against a list of potential terror suspects, taking over a responsibility now fulfilled by the airlines. A14

Voucher Program Contested
A Florida appeals court ruled that a voucher program for students in failing schools violates the state's constitution because it sends public money to religious institutions. A15

Climate Shift Poses Threat
A scientific study released presents an alarming view of climate changes in California, finding that by the end of the century warming temperatures could lead to a sevenfold increase in heat-related deaths in Los Angeles and imperil the state's wine and dairy industries. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Hopes of Economic Boost Lower as Convention Nears
With the Republican National Convention just two weeks away, signs are pointing to a modest economic boost for a handful of businesses in New York City. A1

The protesters coming to New York are receiving an outpouring of hospitality from scores of people who are opening their homes as temporary, free shelter. B1

Politicians Under Pressure
New Jersey Democrats want Senator Jon S. Corzine to intervene in the state's political crisis and run for governor, while Washington Democrats are reminding him of his commitment to lead the party's campaign to retake the United States Senate. A1

In Trenton, pressure grew on Governor McGreevey to resign immediately. B6

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B8

ARTS E1-8

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-12

Thorpe Golden Again
Ian Thorpe, the hometown hero of the 2000 Sydney Olympics, betrayed no emotion walking to the starting block of the 200-meter freestyle final, and without hurrying his smooth swimming stroke, he caught and passed his nemesis, Pieter van den Hoogenband of the Netherlands, in the final half-lap to win a gold medal denied him four years ago in Sydney. It was his second victory in the first three days, to go with one in the 400 freestyle. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Google Seeks to End Bidding
Google said it might conclude the bidding in its auction-style initial public offering late today, moving it one step away from becoming a publicly traded company. The company formally asked the Securities and Exchange Commission for clearance to begin selling its shares, indicating that the company is moving ahead despite speculation that the offering could be postponed. C1

Oil Prices Fall After Vote
Oil prices retreated from record highs after President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela claimed victory in a referendum on his rule, easing concerns about possible disruptions in the country's oil exports. C1

S.U.V. Safety Data Worsens
The gap in safety between sport utility vehicles and passenger cars last year was the widest yet recorded, according to new federal traffic data. People driving or riding in a sport utility vehicle in 2003 were nearly 11 percent more likely to die in an accident than people in cars. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES B7

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Interrogating the protesters; misconceived military shuffle; in-house advice.

Columns: Paul Krugman.

Crossword E6
Public Lives B2
TV Listings E7
Weather D12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); HURRICANES (88%); EVIDENCE (86%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); COLD WAR (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (60%); TROPICAL STORMS (60%); CITRUS GROVES (60%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (69%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (69%); ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (69%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (69%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (69%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (69%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



409 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; CAMPAIGN BRIEFING: THE DEMOCRATS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: EDWARDS FOCUSES ON RURAL AREAS

BYLINE: By Thomas Crampton (NYT)

 BODY:
Senator John Edwards yesterday unveiled several initiatives focusing on the economic and social problems of rural areas. Speaking to a backyard gathering in the farming community of Willard, Mo., above, Mr. Edwards said a Kerry-Edwards administration would work to bring venture capital to small towns with a $1 billion initiative over four years that would help finance small businesses and double financing for a program that helps small and midsize manufacturers adopt new technologies. In addition, he called for full financing for a federal program that provides for the hiring of law enforcement officers to combat the increasing production of methamphetamines, and he promoted further extension of broadband Internet into rural areas. ''There are many places in rural India where Internet makes it easier for an international business to do business than in rural Missouri,'' he said. Mr. Edwards, who was raised in small towns in the Carolinas, is seen by the Kerry campaign as potentially bolstering the ticket in rural areas. Thomas Crampton (NYT)


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (84%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (84%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (54%); METHAMPHETAMINE (53%); BROADBAND (53%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Rural Areas

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%) Thomas Crampton; John (Sen) Edwards; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Missouri

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



410 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Front-Porch Chat: Birth of a Kerry Campaign Tactic

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN; Thomas Crampton contributed reporting from Flint, Mich., for this article, and Rick Lyman from Raleigh, N.C.

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Ore., Aug. 13 

 BODY:
For every porch picked, there are those passed over.
 On Friday morning here in this quintessential suburban neighborhood, such was the plight of Shannon Imponen, who was eager to share her struggle to pay for emergency post-partum health care with Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential nominee. Ms. Imponen, 24, had instantly agreed when Mr. Kerry's aides knocked late Wednesday afternoon asking to borrow her backyard for an event just 40 hours in the future; she even said they could chop down a couple of trees to improve the view.
 But after asking how the sun falls and canvassing Ms. Imponen's neighbors on A Street, a campaign worker called Thursday morning to say no thanks. ''She said there were too many registered Republicans,'' sighed the would-have-been hostess. 
 That left Claire Kronser frantically weeding at 6 a.m. a few blocks away on the E Street cul-de-sac. Having just returned from a camping trip, the Kronsers still had sleeping bags on the front railing when the panicked call came Wednesday afternoon from a woman who sits on the local labor council with Ms. Kronser's husband, Jeff, who is president of the local firefighters union.
 ''She's like, 'They're coming and they need a front porch and they need one in Springfield' -- she was stressed out about finding someone so last-minute,'' recalled Ms. Kronser, an art teacher. ''She was giving me this list of requirements and I just started giggling because it was describing our house perfectly.''
 So goes the back story of the Kerry campaign's newest signature, the ''front porch visit'' -- though the porch is optional. Mr. Kerry and his running mate, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, have held 10 such homespun events, in middle-class neighborhoods across Iowa, Florida, Michigan, Minnesota, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania and here in Oregon since stumbling across the form in mid-June.
 The low-key, invitation-only events, where perhaps 100 people sit around red-checked picnic tables, raising hands with questions rather than waving signs with slogans, mimic the town-hall style campaigning for the Iowa caucuses at which both Mr. Kerry and Mr. Edwards excelled. For Mr. Kerry, porch visits follow the chili feeds he held at firehouses all over New Hampshire and Iowa.
 The first one happened almost by accident. Before a rally at a park in Columbus, Ohio, Mr. Kerry's aides sent him to the home of Loretta Farmer, thinking it would be a good image for them to walk together to the event. They chatted on Ms. Farmer's porch, and a gimmick was born. 
 Situated mainly in swing states, the visits are intended to emphasize the Democrats' kitchen-table economic appeal -- light on partisanship, laden with ''we're here for you.''
 ''It came from the idea that middle-class families really are at the heart of the campaign,'' explained Tad Devine, a senior strategist for the Kerry campaign. ''It's a real-life setting, and families can gather there and allow Edwards and Kerry to talk to them about real-life issues. We want to get close to where people really are.''
 Bill Carrick, a Democratic consultant unaffiliated with the Kerry campaign, said the folksy setting helped the presidential contender compensate for his blueblood background.
 ''They're doing a good job at putting settings that do not portray him as an elitist,'' Mr. Carrick observed. ''These front-porch settings give people a sense of traditional values. They have a nostalgic feel to them.''
 Stephanie Cutter, communications director for the campaign, said that campaign workers in individual states identify appropriate neighborhoods and then, talking to community leaders, scour the streets for compelling stories. Ms. Imponen, for example, was nominated by Gloria Griffith, who works in the Springfield school system and got a call Monday night saying the campaign was seeking sympathetic families.
 Matthew Ruesch, the advance man who Ms. Imponen and Ms. Kronser said identified their homes, did not answer several telephone messages. Despite what Ms. Imponen said she was told about what disqualified her, Ms. Cutter said, ''We don't vet the neighborhood.''
 In Columbus, last month, the campaign chose a cul-de-sac seemingly assembled to appeal to its constituency -- a Hispanic family living next to a single mother next to a black couple next to a military veteran next to a laid-off worker, with a foreclosed home in between.
 Janet Aikens, the hostess of that event, was painting her front door fire-engine red when her husband, who had been cutting low branches off a tree, beckoned her to see what the two men who had been sitting at the foot of the street in a black van wanted.
 ''He thought they were trying to sell him something,'' said Ms. Aikens, 57, who works in a nursing home and has lived on the block for 18 years. Instead, they were Kerry campaign workers. One of them, Ms. Aikens recalled, ''said, 'I like the way your house sits.' He just liked the neatness of the house.'' 
 So Ms. Aikens applied polyurethane to the front door, set out some artificial flowers to replace the begonias eaten by a caterpillar, hung a flag on the mailbox and, a few days later, held a block party on national television. ''Now I know how people feel when they win the Lotto,'' she said.
 Not all these events go off as smoothly. Mr. Edwards, who has visited the front porches of the mayor of Raleigh, N.C., and of hog farmers in Belle Plaine, Minn., found himself on Friday on a lawn chair in front of a porchless house in Flint, Mich., leading a discussion that could barely be heard over the makeshift sound system. He was learning about the problems the house's occupant, Philip Oliver Phelps, was having paying for college and about the troubles of his laid-off neighbors, but a light drizzle began before Mr. Edwards could say how he would help.
 ''Give me two more minutes,'' Mr. Edwards pleaded as the rain grew strong. ''Y'all aren't too wet yet.''
 Here in Springfield, Ms. Kronser hung up the phone Wednesday afternoon and ran to pull the 10 tallest weeds from her front yard, sending her children, Natalie, 9, and Andrew, 8, to grab the musty sleeping bags from the porch. Four or five Kerry workers showed up within the hour, asking neighbors' names so the Secret Service could run background checks, Ms. Kronser said. On Thursday, a security guard stayed overnight to watch the trucks loaded with sound equipment. 
 On Friday, Ms. Kronser rose at 4:30 a.m., shortly before the sound-checks. ''It was like the day before Christmas when you're a kid,'' she said. ''You can't sleep and you can't explain it.'' 
 When Jeff said he would be wearing his gold ''Firefighters for Kerry'' T-shirt, Ms. Kronser put on white and went to the neighbors to borrow yellow clothing for the children, then ironed it all. ''I wanted to have the matching little American family thing,'' she said.
 The campaign's technology expert used the Kronsers' cable modem to turn the cul-de-sac into a wireless Internet hotspot. The next-door neighbor loaned her driveway and, later, her bathroom to the traveling press throng. The picture-perfect porch went unused because it is blocked by a dogwood. Instead, Mr. Kerry strode around the cul-de-sac. But this was not the usual block party; the entire event was shown live on the local news.
 ''Thank you for coming,'' Mr. Kerry said when he arrived, about a half-hour late. ''This is not your normal, what is it, 9:30-in-the-morning gathering at the Kronsers.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 18, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about Senator John Kerry's practice of holding ''front porch visits'' with voters misstated the given name of an Ohio woman whose porch was the setting, in June, for the first such visit. She is Lynette, not Loretta, Farmer. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shannon Imponen of Springfield, Ore., was almost picked to hold a front-porch visit by Senator John Kerry. (Photo by John Klicker for The New York Times)
 Mr. Kerry instead worked a cul-de-sac just a few blocks away. The Kerry campaign has made such events a signature activity this summer. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); SUBURBS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAMPING (72%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (51%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%) Thomas Crampton; Rick Lyman; Jodi Wilgoren; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (52%) IOWA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



411 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: While Some Brand Mayor as Conservatives' Pawn, Others See Free-Spending Liberal

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
For months, the Republican National Convention has caused headaches for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, as left-leaning groups accused him of being a tool of conservatives wanting to suppress demonstrations against President Bush's policies.
 Now, the mayor is also taking fire from Libertarians, who are using the occasion to paint Mr. Bloomberg, a former Democrat who is rarely mistaken for a right-wing Republican, as a tax-and-spend liberal.
 ''New York City's Republican Mayor Michael Bloomberg will speak at the G.O.P. convention at Madison Square Garden, but it is unlikely he will talk about the benefits of tax cuts,'' the Cato Institute, a libertarian policy research group based in Washington, said in a statement being released today. 
 ''While the nation enjoyed the largest tax cut in more than two decades, Bloomberg has given New Yorkers a series of large tax hikes,'' the group said. ''He has not reformed the city's bloated spending, and higher taxes have simply fueled a larger budget.'' 
 The criticism accompanies the institute's release of a report on the Bloomberg administration's fiscal policies, prepared by Raymond J. Keating, an economist from Long Island who is a frequent critic of the budget process in City Hall and in Albany. Mr. Keating argues that city government spends and taxes too much, and has given away the store to municipal labor unions.
 Mr. Keating said the institute saw an opportunity, with the convention set to begin Aug. 30, to spread its message of free-market solutions to government problems.
 ''The timing, in part, is because of my own inability to get the report done earlier,'' he said. ''Once it got done, the obvious hook was to release it about now, as the Republican convention approaches.''
 Edward Skyler, a spokesman for the mayor, defended the administration's policies, saying the city's $47 billion budget is driven up by ''nondiscretionary costs,'' like increases for Medicaid and employee pensions, that are largely beyond the control of City Hall. He said Mr. Bloomberg was forced to raise property taxes 18.5 percent to balance the budget, but that some of that would be returned to homeowners through a $400 property tax rebate this fall.
 ''Mayor Bloomberg led New York through the worst fiscal crisis in a generation by cutting $3 billion from the budget and reducing the city's head count by 18,000 employees,'' Mr. Skyler said.
 The Cato Institute, whose policy analyses tend to focus on national issues, dove in to New York City's budget from a rigorously small-government, low-tax perspective. While many of its findings are not new -- many studies have concluded that raising taxes will not solve all of the city's budget problems -- the institute went further than most New York-based groups in bluntly advocating controversial spending cuts.
 Taking aim at New York politicians, the report said the city could save money by ''downsizing the political class,'' citing, among other things, the $90,000-a-year salaries of the 51 City Council members and what it called the ''many unnecessary commissions'' that govern everything from taxis to women's issues.
 ''The political class lives very well at the expense of New York taxpayers,'' the report said. ''The city should eliminate the positions of borough president and public advocate. Community boards and numerous commissions should be eliminated. City Council salaries should be cut.''
 The report said that the city should turn over some of its sanitation and correction functions to private hands, and that the mayor should take advantage of the expiration of numerous labor contracts to push changes that would reduce pensions and overtime spending, and require employees to work longer hours. The mayor has succeeded in making some pay raises contingent on increased worker productivity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PRISON PRIVATIZATION (74%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); OVERTIME (69%); MEDICAID (69%); LABOR UNIONS (64%) Taxation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Government Employees; Privatization; Prisons and Prisoners; Taxation; Overtime; Government Employees; Politics and Government; City Councils; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Working Hours

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (83%) Cato Institute

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Mike Mcintire; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Raymond J Keating

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004



412 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Oil Hits Another Record After U.S. Economic News
Crude oil prices rose to an intraday record of $46.95 a barrel in New York as strengthening United States economic figures raised concern that production capacity may not be adequate to meet global demand.
 Prices have surged 44 percent in New York this year on concern that demand will not be met because of supply disruptions in exporting countries. [Page C7.]

Stocks ended higher even as oil prices reached another record. The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 18.28 points, at 9,972.83, while the Nasdaq composite index closed 12.41 points higher, at 1,795.25. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 2.37 points to close at 1,081.71. [C7.]

A Russian court turned down two crucial appeals by the country's largest oil producer, Yukos. [World Business, Section W.]

Costco Is Accused of Sex Bias
A Costco worker filed a national class-action lawsuit against the company, accusing it of discriminating against women in promotions to the position of store manager. [C3.]

Boxing Programs Head to Court
Producers of the NBC boxing reality series ''The Contender'' went to court to prevent the Fox network from broadcasting its version, called ''The Next Great Champ.'' [C3.]

Profit at Home Depot Rises 19%
Home Depot, buoyed by robust sales, posted a nearly 19 percent jump in second-quarter profit and raised its earnings outlook for 2004. The results beat Wall Street expectations and sent the company's shares higher. Home Depot, the nation's largest home improvement store chain, said it earned $1.55 billion, or 70 cents a share, in the three months ended Aug. 1, up from $1.30 billion, or 56 cents a share, in the same period a year earlier. [C4.]

Saks Inc. said that its second-quarter loss widened to $28.9 million. [C4.]

Borders Group, the bookstore chain, said second-quarter earnings rose 89 percent, helped by sales of former President Bill Clinton's memoir. [C5.]

Mutual Funds Opt to Liquidate
Some of the nation's more than 8,000 mutual funds are shutting their doors, as their managers confront a lackluster stock market, greater scrutiny from regulators and higher costs. Market Place. [C2.]

UAL Pension Overseer to Be Named
A legal overseer will be appointed to represent participants in United Airlines' pension plans now that the company has halted contributions, the Labor Department said. [C5.]

Financier Wins Coal Mining Assets
A group led by the financier Wilbur L. Ross won the bidding for the assets of a bankrupt coal mining company, Horizon Natural Resources. The bid is subject to bankruptcy court approval. [C7.]

Financial Firms Hasten Outsourcing
Many financial institutions, including banks, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment firms and credit card companies, are sending work to offshore locations, at a scorching speed. [World Business, Section W.]

New Life for Sydney Olympic Site
Four years after Sydney's Summer Olympics, the landmark stadium carries the name of Telstra, Australia's largest telephone company. With the stadium's 83,500 seats now selling out for rugby matches and with nearby developments catering to travelers, Sydney Olympic Park is showing that there is economic life after the fireworks of a two-week Olympics. [World Business, Section W.]

Revitalizing Downtown Darien
Two developments in Darien, Conn., are providing the first new apartments and major businesses in the downtown area in decades. Commercial Real Estate. [C5.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 9,972.83 up 18.28Nasdaq composite -- 1,795.25 up 12.4110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.19% down 0.07The euro -- $1.2344 down 0.0011The dollar -- 110.02 yen down 0.51Graph tracks share prices of Home Depot for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); HOME CENTERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (87%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); NATURAL RESOURCES (79%); LIQUIDATIONS (79%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); OIL EXTRACTION (79%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); OUTSOURCING (72%); INSURANCE (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); NETWORK TELEVISION (71%); BOXING (71%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (69%); BUSINESS TORTS (68%); COMPANY LOSSES (68%); LITIGATION (68%); CLASS ACTIONS (68%); SEX OFFENSES (68%); GENDER EQUALITY (68%); BOOKSTORES (67%); REALITY TELEVISION (66%); MINES & MINING (62%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); COAL MINING (60%); APPROVALS (60%); EXPORT TRADE (56%); CREDIT CARDS (50%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (95%); BORDERS GROUP INC (81%); SAKS INC (64%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); OAO NK YUKOS (56%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%); SKS (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (81%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (81%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (64%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



413 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: STUDENT SCORES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Education Secretary Defends Charter Schools

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 17 

 BODY:
The federal secretary of education issued a statement Tuesday saying he stood by charter schools and challenged the conclusion of recent test data that their performance largely trailed that of regular public schools.
 The results of the National Assessment of Educational Progress, reported in The New York Times on Tuesday, were extracted by researchers at the American Federation of Teachers from reams of data the Education Department released in November without public announcement. It was the first national comparison of test scores between students in charter schools and those in regular public schools. 
 In the statement, Education Secretary Rod Paige took issue with the article.
 ''The Times made no distinction between students falling behind and students climbing out of the hole in which they found themselves,'' Mr. Paige said.
 ''It is wrong to think of charter schools as a monolith,'' he added. ''There are schools for dropouts, schools for students who've been expelled, schools serving the most economically disadvantaged families. Charters are as diverse as the children they educate.''
 Mr. Paige declined to address questions directly.
 Charters are self-governing public schools, sometimes run by private companies, which operate outside the authority of local school boards. 
 The Bush administration has strongly supported charters, running a special Web site promoting them and earmarking about $220 million for them this year.
 The data showed that fourth graders at charter schools were about a half year behind students in other public schools in reading and math. Since most children attending charter schools are from poor areas, researchers looked at low-income students in both settings and still found those in charters doing significantly worse. 
 The secretary's reaction prompted surprise from Darvin Winnick, chairman of the National Assessment Governing Board, which oversees the national test for the federal government. Mr. Winnick said that while he would interpret the scores with caution, he did not see much cause for arguing with the outcomes themselves.
 ''The data is probably what it is,'' Mr. Winnick said. ''N.A.E.P. is pretty accurate. There shouldn't be any question about the results.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARTER SCHOOLS (95%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); POOR POPULATION (75%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); FAMILY (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%) Education and Schools; Charter Schools ; Tests and Testing

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (57%) Education Department (US)

PERSON: Roderick R (Sec) Paige; Diana Jean Schemo

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



414 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Price Index Dipped a Bit Last Month

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 17 

 BODY:
Consumer prices declined slightly in July, pulled down by an incongruous drop in gasoline prices and by lower prices in other less volatile areas, suggesting that inflation may be slowing, the government reported on Tuesday.
 Though gasoline prices are likely to rise because of the surge in crude oil prices, analysts attached greater significance to the fact that the ''core'' rate of inflation, which excludes food and energy prices, climbed only slightly for the second consecutive month.
 The Consumer Price Index dropped 0.1 percent in July, the first decline in eight months. While gasoline prices plunged 4.2 percent despite crude oil prices that were soaring to records, the relief will most likely be short-lived. But excluding food and energy, consumer prices climbed 0.1 percent for the second consecutive month and were 1.8 percent higher than they were a year earlier. 
 That pace is slower than earlier this year, and it is lower than the Federal Reserve's unofficial goal of keeping the core inflation rate below 2 percent.
 Some analysts speculated on Tuesday that the new inflation data would allow the Fed to take a pause in its rate-raising campaign when policy makers meet next month. The Fed raised its benchmark rate on overnight loans between banks by one-quarter of a percentage point on June 30 and again last week, and officials have made it clear they intend to keep raising rates at a ''measured'' pace over the next year or so.
 ''I think the odds are a lot lower that they will raise rates in September,'' said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial in Pittsburgh. ''This good inflation report gives them more breathing room to stand pat. They can watch and wait.''
 But Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has studiously avoided reacting to a single month's performance. He and other top officials contended earlier this year that a surge in consumer prices was largely ''transitory,'' and they have also said that the economic slowdown that took hold in June would prove to be a temporary ''soft patch.''
 The Fed's consistent theme has been that interest rates, which are at 1.5 percent, need to climb to higher levels because economic growth is now ''self-sustaining'' and that today's abnormally low borrowing costs would, if left unchanged, eventually ignite inflation.
 Two other government reports on Tuesday provided some evidence that the lull in growth could be mild. The Fed estimated that industrial production climbed 0.4 percent in July and revised its estimate for June to show a decline of 0.5 percent instead of 0.3 percent. Though slightly lower than many economists had predicted, the numbers suggested that factory output resumed its climb.
 Meanwhile, the Commerce Department reported that housing starts climbed 8.3 percent in July. The housing industry is widely expected to slow as interest rates go higher, but construction has barely slowed thus far.
 Taken together, the new data offered a mixed view of inflation and economic growth.
 Consumer prices have climbed 4.1 percent this year on a seasonally adjusted basis, the Labor Department reported on Tuesday, and hourly wages have not kept pace. After adjusting for inflation, weekly wages are lower than they were a year ago.
 Nevertheless prices climbed much more slowly in July, and not only because of a drop in gasoline prices. Housing costs, one of the biggest components of the Consumer Price Index, climbed 0.2 percent in July, slightly less than the month before. Clothing prices declined 0.8 percent, as did transportation costs. Prices for recreation and telecommunications dropped as well, though costs for medical care and food climbed modestly.
 ''You don't see the spillover from higher oil prices,'' said Diane Swonk, chief economist at the Bank One Corporation. ''It's really pretty reassuring to see how well we have absorbed these inflated oil prices.''
 Dean Baker, chief economist at the Center for Economic Policy Research, a liberal research organization in Washington, said the most significant signs of lower inflation were in housing costs, and he predicted that high vacancy rates would keep rental rates from rising.
 But Mr. Baker said that much of the apparent moderation in other prices would prove temporary. Car prices declined in July, but that reflected aggressive discounting by manufacturers to reduce inventories.
 Oil prices are the biggest wild card, affecting both consumer prices and inflation. Most analysts think that rising oil prices played a significant role in slowing consumer spending and overall economic growth.
 That poses a difficult challenge for Mr. Greenspan and the Fed. To the extent that high oil prices threaten economic growth and employment, the Fed might be tempted to offset the effect by keeping interest rates low. But interest rates are already so far below normal that Fed officials would risk fueling inflation on top of the effects of high oil prices.
 ''Higher oil prices make the Fed's job more difficult by both raising inflation and depressing output,'' wrote Jan Hatzius, an economist at Goldman Sachs, in a research note on Tuesday. ''In most circumstances, an oil price shock should result in higher, not lower, interest rates.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Consumer Prices''Monthly change in the average price for all goods across the United States, seasonally adjusted.Graph tracks change in consumer prices since July 2002.July 2004: -0.1%(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Housing Construction''New private housing started and permits authorized during the month, in millions, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.JulyStarts: 1.978Permits: 2.055Graph tracks permits and starts since February 2003.(Source by Commerce Department)(pg. C2)Chart: ''Capacity Utilization''Total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted.Operating RatesJuly: 77.1%June: 76.9May: 77.4Graph tracks total output since February 2003.(Source by Federal Reserve)(pg. C2)Chart: ''Industrial Production''Index of total industrial production, 1997=100, seasonally adjusted.July: +0.4%June: -0.5May: +0.9(Source by Federal Reserve)(pg. C2)Chart: ''Consumer Prices''U.S. and Major Metropolitan AreasNot seasonally adjustedPercent change from previous:U.S.MONTH: -0.2YEAR: +3.0New YorkMONTH: -0.2YEAR: +3.9Los AngelesMONTH: -0.2YEAR: +3.8ChicagoMONTH: +0.1YEAR: +2.8Boston*MONTH: +0.1YEAR: +2.9Dallas*MONTH: Unch.YEAR: +1.5Detroit* (June)MONTH: +0.6YEAR: +1.6Houston* (June)MONTH: -0.2YEAR: +4.2Philadelphia* (June)MONTH: +1.6YEAR: +4.4San Francisco* (June)MONTH: +0.4YEAR: +1.4Washington*MONTH: +1.1YEAR: +2.9*Calculated bimonthly. Figures are for July, except as noted.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); INFLATION (92%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); PRICE CHANGES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (85%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STATISTICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%) United States Economy; Consumer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production; Housing; Housing Starts; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Labor Department (US); Federal Reserve System; Commerce Department

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



415 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Financial Firms Hasten Their Move to Outsourcing

BYLINE: By SARITHA RAI

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
Last February, when the online lending company E-Loan wanted to provide its customers faster and more affordable loans, it began a program in India. Since then, 87 percent of E-Loan's customers have chosen to have their loans financed two days faster by having their applications processed in India.
 ''Offshoring is not just a fad, but the reality of doing business today,'' said Chris Larsen, chairman and chief executive of E-Loan, ''and this is really just the beginning.'' 
 Indeed, seemingly a myriad of financial institutions including banks, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment firms and credit-card companies are sending work to overseas locations, at a scorching speed. 
 From 2003 to 2004, Deloitte Research found in a survey of 43 financial institutions in 7 countries, including 13 of the top 25 by market capitalization, financial institutions in North America and Europe increased jobs offshore to an average of 1,500 each from an average of 300. The Deloitte study said that about 80 percent of this went to India. 
 Deloitte said the unexpectedly rapid growth rate for offshore outsourcing showed no signs of abating, despite negative publicity about job losses. Although information technology remains the dominant service, financial firms are expanding into other areas like insurance claims processing, mortgage applications, equity research and accounting. 
 ''Offshoring has created a truly global operating model for financial services, unleashing a new and potent competitive dynamic that is changing the rules of the game for the entire industry,'' the report said.
 Michael Haney, a senior analyst at research firm, Celent Communications, said: ''With its vast English-speaking, technically well-trained labor pool and its low-cost advantages, India is one of the few countries that can handle the level of offshoring that U.S. financial companies want to scale to.'' . 
 In a recent report ''Offshoring, A Detour Along the Automation Highway,'' Mr. Haney estimated that potentially 2.3 million American jobs in the banking and securities industries could be lost to outsourcing abroad.
 Girish S. Paranjpe, president for financial solutions at Wipro, a large outsourcing company in India, said, ''Pent-up demand, recent regulatory changes and technology upgrade requirements are all making global financial institutions increase their outsourcing budgets.'' His company's customers include J.P. Morgan Chase, for which it is building systems for measuring operational risk, and Aviva and Prudential, the British insurers.
 Several recent studies concur that there has been an unexpected and large shift of work since the outsourcing pioneer Citigroup set up a company in India two decades ago. They cite cost advantages as the primary reason. According to Celent, in 2003 the average M.B.A. working in the financial services industry in India, where the cost of living is about 30 percent less than in the United States, earned 14 percent of his American counterpart's wages. Information technology professionals earned 13 percent, while call center workers who provide customer support and telemarketing services earned 7 percent of their American counterparts' salaries. 
 Experts say that with China, India, the former Soviet Union and other nations embracing free trade and capitalism, there is a population 10 times that of the United States with average wage advantages of 85 percent to 95 percent.
 ''There has never been an economic discontinuity of this magnitude in the history of the world,'' said Mark Gottfredson, co-head of the consulting firm Bain & Company's global capability sourcing practice. ''These powerful forces are allowing companies to rethink their sourcing strategies across the entire value chain.'' 
 A study by India's software industry trade body, the National Association of Software and Services Companies, or Nasscom, estimated that United States banks, financial services and insurance companies have saved $6 billion in the last four years by offshoring to India. 
 But cheap labor is not the only reason for outsourcing. Global financial institutions are moving work overseas to spread risks and to offer their customers service 24 hours a day.
 ''Financial institutions are achieving accelerated speed to market, and quality and productivity gains in outsourcing to India,'' said Anil Kumar, senior vice president for banking and financial services at Satyam Computer Services, a software and services firm. Satyam works with 10 of the top global capital markets firms on Wall Street.
 Mastek, an outsourcing company based in Mumbai, is another example. Two years ago, Mastek turned from doing diverse types of offshore work to specializing in financial services. The results are already showing. In the year ended in June, 42 percent of Mastek's revenues, $89.28 million, came from offering software and back-office services to financial services firms, up from 22 percent last June. 
 Fidelity Investments, the world's largest mutual fund manager, started outsourcing to Mastek 18 months ago and is now among the top five clients in its roster. 
 Sudhakar Ram, chief executive of Mastek, said, ''It is rare that within a year a new customer turns a top customer; this illustrates the momentum in the market.'' 
 Another Mastek customer, the CUNA Mutual Group, which is based in Madison, Wis., and is part of the Credit Union National Association, started a project billed at less than $100,000 two years ago. Now the applications that Mastek is building for CUNA, to handle disability claims, amount to a multimillion-dollar deal. 
 In the transaction-intensive financial services industry, offshoring of high-labor back-office tasks is becoming the norm. 
 ICICI OneSource, based in Mumbai, has added 2,100 employees in six months and signed on four new financial services clients, including the London-based bank Lloyd's TSB, for which it provides customer service. 
 In one year from March 2003 to March 2004, ICICI OneSource grew to $42 million in revenues from $17 million. Today, more than 70 percent of its revenues come from the financial services industry, up from 40 percent two years ago. 
 For India's outsourcing firms, growth has not been without hiccups. Earlier this year, Capital One canceled a telemarketing contract with India's biggest call center company, Spectramind, owned by Wipro, after some workers were charged with enticing the credit-card company's customers with unauthorized free gifts. Weeks earlier, the investment bank Lehman Brothers canceled a contract with Wipro saying it was dissatisfied with its workers' training. 
 In response, outsourcing companies are improving their offerings. Leading companies are investing in privacy and security due diligence as they handle sensitive customer data, doing reference checks on employees, providing secure physical environments with cameras, and banning employees from using cellphones and other gadgetry on the work floor. 
 Deloitte forecasts that by the year 2010, the 100 largest global financial institutions will move $400 billion of their work offshore for $150 billion in annual savings. Its survey forecasts that more than 20 percent of the financial industry's global cost base will have gone offshore in that period. 
 With competence levels rising, Indian companies are tackling more complex tasks. DSL Software, a joint venture of Deutsche Bank and HCL Technologies, a software company, is handling intricate jobs for the securities processing industry. ''Indian firms are taking offshoring to the next level; in the banking industry for instance, they are getting into wholesale banking, trade finance and larger loan processing type tasks,'' said Mr. Haney, the analyst from Celent. 
 But the relentless demand for skilled workers is putting pressure on wage rates, narrowing the wage gap with the United States and other Western economies. Simultaneously, companies are plagued by higher attrition rates that may lead to quality and deadline pressures. 
 For the moment, however, there is no indication the industry cannot cope with the unflagging demand to send work offshore. ''If India can continuously pull less paid, less educated people into the labor pool,'' Mr. Haney said, ''a substantial wage gap will continue to exist.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers attend to customer calls from overseas at a center in India. Companies rely on India's English-speaking labor pool for the centers. (Photo by Bhargava/Corbis, for The New York Times )(pg. W1)
 Programmers on a Bangalore campus of Wipro, a large outsourcing company in India. More kinds of work are moving overseas. (Photo by Namas Bhojani for The New York Times)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFSHORING (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); INSURANCE (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); COST OF LIVING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ACCOUNTING (74%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (70%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (69%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%) Labor; Foreign Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: DELOITTE LLP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: MARSHALL O LARSEN (55%) saritha rai

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) India; Europe

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



416 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 559 words

PERSON: Shizuo Kakutani

HEADLINE: Shizuo Kakutani, 92, Dies; Known For Math Tools

BYLINE: By SARA ROBINSON

 BODY:
Shizuo Kakutani, a mathematician known for fundamental tools that have come to bear his name and that are used in disparate fields including economics, died yesterday in New Haven. He was 92 and lived in Hamden, Conn.
 His death was announced by his daughter, Michiko. 
 A professor at Yale for 33 years, Dr. Kakutani was known to mathematicians for his influential work in the fields of ergodic theory, functional analysis and probability theory. To economists, he was known for a mathematical tool used to prove theorems about social systems.
 In a discipline famous for people who work in isolation, Dr. Kakutani was remarkable for his gregariousness. Most of his research was done in collaboration with others, and groups of active researchers tended to form around him. 
 ''He didn't like to travel far, so people would come to him,'' said Jal Choksi, an emeritus professor at McGill University in Montreal and a member of Dr. Kakutani's circle .
 The tool he developed, known as the Kakutani fixed-point theorem, was a key step in the original proof of the existence of Nash equilibria, the theorem for which John Forbes Nash received his Nobel Prize. Dr. Kakutani's theorem is also used to prove a famous 1954 theorem by the economists Kenneth J. Arrow and Gerard Debreu, which says that there are prices for goods that balance supply and demand in a complex economy. Both economists also won Nobel Prizes, partly for this work.
 In the mathematical specialty ergodic theory, a fundamental tool is called the Kakutani skyscraper. Used to describe a random process, like coin flipping, for example, the skyscraper is a way of organizing the process into a picture, with levels that look like the floors of an office tower. This picture makes it easier to understand the properties of the process. In the case of coin flipping, tossing the coin corresponds to ascending one floor in the skyscraper.
 Dr. Kakutani was born in 1911 in Osaka, Japan. Following the wishes of his father, a respected lawyer, Dr. Kakutani initially studied literature and the arts. Eventually, his father gave him permission to study mathematics, and he attended Tohoku University in Sendai and, in 1934, became a teaching assistant in the mathematics department at Osaka University. There, he joined a lively group of young mathematicians who started a newsletter that became influential in Japanese mathematics. 
 Dr. Kakutani's work caught the attention of Herman Weyl, a professor at the Institute for Advanced Studies in Princeton who in 1940 invited him for a two-year visit. While at the institute, Dr. Kakutani participated in seminars run by Weyl and John von Neumann, activities that led to some of Dr. Kakutani's best-known work . 
 During the war years, Dr. Kakutani returned to Japan, where he became a professor at Osaka University and continued to publish. In 1948, he returned to the institute, and he was appointed a professor at Yale in 1949. While at Yale, Dr. Kakutani, a popular teacher, again became the center of a group of mathematicians who would meet frequently to work on research. 
 In 1982, Mr. Kakutani received the Imperial Award of the Academy of Japan for his achievements and service to mathematics.
 In addition to his daughter Michiko, the chief book critic of The New York Times, he is survived by his wife of 52 years, the former Keiko Kay Uchida.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shizuo Kakutani in the 1980's. (Photo by T. Charles Erickson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); MATHEMATICS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (75%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); LITERATURE (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (66%) Mathematics; Biographical Information; Deaths (Obituaries)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%) Yale University; New York Times

Michiko Kakutani; Shizuo Kakutani; Sara Robinson

GEOGRAPHIC: OSAKA, JAPAN (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (56%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (56%) JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (73%); CANADA (56%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



417 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Economy Aided by Exports

BYLINE: By The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Aug. 17 

 BODY:
Mexico's economy expanded 3.9 percent in the second quarter over the period a year earlier as exports to the United States continued to lead a recovery, the Finance Ministry said Tuesday. 
 The government expects that Mexico's economy will expand 4 percent this year, the strongest growth since 2000. 
 Most private estimates agree with that forecast.
 The second-quarter growth figure was the highest since the last quarter of 2000. 
 Mexico is emerging from a three-year slump caused by the slowdown in demand from the United States, which buys 90 percent of Mexico's exports, and competition from Asia for its products.
 But exports have been growing rapidly this year and employment is finally beginning to respond. In June, exports grew 21.5 percent over the previous year. 
 The export boom showed up in second-quarter growth in manufacturing, up 4 percent, along with transportation and communications, up 8.2 percent. Construction rose 4.4 percent, largely as a result of successful government programs to increase spur low-income housing construction. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TRENDS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (67%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (64%) Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (93%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



418 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Oil Price Comes Close to $47; Continued High Demand Seen

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Crude oil prices rose to an intraday record of $46.95 a barrel in New York yesterday as strengthening United States economic figures raised concern that production capacity might not be adequate to meet global demand.
 Industrial production and home construction gained last month, the government said. Global oil use will rise to a record 82.2 million barrels a day this year, the International Energy Agency said this month. Prices have surged 44 percent in New York this year on concern that demand will not be met because of supply disruptions in exporting countries. 
 ''The only way to lower prices is to increase capacity, either by exploring and developing new deposits, or reducing demand,'' said Stephen Leeb, who manages $100 million at Leeb Capital Management. ''The dynamics have changed.''
 In New York, crude oil for September delivery rose 70 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $46.75 a barrel. Prices reached $46.95, the highest since oil began trading in New York in 1983. Futures have set intraday records all but one day since July 30. Oil is up 51 percent from a year ago.
 In London, the October futures contract for Brent crude oil rose 30 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $42.99 a barrel on the International Petroleum Exchange. The September Brent futures contract reached $44.11 yesterday on the last day of trading, the highest since futures began trading in 1988.
 Rising demand has left the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries with ''effective'' spare production capacity of 500,000 barrels a day, according to the International Energy Agency, which advises 26 industrialized nations. 
 ''Economic growth is strong, as is demand,'' said Jay Saunders, an energy analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York. ''There is no spare capacity outside of Saudi Arabia.''
 Last week, the Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, sought to calm concern about a lack of supply, saying the kingdom has 1.3 million barrels a day of spare production ready for use. Mr. Naimi's statement was shrugged off by traders, and prices rose to a record. The extra barrels Saudi Arabia is offering are of less-desirable heavy crude oil.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks oil prices (near-month contract), since March 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); FUTURES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Records and Achievements; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Production; International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (65%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (57%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



419 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

A Golden Moment for U.S. Fencers
Mariel Zagunis of the United States, right, during her semifinal victory yesterday over Catalina Gheorgitoaia of Romania in saber, a women's event in the Olympics for the first time. Zagunis went on to win the first American fencing gold medal in 100 years, and her teammate Sada Jacobson won the bronze.
 In swimming, Michael Phelps won two more gold medals; in gymnastics, the United States women won silver.
 At many events at the Athens Games, spectators have been few and far between. SPORTSWEDNESDAY

New Spy Chief Post Gains Guarded Support
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and the acting director of central intelligence suggested in Congressional hearings that they now supported, however warily, the 9/11 panel's recommendation that a new national director oversee all intelligence agencies. PAGE A10

Consumer Prices Dip Slightly
The Consumer Price Index dropped 0.1 percent in July, the first decline in eight months, suggesting that inflation may be slowing. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

McGreevey Resists Early Exit
Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey met with Senate President Richard J. Codey amid signals that he was not bowing to pressure to step down immediately. PAGE B1

Touching a Tortured Past
The National Underground Railroad Freedom Center has opened in Cincinnati. It includes a slave pen with a pillar etched with the names of slaves. A review of the museum. THE ARTS, PAGE E1

Fund-Raiser to Plead Guilty
A New Jersey developer who is one of the nation's top Democratic campaign contributors is scheduled to plead guilty in a case in which he is accused of hiring a prostitute to blackmail a witness in a federal investigation, according to lawyers involved in the case. PAGE B1


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Mark Lyons for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); ATHLETES (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); ESPIONAGE (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); GUILTY PLEAS (74%); WITNESSES (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); EXTORTION (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (50%); PROSTITUTION (50%) News and News Media; Olympic Games (2004); Fencing (Sport)

PERSON: MICHAEL PHELPS (58%) Mariel Zagunis

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



420 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Market Place; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Facing higher costs and a tough trading climate, some mutual funds are calling it quits.

BYLINE: By Riva D. Atlas

 BODY:
SOME of the nation's more than 8,000 mutual funds are shutting their doors, as their managers confront a lackluster stock market, greater regulatory scrutiny and higher costs. 
 Yesterday, the WWW Internet Fund, set up in 1996 to capitalize on the Internet boom, the first mutual fund to do so, said its board had decided to liquidate the fund and two affiliated funds, Growth Flex and Market Opportunities. The announcement came nearly two weeks after managers of the Oakmark Small Cap Fund announced that it would be closing.
 ''We're sitting here with $10 million in assets and three years of losses,'' said Lawrence York, manager of the WWW Internet Fund. The funds' assets peaked at $150 million at the height of the Internet bubble, Mr. Lawrence said, and have since been shrinking because of disastrous performance. 
 The WWW Internet Fund lost 57 percent, 52 percent and 49 percent in 2000 through 2002, respectively, according to Morningstar. It rebounded in 2003 to return more than 70 percent, but is down again this year, 12 percent through July.
 The board questioned ''whether it was in the best interest of shareholders'' to keep the funds going, Mr. York said. With assets shrinking, the costs of running the funds had escalated, since there was less capital over which to spread expenses. The WWW Internet fund has an expense ratio of 5.5 percent of assets, according to Morningstar.
 ''It's refreshing to see a board do the right thing,'' said Russel Kinnel, director of fund research at Morningstar, adding that it was rare for mutual fund boards to shut a fund voluntarily. ''It may be another sign that Eliot Spitzer's campaign is having an effect.''
 Mr. Spitzer, the New York attorney general, began a broad investigation of short-term trading in mutual funds a year ago. He has criticized mutual fund directors for not acting sooner than they have to stop the improper trading.
 Mutual fund companies are confronting higher costs, as a result of new rules stemming from the regulators' investigation. Add to that years of poor stock market performance, and some fund companies may decide it is not worth their while to stay in business, analysts said.
 The manager of the $350 million Oakmark Small Cap fund decided this month to shut the fund after failing in several efforts to improve performance. The fund has a three-year annualized total return of 1.86 percent, according to Morningstar, lagging its peers by more than 10 percentage points.
 ''We hadn't been able to fix the fund, and decided that the fairest thing to do was to give the money back to our shareholders,'' said John Raitt, chief executive of Harris Associates, the investment adviser of the Oakmark funds. ''We would have been experimenting with shareholders' money'' had the fund remained in operation, he said.
 Mr. Kinnel contends that several other mutual fund boards should follow the example of these two and vote to liquidate. He recently posted on Morningstar's Web site a list of other funds that he argued ''would be better off liquidated because of some combination of high costs and weak management.''
 The list includes another Internet fund, the Munder NetNet Fund, as well as the American Heritage; Frontier Equity; Grand Prix; U.S. Global Investors Global Resources; Eaton Vance Greater India; and the Alliance Bernstein Global Small Cap funds.
 Representatives of the Munder NetNet Fund and the U.S. Global funds replied that Morningstar's data did not reflect a sharp decline in their funds' expenses in recent months. 
 The Munder fund's expenses have fallen nearly 20 percent in the last year, to 2.46 percent, a spokeswoman said in an e-mail message. Citing opportunities in the technology and Internet sectors, she said, ''We fail to see a compelling argument for recommending to the board that it liquidate this fund.''
 The U.S. Global fund has benefited from a strong market for natural resources stocks, and has seen its expense ratio drop from more than 3 percent over each of the prior three years to 1.53 percent through June, according to the company's Web site. The fund's assets have gone from just $12 million last year to $129 million as of June, allowing the manager to spread costs over a larger shareholder base, said John Derrick, head of research at U.S. Global.
 A spokeswoman for Eaton Vance said that the India fund's expense ratio of 3.35 percent reflected the high cost of research on emerging markets.
 A spokeswoman for Alliance Bernstein declined to comment, and representatives of Frontier Equity and Grand Prix did not return telephone calls late yesterday.
 Some fund companies may choose to stay in business even if it is uneconomical. The $1 million American Heritage Fund, which Mr. Kinnel calls ''one of the worst performers on record,'' has had an annualized return of 19 percent over the last decade. But the managers say they would never think of liquidating it, even though they are subsidizing its operations. They hope that its performance will eventually revive.
 ''There is no way we are going to close the fund unless we have to,'' said Benno Thieme of Thieme Securities, an affiliate of the fund manager. ''It's a matter of pride.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BONDS (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); DEREGULATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Shutdowns (Institutional); Mutual Funds; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: Www Internet Fund; Growth Flex Fund; Market Opportunities Fund

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (50%) Riva D Atlas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



421 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Fall Season Looks Solid for Retailers, But Holidays Could Be Another Story

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
Against a background of lackluster retail sales in June and July, analysts and merchants still predict a decent, and possibly strong, fall selling season for clothes, accessories and home furnishings. But beyond that -- through the holidays and into the new year -- their forecasts become more cautious.
 ''There's buzz about back-to-school,'' said George Strachan, a senior retail analyst at Goldman Sachs. ''Some see it as a harbinger for Christmas, but it's hard to make it a hard-and-fast prediction. I just don't think the macro outlook looks particularly good.''
 The long-term forecast for retailing is murky. Merchants, almost across the board, are offering fall clothes with plenty of color and new styles -- they have streamlined their inventories and are selling more goods at full price. But their fate during the Christmas season is anyone's guess; most analysts are not risking predictions. 
 ''The bar has been set much higher for the next six months,'' said Arnold H. Aronson, the managing director of retail strategies at Kurt Salmon Associates, a consulting firm. ''The economy is slowing; interest rates are moving higher; there is less home-refinancing cash around; the stock market is moving backwards; the threat of terrorism is getting greater; political uncertainty is building -- it all adds up to a general nervousness.''
 While the short term -- the fall season -- may be better for retailers than many think, the long-term ''has to be restrained and guarded,'' he said, adding, ''Nobody is ringing any bells.'' Some analysts expect some slowing in the luxury business; the boutiques with $3,000 handbags and $600 pairs of shoes, as well as $6,000 down-filled sofas, may well be hit the hardest in the next six months. 
 ''Luxury will fare as the stock market fares,'' said Robert Buchanan, a retail analyst with A.G. Edwards. ''The Nasdaq is down, and the S. & P. is dropping. If the stock market keeps acting like it has the past six weeks, luxury could be weakened.''
 Michael P. Niemira, chief economist with the International Council of Shopping Centers, agreed. ''That sector is vulnerable,'' he said.
 Steven Wieting, a senior economist with Salomon Smith Barney, looking at retailing as a whole, said he expected slower growth. Nevertheless, he rejects doom-and-gloom predictions, pointing out that the Conference Board had to revise upward its consumer confidence rating for June. And predictions for the future, he said, ''are about as realistic as a Van Gogh.''
 During the last year, it was not only the top-tier imported luxury brands like Louis Vuitton and Chanel that did well. Two ''affordable luxury'' players, Coach and Burberry, turned in white-hot performances as middle-class shoppers reached up to buy their goods.
 Now, with gasoline prices at near-record highs and the stock market trembling, the outlook for middle-class retail spending is a big issue, not only for Coach and Burberry, but also for department stores, where middle-class spending has been igniting a mini-renaissance. Specialty shops oriented to teenagers, like Hot Topic and Abercrombie & Fitch -- and even Gap -- have also stumbled lately, adding to the uncertainty.
 ''What's killing us is these child-care tax credits, which last year dumped $13 billion in checks into America's wallets,'' said Mr. Buchanan, the analyst. The Treasury mailed checks out in the beginning of August last year and that ''gave a huge boost to August and September numbers,'' he said, but there has been no such windfall this year. Mr. Buchanan predicted ''a better tone of business'' in October and November.
 A year ago, analysts and pollsters complained there was no ''newness'' in the stores; the fixtures and the merchandise alike were dated. What was the difference, they asked, between the Gap and American Eagle? Or between Home Depot and Lowe's? Did Bloomingdale's look different from Marshall Field's?
 Only one year later, the landscape is different, at least inside the stores.
 Lord & Taylor is closing 32 poorly performing stores, more than a third of the total, and sprucing up the rest. Marshall Field's ripped itself inside out, refocusing its spotlight on new suppliers like Levenger and The Downtown Dog, which leased boutique space. And Saks Fifth Avenue's new management has pledged to bring entertainment and fun to its mahogany-paneled environs.
 Largely as a result of these changes, many same-store sales figures -- comparing results at stores open at least a year -- rose in the spring and seemed to be rocketing in May. But June was disappointing -- up only 2.5 percent, compared with a 6 percent average from January through May -- and July was only one-tenth of a point higher, according to Goldman Sachs's composite index. With hurricanes and tropical storms, analysts are saying that August could be grim. 
 Then there are surging oil prices -- crude oil has risen more than 40 percent in the last year -- which raise the cost of heating homes and apartments, as well as transportation costs. 
 Maggie Gilliam, an independent retail consultant, said gasoline prices were hurting Wal-Mart and were ''clobbering'' the Family Dollar Stores chain. 
 Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, predicts only ''a soft patch,'' a temporary slowdown. Mr. Niemira of the shopping center council said: ''Both Target and Wal-Mart say they are sold on the Fed's statements that it is only temporary. Both see us getting back to a 3 to 3 1/2 percent pace to the G.N.P.''
 Still, for luxury sellers like Saks Fifth Avenue, the sales comparisons are going to be harder after big increases a year ago. ''The arithmetic begins to hurt,'' Mr. Niemira said.
 Claire Armstrong Gallacher of Caris & Company, a retail analyst who specializes in furniture, said she did not see an end to spending on home furnishings -- in fact, she said, the terrorist alerts will curb travel and keep people at home.
 But even Ms. Gallacher sees a trend away from big-ticket items, which propelled Pottery Barn and Restoration Hardware this spring.
 ''It's going to be the $30 picture frames, candles -- not necessarily the $1,500 armoire,'' she said. But she is not worried about the stores' bottom lines. ''They're lower-ticket items,'' she said, ''but with a high profitability.''
 Ms. Gallacher, along with other analysts, cited the still-high consumer confidence rating, which, she said, ''just keeps ticking up.'' In July, the confidence index reached its highest level since June 2002. 
 Dana Telsey, an analyst who specializes in luxury markets, contends that the market will keep going strong because of new must-have items. ''Skirts will be longer, and pencil-thin skirts are coming back. There will also be color, especially in jewelry.'' 
 Tiffany, which has had a rocky few months in its previously lucrative Japanese business, announced last week that its Asian business was expected to improve. Ms. Telsey cited Bulgari, the jewelers, and Coach as robust businesses.
 Most analysts expect Louis Vuitton, with its signature handbags still in great demand, to slack off in the next six months. But that would not leave the company -- which had Jennifer Lopez in its ads for $885 pocketbooks last year -- exactly begging. Ms. Telsey sees growth slowing because the company ''can't keep growing at 50 percent a year.''
 Americans' renewed appetite for luxury is not going to go away anytime soon, said Deborah Weinswig, an analyst with Smith Barney. ''Consumers just can't seem to get enough of those $200 shoes and those $1,000 handbags.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A mannequin at Lord & Taylor in Manhattan. Department stores have been trying to spruce up their offerings. (Photo by Zack Seckler/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 On Madison Avenue in Manhattan. Retail analysts say that luxury boutiques could be hit hard if the stock market continues to falter. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); CHRISTMAS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (70%); INTEREST RATES (51%); TERRORISM (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Christmas; Industry Profiles

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); KURT SALMON ASSOCIATES INC (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (60%); LVMH (BIT) (60%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (60%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: Tracie Rozhon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



422 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise Despite Oil Prices, as Fears of Inflation Ease

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Shares ended higher for a third day yesterday, even as oil prices briefly hit another record, suggesting that investors were encouraged by data showing an easing of inflationary pressure and a sharp rebound in the housing market.
 Retailers led the advance, with Home Depot and Staples raising profit forecasts for the year after posting strong quarterly profits. But rebounding oil prices, which ended just below $47 a barrel, weighed on stocks and trimmed the market's early gains.
 ''Economically the numbers were O.K., and we had strong numbers from the retail sector, but oil is definitely putting a crimp on the market,'' said David J. Memmott, who is in charge of listed block trading at Morgan Stanley. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 18.28 points, or 0.18 percent, at 9,972.83, while the Nasdaq composite index closed 12.41 points higher, or 0.70 percent, at 1,795.25. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 2.37 points, or 0.22 percent, to close at 1,081.71.
 Trading was moderate, with 1.3 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, just below the 1.4 billion daily average for last year. About 1.4 billion shares were traded on the Nasdaq, compared with a 1.7 billion daily average last year. Advancers outnumbered decliners by about five to three on the New York Stock Exchange and almost three to two on the Nasdaq.
 After receding on Monday, crude oil futures in New York ended just below a new record yesterday as the inflation data gave traders hope that high oil prices may not yet be hurting economic growth. In addition, an inventory report due today is expected to show that crude supplies shrank, according to analysts.
 On the New York Mercantile Exchange, September crude ended the day trading at $46.75 a barrel, after earlier hitting $46.95, the highest level that crude futures have reached in the 21 years they have traded on the exchange. The previous record of $46.91 was set overnight on Monday.
 Upbeat economic reports helped to offset the surge in oil prices.
 United States consumer prices dropped in July for the first time in eight months as a sharp run-up in energy costs reversed, the government said in a report that suggested the pace of interest-rate increases is likely to be slow.
 Separate reports showed that industrial output and home building activity made comebacks last month after a slump in June. The homebuilding data helped shares of KB Home, whose stock rose $1.04, or 1.6 percent, to $67.48.
 Shares of Home Depot, the world's largest home improvement retailer, rose $1.12, or 3.3 percent, to $35.10, after it raised its full-year forecast and reported better-than-expected quarterly earnings.
 Shares in Staples, the nation's top office products retailer, also rose. The company had a 39 percent jump in quarterly profit, raised its full-year forecast and said it planned to enter the Chinese market. Its stock rose 99 cents, or 3.6 percent, to close at $28.87 a share.
 Motorola Inc., the world's second-largest cellphone maker, rose after a top executive said in an interview that the company expected strong sales growth in the second half of 2004. Shares of Motorola increased 66 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $15.08.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Rise
By Bloomberg News
 United States Treasury notes rose yesterday after a decline in consumer prices suggested that the Federal Reserve had room to slow the pace of increases in its benchmark interest rate.
 ''People have been set up for higher interest rates and lower bond prices, and we haven't gotten it,'' said Scott Dolan, who helps manage $6 billion at TimesSquare Capital Management in New York. ''The view that rates are going to go significantly higher has definitely been challenged with the weaker data.''
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note had risen 19/32 to 100 15/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.19 percent, from 4.26 percent on Monday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.894
High Rate: 1.360
Coupon Yield: 1.383
Low Rate: 1.340
Median Rate: 1.350
Total applied for: $69,416,003
Accepted: $26,070,203
Noncompetitive: $48,236
The four-week bills mature Sept. 16, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks 3-6 month and 2-30 year securities from one month ago and for yesterday.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); FUTURES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); HOME CENTERS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); KB HOME CORP (51%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); KBH (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (51%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



423 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 73 words

HEADLINE: Anything for New York?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''City Lowering Its Sights for a Convention Boom'' (front page, Aug. 17): What if Republican leaders used some time here to discuss Section 8 with housing officials, transit legislation with transportation officials and the homeland security financing formula with the N.Y.P.D.?
 Maybe New York could come out of the convention with enduring benefits instead of a fleeting economic boom.

Jonathan Carey
New York, Aug. 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (88%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (87%); ELECTIONS (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (85%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (84%); TERRORISM (83%); NATIONAL SECURITY (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Housing; Transit Systems; Terrorism

PERSON: Jonathan Carey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



424 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Germany: Investor Confidence Falls

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Investor confidence in Germany fell for the first month in three in August amid concern about record oil prices and slowing growth in the United States and Japan. The index of institutional and analyst sentiment compiled by the ZEW Center for European Economic Research fell to 45.3, from 48.4 in July. The drop in confidence adds to evidence that German economic growth may slow this quarter. ''The recent economic data from the U.S. gives reason to be concerned that the very strong export demand in Germany up to this point could weaken,'' the center said. ''In addition, the high oil price reduces the purchasing power of consumers and puts pressure on domestic demand.''


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Germany's investor confidence since March. (August: 45.3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (87%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (87%); TRENDS (85%); EXPORT TRADE (85%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (83%) Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: Zew Center for European Economic Research

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%) Germany; Japan

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



425 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Just Keep It Peaceful, Protesters; New York Is Offering Discounts

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Thinking about smashing windows or overturning cars during the Republican National Convention? Think again: that will cost you a discounted buffalo chicken salad from Applebee's or a cheaper ticket to see ''Tony n' Tina's Wedding.'' 
 In a transparently mercantile bid to keep protesters from disrupting the Republican National Convention later this month, the Bloomberg administration will offer ''peaceful political activists'' discounts at select hotels, museums, stores and restaurants around town during convention week, which begins Aug. 29.
 Law-abiding protesters will be given buttons that bear a fetching rendition of the Statue of Liberty holding a sign that reads, ''peaceful political activists.'' Protesters can present the buttons at places like the Whitney Museum, the Museum of Sex, the Pokemon Center store and such restaurants as Miss Mamie's Spoonbread Too and Applebee's to save some cash during their stay. 
 If only the Romanovs had thought of this.
 ''It's no fun to protest on an empty stomach,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday, when he announced the program at NYC & Company, the city's tourism office, which will distribute the buttons to all comers to its Midtown office.
 Protesters can also get the buttons from groups that have a legal permit to rally. But Mr. Bloomberg conceded yesterday that not everyone who wore a button would be strictly vetted for his or her peacefulness. ''Unfortunately, we can't stop an anarchist from getting a button,'' he said, though he doubted any of them would want to wear one.
 The discount program comes at a time when Mr. Bloomberg is under increasing pressure from the largest protest group, United for Peace and Justice, which is demanding the right to protest in Central Park, a request the city has repeatedly rejected. As a result, the city faces the prospect that the largest rally, planned the Sunday before the convention, will be an illegal gathering. 
 A spokesman for the group, Bill Dobbs, dismissed the discount program yesterday as a publicity stunt.
 The city contends that it wants to give as warm a welcome to protesters as to delegates. ''Most times, people try to keep protesters from coming,'' the mayor said, ''and they certainly don't go out of their way to accommodate them.''
 In offering the discounts, the city also has its economy in mind. Officials want to make sure that hotels and restaurants are as fully booked as possible during the convention week; many have reported that reservations are slow for that week.
 The discount program for protesters is modeled on one for delegates to the convention, and there are some notable differences. Protesters are offered $5 off admission to the Museum of Sex, while delegates are not. But delegates get $3 off the space show at the American Museum of Natural History, a discount not offered to protesters. The Republicans get ''Rent,'' the people who oppose them get ''Tony n' Tina's Wedding.'' 
 Bloomberg administration officials say the list of offerings for protesters may grow. An up-to-date list appears on nycvisit.com; visitors to the site can click on ''Welcome peaceful political activists.'' There, the discontented but hungry can also find information about the city's history and tour guides for the ''politically minded visitor.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg also said that the police officers and firemen who had been holding loud demonstrations at his public appearances in the past few weeks would qualify.
 Yesterday, outside the mayor's news conference, Joe Miccio, a firefighter who came to hector the mayor, fingered the button presented to him by a reporter with some confusion. ''We are peaceful political activists,'' he said, puzzling over the notion of discounted hamburgers and office supplies (at Kroll's Office Products, free magic marker included). ''We'll take a look at it.''
 The city says it expects at least 200,000 people -- both out-of-towners and aggrieved New Yorkers -- to protest around the city between now and the end of the convention on Sept. 2. And, as Mr. Bloomberg pointed out, they will need to eat.
 With the convention a week and a half away, there are already some who may not qualify for the discounts. Yesterday, four members of Code Pink, a women's protest group, were arrested for trying to dangle a 40-foot-long banner from their ninth-floor window at the Sheraton Hotel across from Mr. Bloomberg's news conference, the police said. 
 Jodie Evans, a co-founder of the group, identified the women as Andrea Buffa and Colleen Galbraith of San Francisco, Claire Varoney of Los Angeles and Danielle Feris of New York City. The charges against the women are pending, the police said yesterday afternoon.
 Gary Ferdman, the executive director of Sensible Priorities, a business consortium, said yesterday that he came up with the idea for the discount program when the city decided it needed to reach out to protesters. ''I'm afraid this Central Park thing is really going to blow up,'' he said after the news conference, perhaps speaking more bluntly than city officials about the motivations for the program.
 In announcing the program, Mr. Bloomberg was joined yesterday by former Mayors Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins. While Mr. Dinkins said that he might have handled the request to protest in Central Park ''differently,'' Mr. Koch said he agreed with the Bloomberg administration's plan to keep the largest protest off the Great Lawn. That decision has angered many New Yorkers, particularly those who have ambivalent feelings about the convention, which Mr. Bloomberg has repeatedly said will be an economic boon for the city. 
 Among more veteran protesters, the city's offer had a certain appeal. ''Since we're both guests, New York City should treat us equally,'' said Aron Kay, who is also known locally as the Mad Yippie Pie Thrower. Mr. Kay is the organizer of a protest planned for outside Mayor Bloomberg's townhouse on the Upper East Side on Aug 22.
 ''Maybe we would like to eat in a restaurant or catch a play,'' he mused. Before or after haranguing the mayor? ''I would say after,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)Chart: ''Perks for Peaceful Protesting''The Bloomberg administration announced a variety of discounts for activists who register as peaceful protestors. Republican delegates also receive a variety of benefits. Here is a sample.ShowsPEACEFUL PROTESTORS: Naked Boys Singing -- $25 ticketsREPUBLICAN DELEGATES: Wonderful Town -- $101 tickets for ShoppingPEACEFUL$65 PROTESTORS: Pokemon Center NY -- 10% discount on merchandiseREPUBLICAN DELEGATES: Tourneau -- $100 gift certificateRestaurantsPEACEFUL PROTESTORS: Applebee's -- 10% off mealsREPUBLICAN DELEGATES: Osso Buco -- 20% off lunchNightlifePEACEFUL PROTESTORS: Gotham Comedy Club -- Free mug with paid entryREPUBLICAN DELEGATES: Gotham Comedy Club -- Two-for-one admissionToursPEACEFUL PROTESTORS: Big Onion Walking Tours -- $2 off adult tour priceREPUBLICAN DELEGATES: Liberty Helicopters -- 20% off toursMuseumsPEACEFUL PROTESTORS: Museum of Sex -- $5 off admissionREPUBLICAN DELEGATES: American Museum of Natural History -- $3 off space show(Source by www.nycvisit.com)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RIOTS (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (66%); LABOR UNIONS (59%) Presidential Election of 2004; Travel and Vacations; Conventions, National (US); Demonstrations and Riots; Police; Fires and Firefighters; Organized Labor ; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Presidential Election of 2004; Hotels and Motels; Museums; Restaurants

COMPANY: APPLEBEE'S INTERNATIONAL INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



426 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Schroder's Bond With Russia: A Little Girl, Now His Own

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Aug. 17 

 BODY:
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany has been a healer of old wounds this summer, traveling to France to take part in the ceremonies commemorating the 60th anniversary of D-Day; to Poland, where he honored those killed in the Warsaw uprising; and to Romania, where he laid roses at the grave of his father, a young soldier lost in World War II.
 Now, Mr. Schroder has built an even more personal bridge to a former wartime foe: he and his wife, Doris Schroder-Kopf, recently adopted a 3-year-old girl from Russia.
 The adoption, reported Tuesday by two German newspapers and by Russian news agencies, was not confirmed by the German government, which said it was a private matter for the chancellor. 
 According to Bild Zeitung, a German mass-market paper, Mr. Schroder and his wife picked up the girl, Viktoria, from a children's home in St. Petersburg several weeks ago. She has been living since then with the Schroders at their private residence in Hanover, in northern Germany.
 The adoption was made under a veil of secrecy that would be inconceivable for a top elected official in the United States. No photographs or details about the girl were made public. The chancellor and his wife traveled to St. Petersburg on a private trip that was not reported here.
 Ms. Schroder-Kopf has zealously guarded the privacy of her other child, a 13-year-old daughter, Klara, from a previous marriage. Mr. Schroder, who has been married four times, has no children of his own.
 For those interested in symbolism, the adoption is yet another sign of the warming trend in Russian-German relations over the past few years. Bitter enemies in World War II, tense neighbors during the cold war, the two are in the midst of a burgeoning political and culture exchange.
 Mr. Schroder has forged close personal ties with President Vladimir V. Putin, finding common ground, among other things, in opposing the American-led war in Iraq. Mr. Putin and his wife dropped in on Mr. Schroder in Hanover last April to celebrate his 60th birthday. The chancellor alerted Mr. Putin to the planned adoption, according to the Russian news agency Interfax.
 Ms. Schroder-Kopf, 41, a former journalist for Bild who has written a children's book, has been active in charities that care for young people in St. Petersburg, according to the newspaper.
 A spokesman for Mr. Schroder declined to comment on the adoption, saying, ''This is a private matter for the chancellor and his wife.''
 The government's nonresponse underscores how much privacy German leaders are still accorded. On the same front page of Bild that featured the Schroder adoption news, Germany's defense minister, Peter Struck, disclosed in an interview that he had suffered a mild stroke in June.
 At the time, the Defense Ministry said Mr. Struck had been hospitalized for ''circulatory problems.'' After that, he basically dropped out of sight. In the interview, Mr. Struck, 61, said that after convalescing and taking off most of the summer, he was ready to return to work.
 Political analysts say the news media take their lead from the German public, which draws a line between the official and private lives of politicians. Reinhard Schlinkert, the chairman of Dimap, a polling firm in Bonn, said that before the last election, he had surveyed people about whether Mr. Schroder's serial divorces affected their view of him. ''Nobody was interested,'' he said.
 Still, even a German leader can benefit from a good-news story like the adoption of a young girl, Mr. Schlinkert said.
 Bild, the most widely read paper here, gave lavish play to the adoption, calling it the ''most touching story of the year.'' Analysts are already calculating how much the news will help Mr. Schroder, whose Social Democratic party has slumped to historic lows in public support because of the government's campaign to scale back Germany's generous welfare subsidies.
 Mr. Schroder's personal popularity remains higher than that of his party. But Mr. Schlinkert said the afterglow of the chancellor's adoption, and its suggestion of closer German-Russian ties, would fade quickly.
 ''It won't help the party out of its hole,'' he said. ''He will only be re-elected if the number of unemployed people drops and the economy takes off. But he does have two more years to go.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chancellor Gerhard Schroder and his wife, Doris Schroder-Kopf, whose adoption of a 3-year-old girl from Russia was reported yesterday. (Photo by Christian Charisius/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); MARRIAGE (77%); COLD WAR (76%); TRENDS (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); IRAQ WAR (71%); WRITERS (69%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (68%); WEATHER (63%) 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (93%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (76%) Mark Landler; Gerhard (Chancellor) Schroder; Doris Schroder-Kopf; Peter (Min) Struck

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); WARSAW, POLAND (73%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); POLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ROMANIA (92%); FRANCE (90%); IRAQ (79%) Germany; Russia; St Petersburg (Russia); Germany

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



427 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Recalling Julia Child, Oyster-Loving Idealist

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

 BODY:
JULIA CHILD loved food, loved eating, loved cooking, loved teaching others to cook. But Mrs. Child had many other dimensions, as I discovered the first time I was seated next to her at dinner, at a fund-raiser in a Washington hotel.
 We had met briefly before, and I had, of course, read her books and watched her on television, but for some reason I chose to break the conversational ice by asking her about her service in Ceylon during World War II in the Office of Strategic Services, the predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency. How in the world did I know about that? she asked in that wonderful warble of hers. ''I'm very interested in that part of the world,'' I answered, ''spent some time in Asia myself and I noticed your name in Barbara Tuchman's book 'Stilwell and the American Experience in China.' '' 
 Away we went, on that night and then on many later nights, talking about her war and my war (Vietnam), politics, foreign policy and only occasionally food.
 Mrs. Child was a paid-up member of the generation that truly believed, as she once remarked, ''that we could change the world.'' She sometimes said she wished she had stayed in government service, as either a spy or a diplomat. And she was always avid for the latest political news and gossip.
 When she came to Washington for a celebration of her 85th birthday in 1997, she had only two requests -- a private tour of the White House and lunch with Katharine Graham of The Washington Post, whose autobiography had recently been published to great acclaim. Both wishes were granted. Who could deny a woman who, as the citation accompanying her honorary doctorate from Harvard said, ''filled the air with common sense and uncommon scent?''
 Few of the obituaries published after Mrs. Child's death last Friday at the age of 91 mentioned that she was a passionate liberal Democrat, a friend when she lived in Cambridge, Mass., of neighbors like the economist John Kenneth Galbraith. She campaigned for years for Planned Parenthood and other causes, and she greatly admired John, Robert and Edward Kennedy, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton.
 So when President Bush announced in 2003, three years after France gave her the Legion d'Honneur, that he planned to award her the Presidential Medal of Freedom, some of her friends, who had tried and failed to persuade Mr. Clinton to do so, feared that Mrs. Child might turn down such recognition from a Republican. She did no such thing. Although she never grandstanded, she rather enjoyed the limelight.
 Her political interests were formed during her childhood. Her wealthy father, John McWilliams, a conservative Midwesterner who had settled in Pasadena, Calif., was one of the businessmen who financed Richard M. Nixon's first political campaign. (He later objected, partly on political grounds, to her marriage to Paul Child.) But her mother was a political nonconformist, whose family, as Mrs. Child once told me proudly, came to California by Conestoga wagon.
 Clearly, the young Julia McWilliams took after her mother, politically and in other ways. I like to think that she inherited her height, her strapping physique, her big strong hands and her no-nonsense manner from one of her pioneer forebears. 
 We talked politics, we ate well, and we laughed a lot. I remember dinner with a small group late one night at Les Nomades in Chicago, then a private dining club. She asked for a martini, downed the small, perfectly formed cocktail and asked brightly for another. A jolly time was had by all. I remember lunch one Saturday in Providence, at a less than distinguished restaurant, with the chef Thomas Keller, Ann Bramson of Artisan Books and my wife, Betsey. Slightly dismayed by the menu's more elaborate offerings, we ordered a modest white wine, shoals of oysters on the half shell and, to the best of my fading memory, fried clams. Mrs. Child pronounced it ''the perfect meal.''
 Oysters, I was to learn, were among her favorite foods, along with duck, beef and anything chocolate. When Betsey and I visited her in Santa Barbara a year ago, we ate lunch at Lucky's, a steakhouse a few blocks from her retirement bungalow. She ordered a fillet (and probably wished privately that they served pommes Anna, which she adored). For dessert, she insisted we all have the house special, a concoction of vanilla ice cream, caramel and chocolate sauces and pecans. Stephanie Hersh, her loyal aide for 16 years, reminded me the other day that Mrs. Child -- ever the champion of moderation and foe of abstention -- had hers in a smaller glass and called it a ''turtlette.''
 She was like that, utterly without snobbery, gastronomic or otherwise. In grand establishments, she often ordered foie gras; in airports, she often ate hot dogs for breakfast. She liked hamburgers (when good) and Chinese food (likewise). Visiting a famous restaurant, she, of course, greeted the chef, but she always went into the kitchen to say hello to the younger cooks, too. She patiently spent countless hours talking with admirers, some of them babbling incoherently, who accosted her at food conferences. 
 And she raised countless millions for culinary organizations like the American Institute of Wine and Food, which she helped found, and the International Association of Culinary Professionals. In her 80th year, she traveled the country, attending one benefit birthday party after another, swelling the coffers of worthy groups.
 Technique mattered deeply to Mrs. Child, which is one reason she held Jacques Pepin, a master technician, in high regard. If she disliked Italian food, it was partly because she thought (wrongly, I believe) that it required little technique. As for her disdain for fiery Mexican food, it may have stemmed from her wartime experience in Ceylon (now Sri Lanka), whose spicy food plagued her digestive system.
 ''I never thought of her as my boss,'' Ms. Hersh said. ''I always felt as if I were just helping Grandma. When I joined her in 1989, she warned me that she had given up books and television. After that, she did four more TV series and wrote five more books. She lived right until she died.''

Most PBS stations will broadcast ''Julia! America's Favorite Chef,'' tonight at 8.


GRAPHIC: Photos: LIBERAL PASSIONS -- Julia Child's concerns were political and culinary. (Photo by Nancy Palmieri/Associated Press)(pg. F1)
 EYE FOR QUALITY -- Mrs. Child admired Jacques Pepin's skill. (Photo by Michael Dwyer/Associated Press)(pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHILDREN (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); FUNDRAISING (72%); POLITICS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (55%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%) Cooking and Cookbooks

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); RICHARD NIXON (52%); TED KENNEDY (51%); JIMMY CARTER (51%) R W Jr Apple; Julia Child; Jacques Pepin

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



428 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; HURRICANE CHARLEY: THE ECONOMICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: With Storm Gone, Floridians Are Hit With Price Gouging

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER; Reporting was contributed by Merissa Green in Lakeland, Linda Brockman in West Palm Beach and Terry Aguayo in Miami.

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Aug. 17 

 BODY:
Greg Lawrence talks about the $10 bag of ice. Kenneth Kleppach says he was clipped for nearly three times the advertised price for a hotel room. And a man with a chain saw told Jerry Olmstead that he could clear the oak tree off his roof, but it would cost $10,500.
 So much for a friendly, helping hand in a time of crisis. Since the winds of Hurricane Charley subsided, officials say a wave of price gouging has swept across central and southwest Florida, putting law enforcement officials into high gear and infuriating storm victims already faced with damaged homes, shuttered workplaces and long lines for basic commodities. 
 ''Why do people try to capitalize on other people's hardship and misery,'' Mr. Olmstead asked as he fumed over the tree removal. ''Of course it angers me. They see an opportunity and, fine, if you want to make a little money. But there's a limit. This is ludicrous.''
 Charlie Crist, Florida's attorney general, said Tuesday afternoon that he had received more than 1,400 complaints of overcharging from throughout the disaster area. This morning he filed formal complaints against the Crossroads Motor Lodge in Lakeland and the Days Inn Airport Hotel in West Palm Beach, accusing them of price gouging and deceptive business practices.
 Not every complaint checks out, and certainly the stricken areas of Florida are filled with volunteers and people offering free food or charity. But there are also those brazenly looking to make some extra money.
 Some gas stations facing long lines of cars with empty tanks are charging $3 a gallon for gas that would normally go for $1.78, said John McMahon, a sheriff's investigator in Orlando's surrounding Orange County.
 In one of the boldest cases, some contractors from Jacksonville offered to clear two trees off the roof of an Orlando woman for $23,000, Mr. McMahon said. The woman declined the offer. 
 In Port Charlotte and in Arcadia, two of the most devastated places, scam artists have been posing as independent insurance claims adjusters, offering, for $500 to $2,000, to help resolve claims with insurance companies, the state's Department of Insurance said.
 Mr. Crist said of the complaints coming into his office, ''This is just the start.'' He added, ''We saw this after Hurricane Andrew and we're seeing it again.''
 Mr. Crist has dispatched teams to help consumers, and squads of sheriff's deputies and consumer advocates are also working to discourage price gouging.
 While many of the complaints have been coming from Punta Gorda and Arcadia, Orlando, at nearly 200 complaints, is leading the list, with Fort Myers, just south of where the hurricane came ashore on the Gulf Coast, running a close second. Under Florida law, each proven case of price gouging carries a penalty of $1,000; each case of deceptive business practices carries a penalty of $10,000 except when the victim is over 60, in which case the penalty rises to $15,000. The complaints began to trickle in as the storm was approaching and a few came in immediately afterward. But now the pace is picking up, said Sara Kinsey, who has been working late into the night answering the attorney general's complaint hot line.
 She said she had heard from a man who said he was told that the new price for a small household generator was now $2,000, up from about $250.
 Many of the complaints have been for two necessities: bottled water and ice. But prices have also jumped for construction work and construction materials, and the authorities expect more of that as the recovery stretches on. 
 Janet Snyder, a pharmacy technician in Cape Coral, said several men in two pickup trucks spotted her roof damage and offered to lay down a temporary covering of plastic sheeting. They wanted $600, about four times what she figured was the right price, based on 15 rolls of plastic that usually sell for $10 each.
 Across the state, in Ormund Beach, Chris Boyce, a salesman for a roofing supply company, said that when his company tried to restock on Monday the wholesaler tried to raise the price of tar paper 40 percent, to $10.50 for a roll of 216 square feet. ''That's criminal,'' Mr. Boyce said he told the wholesaler, adding, ''I'd rather not have it at that price.''
 Ms. Kinsey said that in one instance a price gouger simply took advantage of anxiety and fear that there was no ice to be had. He bought several chests of ice in a grocery store in a mall at the usual $1 or so for a big party-size bag, she said, stepped outside and began selling scoops of ice for $2 each.
 Mr. Lawrence, a cook who is studying to become a Web site designer, came across a gas station here in Orlando selling the equivalent of two $1 bags for $10. 
 ''I said, 'Are you kidding?' and he just looked at me,'' Mr. Lawrence said. ''There were mobs of people buying ice from the guy. Even though that was the only place I could find ice, I refused to buy it.''
 The first wave of opportunistic pricing came from motels and hotels as the hurricane was approaching, Mr. Crist said. Many people fled the Tampa Bay area after forecasters calculated incorrectly that the hurricane would be coming ashore there. 
 Mr. Kleppach and his family were among them. They drove inland, and every hotel they checked was full. They continued across the state to the East Coast city of Fort Pierce and still could not find a room. 
 Finally, in West Palm Beach, Mr. Kleppach said in court documents filed in the attorney general's lawsuits, he saw a sign at the Days Inn Airport Hotel reading, ''ALL ROOMS - $39.99.'' There were two rooms left. But the price, Mr. Kleppach said, was $109.00. ''I was desperate and needed shelter for my family,'' he said, ''so I took the room for that price.''
 At the hotel on Tuesday, Andrew Hill, the manager, refused to discuss the attorney general's accusations. 
 In Plant City, just east of Tampa, Rosemary Duffield, who is in her 80's, decided she should get out of her mobile home and she booked a room a little farther inland, at the Crossroads Motor Lodge in Lakeland, she said in court papers. She was told the price would be $44.79, she said. But when she called to reconfirm later in the day, the price was $55.79. After checking in on Friday and settling into her room, she discovered that she had been charged $61.27. 
 She did not argue with the hotel, but she complained to the attorney general. She did not respond to a reporter's message left on her answering machine Tuesday.
 At the Crossroads Motor Lodge, a man who said he was the manager but would not give his name denied that he had been overcharging. ''How can we gouge?'' he asked. ''We advertise in the newspaper.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 19, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about price gouging in the wake of Hurricane Charley in Florida misstated a detail about Rosemary Duffield's complaint with the state attorney general's office over the price of a hotel room. Ms. Duffield did indeed respond to a reporter's message, confirming the account she had given to the attorney general. The article also misspelled the name of a city where a roofing supply salesman said he found a 40 percent increase in the cost of tar paper. It is Ormond Beach, not Ormund Beach. In some copies, an author identification note misidentified the city from which a correspondent reported. It is Lakeland, not Lackland.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (87%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); SHERIFFS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); INSURANCE (66%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (66%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (61%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (61%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (61%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Charley (Storm); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Frauds and Swindling; Consumer Protection; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Hotels and Motels

ORGANIZATION: Crossroads Motor Lodge (Lakeland, Fla); Days Inn Airport Hotel (West Palm Beach, Fla)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (79%) Charlie (Atty Gen) Crist; Joseph B Treaster

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Florida; Orlando (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004



429 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Selling Houston Warts and All, Especially Warts

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Aug. 12 

 BODY:
The heat. The humidity. The hurricanes. The flying cockroaches. The refineries. The flooding. The list of factors that make this city challenging, particularly in the steamy month of August, goes on, many Houstonians acknowledge.
 Yet perhaps only in Houston -- a city founded in 1836 by two entrepreneurs from New York who described their muddy location as ''well watered'' and ''salubrious'' (one founder, John Kirby Allen, died of congestive fever in 1838) -- could a list of such drawbacks be turned into a marketing campaign. 
 Financed in part by Michael Zilkha, a wealthy wind-energy entrepreneur and a prominent patron of the arts in Houston, a guerrilla-style branding offensive began this month. The campaign, using the slogan ''Houston. It's Worth It,'' relies on descriptions of urban afflictions and images of giant mosquitoes and cockroaches to convey a sense of how Houston is nevertheless beloved by many residents.
 The Internet-based branding campaign permits people who visit a Web site, www.houstonitsworthit.com, to describe in their own words why living in the city has its advantages. Functioning as a blog, or Web log, the site has received hundreds of comments from residents or people with a connection to the city.
 Despite a wealth of enthusiastic comments, the campaign has also touched a nerve.
 Jordy Tollett, the president of the Greater Houston Convention and Visitors Bureau, whose job it is to shape the city's image, has publicly criticized the unofficial operation. At the same time, he was quoted in The Houston Chronicle as acknowledging that the city -- the nation's fourth-largest and the core of a metropolitan area with more than four million people -- had little to show from spending more than $75 million in the last 30 years on image campaigns. Mr. Tollett declined to comment for this article.
 ''Houston. It's Worth It'' certainly differs from the visitors' bureau slogan, ''SpaceCity. A space of infinite possibilities,'' a reference to the importance of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in the city's economy. Past slogans include ''Houston. Expect the Unexpected''; ''Houston's Hot''; and ''Bayou City.'' 
 Distancing the campaign from past efforts was of paramount importance to its creators at ttweak, the marketing and advertising company based in the leafy bohemian district of Montrose. Ttweak became known in the last year for leading the unconventional advertising strategy for Bill White, a Democrat who was elected mayor of Houston in December. 
 ''The 'in spite of all the afflictions here' angle really appealed to us,'' said Randy Twaddle, who owns ttweak with a partner, David Thompson. Mr. Thompson, an Oklahoman who attended Rice University in Houston, described the company, which has three employees, as a ''creative concern.'' 
 Many of the comments on the blog focus on the diversity of Houston, which is 40 percent Latino and a destination for many immigrants from developing countries. Many of the Nigerians and Indians who have settled here, for instance, say Houston's climate is one attraction.
 One comment on the site stated: ''I grew up in Detroit. There, people only saw differences in others. Here, in Houston, people live together and happily experience differences and others.'' Another simply said: ''I feel normal here. Maybe it is because I am imperfect like this city.'' Referring to Houston's rivalry with Dallas, one person wrote, ''The people here are less 'plastic-y' than in Big D.'' 
 ''The campaign resonates in part because it comes from the public itself, not from a chamber of commerce,'' said Stephen L. Klineberg, a professor of sociology at Rice University. ''As a city, we've advanced past the idea that we need to tell the world we have no problems here.'' 
 Of course, ttweak does not permit just any comment on the site. ''We have an abundant amount of massage parlors at competitive prices,'' was one remark that did not pass muster, Mr. Twaddle said. 
 Getting too unruly could defeat ttweak's commercial objective: selling merchandise over the Internet, like T-shirts, caps, mugs and umbrellas emblazoned with its slogan. 
 Mr. Thompson, ttweak's other partner, also said in an interview over espresso at the company's tidy offices that he would not be displeased if relocation companies used the slogan in their efforts to persuade businesses to move their headquarters to Houston. ''Where else can you find hundreds of votes of confidence in Houston in one swoop?'' Mr. Thompson asked. 
 Houstonians have long been concerned about outsiders' perceptions of their city, as illustrated 10 years ago during the National Basketball Association finals between the Houston Rockets and the New York Knicks. An uproar ensued when The New York Post ran a headline proclaiming, ''This Place Is a Hellhole.''
 More recently, Houstonians engaged in a bout of soul-searching over the aesthetic challenges of the city's concrete-and-billboard sprawl, which greeted people who attended the Super Bowl in February. 
 In some ways, ttweak hopes to achieve the same kind of recognition with its campaign as Las Vegas did with ''What Happens in Vegas Stays in Vegas,'' or New York with ''I Love New York.'' 
 Peter Marzio, a native of New York and the director of the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston for more than two decades, called the campaign ''edgy'' and ''imaginative.''
 ''The challenges here are like your drunken relative; you can't ignore these things,'' Mr. Marzio said. ''But they don't prevent you from achieving things that can only happen in Houston. This is the freest and most individualistic city I've ever lived in.'' 
 Small wonder that ttweak rounded off its list of afflictions with features that perhaps only a Houstonian could laugh at: The Pollen. The Air. The Short Springs. The Long Summers. The No Mountains. The Billboards. The Image. The Ridicule. 
 Or, as ttweak says on its Web site, ''A city must know itself before it can sell itself.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The campaign ''Houston. It's Worth It'' incorporates these images, shown on a wall in the ttweak marketing company's office in Houston. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRANDING (90%); WEATHER (90%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (75%); MARKETING STRATEGY (75%); AWARENESS MARKETING (75%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); MAYORS (70%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (64%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (64%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



430 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1768 words

HEADLINE: COST OF BENEFITS CITED AS FACTOR IN SLUMP IN JOBS

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER; Milt Freudenheim and Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
A relentless rise in the cost of employee health insurance has become a significant factor in the employment slump, as the labor market adds only a trickle of new jobs each month despite nearly three years of uninterrupted economic growth.
 Government data, industry surveys and interviews with employers big and small indicate that many businesses remain reluctant to hire full-time employees because health insurance, which now costs the nation's employers an average of about $3,000 a year for each worker, has become one of the fastest-growing costs for companies. Health premiums are sapping corporate balance sheets even more than the rising cost of energy. 
 In the second quarter, the cost of health benefits rose at a 12-month rate of 8.1 percent -- more than three times the inflation rate and the rate of increases in wages and salaries. 
 ''Health care is a major reason why employment growth has been so sluggish,'' said Sung Won Sohn, the chief economist at Wells Fargo. 
 Although the economy emerged from recession long ago, posting 11 straight quarters of growth, there are still about a million fewer jobs in the United States than there were at the beginning of 2001, just before the country sank into recession. 
 A spurt in job growth between March and May raised hopes that employment would emerge from the doldrums. But job growth slowed sharply again in June and came to a virtual standstill last month. In July, businesses added a mere 32,000 jobs, and for the first time this year more businesses let workers go than hired new ones. 
 Because of the cost of health insurance, ''we are making decisions not to hire people,'' said Steve Hayes, the owner of Custom Electronics in Falmouth, Me., which installs electronic systems like home theaters and communications networks in homes and offices. ''Before, we hired based on workload,'' he added. ''Now it's a question of affordability.''
 Mr. Hayes said his health insurance premiums had risen by 22 percent a year in the last four years. He now pays $4,150 a month in health insurance premiums for his 33 employees, and the workers contribute an equal amount from their own pockets. The company's revenue -- less than $5 million annually -- has been growing briskly, he said, but outlays for health benefits are growing even faster, eating into the company's profits.
 The increase in health insurance premiums reflects the rising cost of health care, which is being driven by expensive new drugs, many of them heavily advertised to consumers; medical advances including diagnostic tests that require costly new machines; and a reaction to past restrictions in managed care health plans that sought to rein in costs. 
 In the presidential campaign, both candidates have proposed measures for tackling the high cost of health insurance, including tax credits for small businesses and low-income people.
 President Bush has pointed out that consumers can buy relatively inexpensive, high-deductible insurance to protect against catastrophic illnesses and can pay for routine care with new tax-free health savings accounts. 
 He also favors pending legislation that would let small businesses get volume discounts by buying insurance through trade associations, a plan that is opposed by many insurers, state insurance officials and some influential Senate Republicans. Critics say they are concerned that those associations would be largely exempt from state regulation and their insurance pools might attract healthier people, driving up costs for those who stay in the traditional insurance market.
 Senator John Kerry's campaign plans to weigh in today with its own study of the link between rising health care costs and the employment slump. A summary of the report, which was prepared by Laura D. Tyson, who served as an economic adviser to President Bill Clinton, contends that industries with more health care benefits -- like automobile manufacturing -- have suffered the biggest losses in jobs and that those, like food service, that typically offer few benefits have realized the biggest gains.
 ''We're losing jobs in high-wage, high-benefits sectors like manufacturing, where employers are responding to this surge in health care costs,'' Ms. Tyson said in an interview yesterday. 
 A centerpiece of Mr. Kerry's plan would be to reduce health insurance premiums by having the federal government pick up 75 percent of the cost of catastrophic medical care. That would reduce the cost to employers and employees about 10 percent, or $1,000 a year, according to campaign officials.
 Businesses, meanwhile, are trying all kinds of coping strategies. Some companies have responded by shifting part of the health insurance burden onto their workers or by ratcheting up premiums and deductibles. Some have eliminated coverage for dependents, while others have canceled their medical plans altogether. Many have frozen or reduced wages to compensate for ever bigger health insurance bills. 
 ''Our health care costs are rising at three to four times the rate of increase of our revenues,'' said Michael Stoll, vice president for corporate benefits at the Kroger Company, a supermarket giant that owns several retail chains, including Ralph's, Food 4 Less and King Soopers, and employs 290,000 people around the nation. 
 Kroger, one of the targets of the five-month supermarket workers' strike in California that ended in March, reached an agreement with unions in that state to retain existing health benefits for current workers but to allow the company to offer new employees significantly curtailed health plans. 
 Trotter Machine, a small maker of parts for hydraulic valves in Rockford, Ill., has taken a different approach. In the last year, the company has doubled the employee's deductible on the company health plan, to $1,000 a year, and it has slowed wage increases -- all in response to the company's escalating health care premium, which has risen to $18,000 a month from less than $10,000 five years ago. 
 Trotter's business has picked up after two flat years, and the company has responded by adding 12 full-time jobs since last November, bringing the total to 65 full-time workers and 5 temporary positions. But health care inflation has instilled a new level of caution in the hiring process: 9 of the 12 new workers started off as temps, achieving full-time status only after three or four months on the job. 
 ''In the past we would hire people right out of the gate, and they could get on the health plan in 60 days,'' said Skip Trotter, the company's vice president for operations. ''Now we use temp services. I can keep a temp for 90 to 120 days, and the agency pays for the health benefits.'' 
 The lagging job market has contributed to brisk growth in the temporary employment industry, where jobs may or may not include health benefits. In July, 2.4 million people were working for temporary agencies, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. That was a 9 percent increase from a year earlier, compared with an overall increase in the labor force of 1 percent, to 131.2 million.
 Mr. Hayes, at Custom Electronics in Maine, says the soaring cost of health insurance has tempted him to do away with health benefits altogether. But he has held back. 
 ''You lose your best people, you don't lose your worst people,'' he said. ''I would rather fire more of the bad people and keep the benefit than risk losing my good people.''
 Other businesses are resorting to tactics of dubious legality to avoid the health care burden. 
 Phyllis Burlage, an accountant in Millersville, Md., whose clients include several small businesses, said rising health insurance costs were driving some employers to skirt age-discrimination law by hiring only younger workers as a way to reduce premiums. ''It's the deep dark secret of small businesses,'' Ms. Burlage said.
 Even though the economy emerged from recession in late 2001, unremitting international competition has led to continued financial restraint by American employers. They have been uncharacteristically reluctant to invest in capital equipment and have tried to wring as much productivity and profit as possible from their existing workers. 
 ''In other business cycles, businesses hired in anticipation of demand; that's no longer the case,'' Mr. Sohn of Wells Fargo said. ''Today businesses only hire people because they have to, to meet demand.''
 In this economic environment, rising health care costs are particularly burdensome because they increase labor costs even as wages are barely moving. In the second quarter, wages for private-sector workers increased 2.6 percent from the year before, according to the Labor Department's employment cost index. Yet the inflation rate for benefits, primarily for health insurance, was 7.3 percent, pushing total compensation costs up 4 percent. 
 The trade-off between health and wages has become a prime workplace topic. In 2002, Local 226 of the hotel and restaurant workers union in Las Vegas negotiated a contract agreement with casino and hotel operators for a blanket raise of 60 cents an hour, which the union could apportion between wages and health care. 
 The union considered the deal a victory because it allowed workers to maintain health care benefits at virtually no cost. In the first year of the contract, though, all of the increase ended up going to health care, leaving nothing for higher wages. ''It was the first time we had to sacrifice wages to health care,'' said Pilar Weiss, assistant political director of Local 226. 
 The growing portion of employee compensation used for health care ultimately depresses workers' ability to spend on other items. And health care outlays can, in turn, force automakers and other consumer-product companies to raise prices. 
 The Big Three automakers spent $8.5 billion last year on health care. General Motors estimates that providing health coverage for its workers and retirees adds about $1,400 to the price of each of its vehicles built in the United States. 
 Allan D. Gilmour, the vice chairman at Ford Motor, said it was difficult to trace a causal relationship between higher health care costs and weak employment, because hiring decisions were driven by many factors. But he agreed that escalating health care costs were a drag on the labor market. 
 ''Health is a larger and larger part of our compensation package,'' Mr. Gilmour said. ''It is hard to know what we are doing or not doing because of this. But on a macro level there's no question about it: this pressure comes to bear on everything we do.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 21, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Thursday about the economic effects of rising health insurance premiums misstated Kroger's role in a five-month supermarket labor dispute in California. The Ralph's chain, owned by Kroger, locked out union workers; they did not strike that chain, though they did strike chains operated by Safeway.


GRAPHIC: Photos: At Trotter Machine in Rockford, Ill., workers pay higher deductibles and new employees start as temporary workers, without benefits. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)
 Steve Hayes, owner of Custom Electronics in Falmouth, Me., said hiring had become ''a question of affordability'' rather than workload. (Photo by Herb Swanson for The New York Times)(pg. C2)Chart: ''A Costly Benefit''As the cost of employee health insurance rises, a smaller portion of the work force is covered by company health plans.Graph tracks private industry employers' average health care cost per employee* from 1993 to 2003.Graph tracks portion of private industry workers in a company health plan from 1993 to 2003.*Includes all companies and employees, both with and without health benefits(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (82%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); INFLATION (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (73%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (72%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); TAX LAW (60%); LAYOFFS (58%) Labor; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion; United States Economy; Recession and Depression; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health ; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Election Issues; Labor; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Fringe Benefits; Tests and Testing; Presidential Election of 2004; Labor

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKFORD, IL, USA (59%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



431 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DANCE REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Youth and Experience Join To Honor a Ballet Veteran

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING

DATELINE: TORRINGTON, Conn., Aug. 14 

 BODY:
Eleanor D'Antuono began her long career performing with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, which she joined at the ripe old age of 14. She went on to dance with the Joffrey Ballet and most notably with American Ballet Theater, where she performed for 25 years before leaving to teach, stage ballets and judge international ballet competitions. A ballerina who could perform just about everything, sometimes at very short notice, she has been the ultimate trouper but also a dancer known for the obvious pleasure she has taken in her work and in the passing along of her heritage. 
 Those qualities were honored on Saturday night by the Nutmeg Conservatory for the Arts in ''A Jubilee Celebration: Eleanor D'Antuono 50 Years in Dance,'' a gala program at the handsomely reclaimed old Warner Theater here. The theater is the anchor of downtown community redevelopment inspired by the conservatory, its ballet company and their sprawling complex of buildings. 
 The conservatory is also known for its training of young medalists in several of the most important competitions. And so it was fitting that the program should begin with a showpiece number for the conservatory's summer students. Choreographed by Joan Kunsch, the piece, ''Jubilee Overture,'' suggested that the young dancers had learned a great deal about onstage authority and the power of lyrical arms. 
 The students also served as a dream audience for the balance of the evening, cheering on their favorites and acknowledging technical feats with amusingly ear-splitting cries of delight. Ballet Theater's Ethan Stiefel teasingly played to the youngsters, dancing with an extra swagger in a truly dazzling performance of the pas de trios from ''Le Corsaire,'' with Gillian Murphy, almost frightening in her pyrotechnical daring and aplomb, and an earthily virtuosic Gennadi Saveliev. 
 There were also performances by dancers from the other companies Ms. D'Antuono has worked with as a dancer and behind the scenes and by alumni who have gone on to professional careers. 
 One highlight in the long but fast-flowing program was the flamelike dancing of Quinn Pendleton in a solo, choreographed by Vladimir Malakhov, from ''Cinderella.'' Mauro Villanueva, from the Joffrey Ballet Chicago, was affectingly melancholy in the prince's solo from ''Swan Lake.'' For sheer fun, though, nothing quite equaled Scott Thyberg's deliciously silly new ''Slice (or, Ballo D'Amore),'' set to Italian-American love songs. Set in a rustic cafe, the ballet was performed by dancers from the Nutmeg company and by alumni and included a solo for a pizza (Victoria Mazzarelli), complete with topping, in a segment danced to Dean Martin's rendition of ''That's Amore'' and Lou Monte's ''Roman Guitar.'' 
 The program's lead dancers also included Emily Patterson, Samuel Pergande, Rosie Ponte, Tanigato Yoshiyuki, Dominic Hodal, Katie Pivarnik, Martina Chavez, Christina Theryoung and David Tamaki. Cynthia Quinn, Yasmine Lee and Brian Simerson, all from the Momix company, also performed dances from that company's repertory. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Victoria Mazzarelli portrays a pizza in Scott Thyberg's ''Slice (or, Ballo D'Amore).'' (Photo by W.J. Carlson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (93%); DANCE COMPANIES (91%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); MUSIC (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) Dancing; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (58%) Nutmeg Conservatory For the Arts

PERSON: Jennifer Dunning; Eleanor D'antuono

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



432 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Set Record Again As Supply Falls

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 18 

 BODY:
Oil prices climbed above $47 a barrel on Wednesday, setting yet another record, after figures showed supplies in the United States were down for a third consecutive week and a report from OPEC highlighted the threat of high oil prices for world economies. 
 Crude oil for September delivery settled at $47.27 a barrel in New York, up 52 cents, after rising as high as $47.45. Futures prices are up about $10 a barrel since the end of June. 
 Fears of disruptions in major producing nations, including Iraq, Russia and Venezuela, have pushed prices up by more than half since the beginning of the year. At the same time, robust demand from Asia, and particularly China, has swelled the demand for more oil this year. 
 ''OPEC produces almost at capacity while you have very strong demand -- that's pressuring the market,'' said Muhammad-Ali Zainy, an energy analyst at the Center for Global Energy Studies, based in London. ''If there are supply disruptions you'll see a spike in prices because we have little or no cushions left. On top of that, there are concerns about Iraq and Saudi Arabia.'' 
 For the last nine days, Iraq's exports have been cut in half, to a million barrels a day, after the country's southern pipeline was partly shut following threats on Aug. 8. That has taken greatly needed oil out of the market, analysts said, at a time when other producers cannot make up for it. 
 ''Whatever spare production capacity the market thought was out there has been wiped out by what's happening in Iraq,'' said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York. ''The market is very fragile.'' 
 Oil prices rose after the Energy Department's weekly figures showed that stockpiles in the United States fell 1.3 million barrels, to 293 million barrels, in the week ended Friday. 
 Demand is growing as well, according to OPEC's monthly oil report released Wednesday. The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries raised its forecast for global oil consumption this year to 81.18 million barrels a day, up 280,000 barrels from an earlier estimate. 
 While the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index reached a 2004 low last week on concern that high oil prices would stifle economic growth, there was some evidence this week pointing to the contrary. 
 United States consumer prices fell in July for the first time in eight months, indicating inflation was in check despite high oil prices, the government reported Tuesday. 
 Still, the pace of economic growth slowed in the second quarter, as consumers were faced with higher energy bills and cut spending elsewhere, figures from the Commerce Department showed last month. 
 OPEC, which produces a third of the world's crude oil, insisted high prices had not had much effect on global growth yet. ''The direct contribution of the concern-driven rise in oil prices to the economic slowdown in 2004 has been very small,'' OPEC said. 
 OPEC said it provided ''adequate supplies to the market to meet the record-breaking levels of demand and at no stage was the upturn in the world economy threatened by supply shortages.'' 
 Still, OPEC acknowledged that should prices remain high, world growth would be hurt, especially if OPEC's reference price, the average of a basket of seven types of crude oil, remained above $35 a barrel. It was valued at $41.75 a barrel on Tuesday. 
 Oil's importance to the world economy has declined over the last two decades but remains a crucial factor for growth. In 1980, expenditures on oil in real terms amounted to more than 6 percent of United States gross domestic product. That has dropped to less than 2 percent today, according to Deutsche Bank. 
 However, an increase of $5 a barrel in the price of oil can shave as much as half a percentage point off global growth in the next year or two. 
 ''Of course there's a high correlation between oil prices and economic growth,'' Mr. Zainy said. ''But economies will behave differently according to their characteristics. China or India will be much more affected than the United States for example.'' 
 The OPEC reference price has averaged $33.45 a barrel so far this year, up $5 from last year. It has been above the high end of OPEC's reference band of $22 to $28 a barrel since early December 2003. 
 OPEC knows that high prices threaten to reduce demand as consumers turn to other fuels or more stringent energy-conservation measures. That is why top officials have come forward repeatedly in past weeks to say OPEC is doing all it can to help bring prices down. 
 On Aug. 4, Purnomo Yusgiantoro, the Indonesian oil minister and OPEC president, said he was ''concerned'' by the price increase and said OPEC still had as much as 1.5 million barrels a day of spare capacity, a figure many analysts viewed as too high. 
 Last week, it was the turn of Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister and the most influential OPEC member, to step in and say Saudi Arabia was pumping 9.3 million barrels a day and could add 1.3 million. 
 And when that failed to stem the price increase, Crown Prince Abdullah himself gave an interview to Kuwaiti newspapers this week telling them he favored oil at $25 to $30 a barrel. 
 Anything above that might hurt developing economies, he said in comments published Tuesday. 
 Still, prices are rising. 
 ''Frankly, OPEC is enjoying the higher prices even as they try to boost production,'' Mr. Zainy said. ''It's a demand-led market and not some manipulation by OPEC.'' 
 The OPEC report also highlighted the group's limited spare capacity. Its 11 members are pumping 30 million barrels a day and can lift production to 30.5 million barrels next month, OPEC said. 
 Excluding Iraq, where production has been patchy since April of last year because of attacks on oil installations and pipelines, OPEC's official ceiling is 26 million barrels a day. OPEC disputed suggestions that it was not bringing enough crude on the market. 
 ''On current trends, OPEC production will be more than adequate to meet demand in the remainder of 2004 and 2005,'' OPEC said in its report. OPEC ministers meet next on Sept. 15 in Vienna.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An oil refinery near Bakersfield, Calif. OPEC is producing oil near its capacity as demand continued to climb. Analysts said any disruption in supply could cause a spike in the price of crude oil, now at $47.27 a barrel. (Photo by David McNew/Getty Images)(pg. C5)Chart: ''A Slump in Inventory''Commercial crude-oil stocks in the United States fell last week for the third consecutive week.Graph tracks commercial crude-oil stocks from June 4 to August 13.(Source by Energy Information Administration)(pg. C1)Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since March 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. (pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); FUTURES (74%); ENERGY RESEARCH (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (93%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



433 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Deal to Ship Russian Gas to U.S. Is Said to Be Close

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, Aug. 18 

 BODY:
Russian liquefied natural gas would be shipped across the Pacific to help power California under a contract that is in ''very, very advanced'' negotiations, according to a corporate executive on Sakhalin Island, Russia's new energy production center in the Pacific.
 The gas would go to a terminal in Northern Mexico from a plant on Sakhalin that is to open in 2007, becoming Russia's first plant to chill natural gas for shipping, according to Andy Calitz, commercial director of the Sakhalin Energy Investment Company, a production consortium led by Royal Dutch/Shell.
 Although occasional tankers of oil have crossed the Pacific this summer, sailing from Sakhalin to Hawaii and Alaska, the new deal would give a big lift to faltering efforts by Russia and the United States to cooperate on energy.
 ''We are prepared to ship gas and oil directly to the United States,'' Alexander Losyukov, Russia's ambassador to Japan, said Tuesday, alluding to the gas contract, which received official Russian approval last month. ''We want to be a reliable supplier, probably more reliable than the Middle East.'' 
 The buyer, a Shell-Sempra Energy joint venture, is expected to give final approval to the contract in September. By December, this group expects to break ground on a $600 million regasification plant in Mexico. The plant in Ensenada, about 80 miles south of San Diego, would turn superchilled liquid into gas to be moved by pipeline to Northern Mexico and Southern California. The plant is to be ready in 2007, the year that the Sakhalin plant would be ready on the Asian side of the Pacific.
 ''We offer a much lower shipping rate,'' Mr. Calitz said Wednesday by telephone from Sakhalin, noting that the new plant will be only a 12-day sail from Mexico, compared with 20 days from Australia or 27 days from Qatar. ''It's also a political decision. Where in the world do you want your energy to flow from? From Qatar or Indonesia? Or from Russia or Australia?'' 
 That issue was addressed in June by Spencer Abraham, the United States energy secretary, during a visit to Moscow. ''Our goal is to diversify our access to energy exports from around the world,'' he said. 
 With oil approaching $50 a barrel, Americans are now jostling with Japanese, Chinese and Koreans to lock in contracts in Sakhalin, where the oil and gas reserves are sometimes compared to those on the North Slope of Alaska.
 ''Sakhalin oil will soon be delivered to Japan,'' Soichi Nakagawa, Japan's economy, trade and industry minister, said Tuesday during a visit to Sakhalin, the first to the island by a high Japanese government official since the end of World War II. Japanese companies are minority investors in Sakhalin Energy and in another oil and gas project led by Exxon Mobil.
 ''Because we are neighbors, all economic sectors are promising,'' he said before inspecting offshore production platforms and the construction site for the liquefied natural gas factory, all part of $22 billion in energy investments on the island.
 Also with an eye to Sakhalin, the Korea Gas Corporation, the world's biggest buyer of liquefied natural gas, plans to invite companies on Friday to submit bids for a 20-year supply contract that could be worth $25 billion. With South Korea's energy needs expected to double over the next 15 years, Kogas may look favorably on Sakhalin, only three days away by ship.
 Kogas and Gazprom, Russia's gas export company, talked this summer about constructing a $5 billion pipeline that would bring Sakhalin gas to Korea.
 In China, where demand for natural gas is expected to increase fivefold, to 21 billion cubic meters, by 2020, Sinopec, a major state energy company, has sent three missions to Sakhalin in the last year. It is now expected to make an offer to buy into the project, which is shared by Shell and two Japanese companies, the Mitsubishi Corporation and Mitsui & Company.
 ''Why not China, which is stationed so close, which is feeling a great need for energy resources?'' Mr. Losyukov, the Russian ambassador to Japan, asked in an interview, brushing aside concerns that Moscow might veto a major Chinese investment in energy.
 The ambassador, formerly Russia's deputy foreign minister for Asian-Pacific affairs, is the senior Russian diplomat in North Asia. Since arriving here last spring, he has played the role of umpire among countries competing for Russian oil and gas.
 ''Japan and China are our most promising partners in the energy area,'' he said, when asked about a growing resource rivalry between Asia's two economic titans. ''We don't have to take sides in this kind of competition.''
 But many oil experts in the region believe the race for resources is just beginning.
 ''Rivalry for energy, especially oil, between China and Japan on a global scale is unavoidable,'' Zhang Kexi, a commentator, wrote last month in The China Daily, a state-controlled publication. ''It is likely that China will forever encounter Japan's global energy rivalry, just as the ongoing pipeline route dispute between China and Japan shows.''
 Indeed, it looks as if China has lost one round on a major oil pipeline. Russia appears to want to build a pipeline to the Pacific to export Eastern Siberian oil. Fearful that a pipeline to China would make Russia captive to a single buyer, Moscow wants to take oil to its Pacific port of Nakhodka, where it could then go to a wide range of markets, including the United States. The Bush administration favors the Pacific port approach as Eastern Siberia could become a new source of oil for the West Coast of the United States.
 ''The whole project is in the final stages of preparation,'' the Russian ambassador said, referring to what could be a 2,500-mile, $12 billion pipeline to the Sea of Japan, largely financed with Japanese money. ''The final decision will be announced in early fall, probably September or October.''
 Oil shipments are to start from Perevoznaya, a port near Nakhodka, in 2006, four years earlier than originally planned, according to an announcement made last month by Transneft, Russia's state oil transport company. Next year, work is to start near Lake Baikal on the first 600 miles of this pipeline.
 To help fill the pipe, Japan advanced $75 million to Russia this summer to help measure oil reservoirs along the rail route.
 To speed the oil to market while the pipeline is being built, Gennadi Fadeyev, president of Russian Railways, announced plans last month to invest $140 million to upgrade the trans-Siberian railroad to transport oil from the end of the existing pipeline to the port at Perevoznaya, on the Pacific.
 Japan and South Korea, which are equidistant from Vladivostok, import all their oil, largely from the Middle East. China, slightly farther away, has swung in recent years from being an oil-exporting nation to being the world's second-largest oil importer, after the United States. By 2020, China will have to import half of its oil.
 Next summer, Exxon Mobil plans to start pumping crude from a field near Sakhalin. The production pace is to average 250,000 barrels a day, a rate equal to 3 percent of Russia's total output.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 21, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business on Thursday about a potential deal to ship liquefied natural gas from Sakhalin Island in Russia to Mexico misspelled the given name of the Japanese minister of economy, trade and industry, who said he expected oil from Sakhalin to be exported to Japan. He is Shoichi Nakagawa, not Soichi.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Drilling platforms for gas and oil at Sakhalin Energy's projects in Russia's Far East. Liquefied natural gas would be sent across the Pacific. (Photo by Peter Blakely for The New York Times)(pg. W7)Map of Asia and North America highlighting Sakhalin Island and Ensenada: Russia would ship liquefied natural gas from Sakhalin Island to Ensenada, Mexico, where it would be sent as gas by pipeline to California. (pg. W1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CONTRACTS LAW (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (78%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SEMPRA ENERGY (90%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%)

TICKER: SRE (NYSE) (90%); RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); MEXICO (95%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); QATAR (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



434 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Lie or Not, Numbers Don't Complain: Subway System Planners Feel Vindicated by Survey

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
Success can be an elusive totem in the world of rail service design, mainly because people like to complain. ''You can never satisfy everybody,'' said Glenn S. Lunden, a planner for New York City Transit. 
 So, after the drastic scrambling of the subway map between Brooklyn and Manhattan six months ago that affected 600,000 riders, there was the inevitable deluge of telephone calls and letters. The redrawing was prompted by the restoration of all four subway tracks over the Manhattan Bridge for the first significant period since 1986. Planners heard a lot of complaints, but they wanted hard numbers, so they set out to analyze ridership statistics and poll people on platforms. 
 The results, tabulated recently, paint a rosy picture, said members of the operations planning unit at New York City Transit. 
 ''We're basically satisfying 77 percent of the customers,'' Peter G. Cafiero, director of rail service design, said last week.
 In April, two months after the changes, transit workers polled about 2,000 riders, asking them this simple question: Do you prefer the way the service is now, or the way it was before? As it turns out, about 48 percent said they preferred the new service, and 29 percent said either way was fine. Only 23 percent said they preferred the old. 
 Study the ridership information more closely, planners said, and the logic behind each route change comes into focus.
 The main goal in the changes was to send more trains over the Manhattan Bridge, bypassing Lower Manhattan, because planners discovered that three-quarters of riders wanted to go that way, while only half the trains running between Brooklyn and Manhattan during rush hour were doing it. 
 With 36 trains a day now going over the bridge during peak times, compared with 27 before, average weekday ridership over the bridge is up nearly 19 percent, while on slower routes that go through tunnels into Lower Manhattan, it is down 28 percent on the M and R trains and 16 percent on F trains.
 ''These were people who were going to Midtown but were taking slower routes before,'' Mr. Cafiero said. 
 Statistics on individual lines confirmed the Midtown trend. The Sea Beach line, served by N trains that now go over the bridge, had an increase in passengers of nearly 10 percent. Meanwhile, ridership on the Culver Line, served by F trains that wind through Lower Manhattan, fell by 6.4 percent at stations near N train stations in Brooklyn. In other words, thousands of people are choosing to walk to the N train station for the faster route over the bridge. 
 Another central feature was the decision to route trains in the Brighton line along both the Avenue of Americas and Broadway during weekdays. In 2001, when work was finally completed on the southern side of the Manhattan Bridge and lines were scrambled so work could start up the north, those on the Brighton line suddenly found their trains heading up Broadway, after more than a decade of heading up Avenue of the Americas. Transit workers asked riders which they preferred. A majority, they found, preferred Broadway, but a sizable percentage liked the other option. 
 Sure enough, in their new survey, they found that 53 percent of bridge riders during peak hours were on trains that headed up Broadway, compared with 47 percent on Avenue of the Americas trains. 
 The most striking statistics involve Chinatown, which has endured strong swings in service as work on the bridge proceeded so slowly. ''Chinatown has seen just enormous changes in service over the years,'' Mr. Lunden said. ''We focused on seeing what was happening there.'' 
 The numbers seem to point to a rebirth. After dropping significantly over the two years when the Grand Street station was all but abandoned because of repairs on the bridge, ridership at three stations in Chinatown -- Grand Street, Canal Street and East Broadway -- has returned to the levels before the terrorist attack on Sept. 11, 2001. 
 Perhaps more telling, weekend ridership has grown 14 percent after the changes, returning to roughly what it was before the attack as well. 
 ''In the economic climate that we're in, that's good news for Chinatown,'' said Paul Fleuranges, a New York City Transit spokesman. 
 Many in Lower Manhattan who use the Broadway line have complained that they have only the R train to return to Brooklyn, so they have to wait longer for trains. But statistics show that the trains are still only at 45 percent of maximum load guidelines, meaning the numbers do not justify more service. 
 ''We were over-serving downtown before,'' said Keith J. Hom, director of operations planning for New York City Transit. 
 Given the popularity of the B train, among the biggest complaints has been the decision to halt the service during late nights and on weekends. But in this case, transit planners said, operational constraints prevent them from doing anything more. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ayyaz Chowdhry of Brooklyn taking the D train over the Manhattan Bridge on Tuesday. More riders are taking Midtown trains these days. (Photo by Diane Bondareff for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); TRAINS (78%); TRENDS (74%) Transit Systems; Subways ; Manhattan Bridge (NYC); Public Opinion; Transit Systems

ORGANIZATION: New York City Transit

PERSON: Michael Luo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



435 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Yankees Glimpse October, and It's Not Pretty

BYLINE: By JACK CURRY

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, Aug. 18 

 BODY:
Once the erratic Mike Mussina trudged through a shoddy fourth inning Wednesday night, Tanyon Sturtze stopped warming up and returned to his seat in the Yankees' bullpen in right field. Sturtze sat down for only a few seconds before jumping up as if someone had set his cap on fire and feverishly began throwing again. 
 The Yankees needed help. They needed another pitcher because Mussina was futile, Minnesota's Johan Santana was fantastic and any semblance of a game against the Twins was fading before the fifth inning. 
 There was no more suspense as Santana dominated the Yankees while powering the Twins to a 7-2 victory at the Metrodome. 
 Santana then gushed about the Yankees as one of the premier teams in baseball and also embraced the possibility of facing them in the postseason for the second straight year. 
 ''Oh, definitely,'' Santana said when asked if he would like to oppose the Yankees in October. ''If we have to see them, we'll see them.''
 Manager Joe Torre said Santana, who allowed two runs in seven innings and is now 11-2 with a 1.73 earned run average in his last 14 starts, is ''as good a pitcher as we've faced in a while.'' 
 When Torre was asked before the game if Santana could make the Twins dangerous in a five-game series, something the Yankees might have to experience, he said: ''This kid? Sure he could.''
 Again, that was before Santana stifled Torre's team and before he spoke confidently about doing it again in the playoffs.
 On a night when Santana was superb, Mussina was inconsistent as he returned from a stiff right elbow to make his first start since July 6. Mussina labored during a 68-pitch effort in which he threw almost as many balls as strikes and allowed four earned runs, five hits and two walks in four innings. 
 Torre said, ''That's not Mike Mussina,'' adding that the Yankees must be patient with him.
 Mussina, who is now 20-3 against the Twins, was scheduled to go five innings. The Yankees were not expecting him to retire 15 straight, but they thought he could keep them close while pitching economically and regaining his strength. Mussina did none of those things.
 Once again, the Yankees' comfort level does not seem to coincide with how a team with the best record in the American League should feel. Unless the Yankees get better performances from their starters, they look more flawed than formidable. Mussina and Javier Vazquez returned from injuries in the first two games here, but each was glaringly ineffective.
 ''I understand it's not going to be the way it was just yet,'' Mussina said. ''You hope for a little better command of the baseball, but you just don't know. I really wasn't too disappointed.'' 
 Torre's hope was that Mussina would get comfortable early and not have to throw too many pitches. So Torre must have grimaced when Shannon Stewart smashed Mussina's second pitch over the left-field fence. Mussina dropped his head after Stewart made contact and did not need to peek over his shoulder to see where the ball landed.
 Mussina relies on location, but he had little against the Twins, who lead the American League Central by four games. He threw first-pitch balls to six of the first seven hitters, allowed the leadoff runner to reach base in all four innings and issued four-pitch walks to two of the first six Twins. On the positive side, Mussina's elbow was fine. 
 Everything unraveled after Mussina hit Lew Ford with a fastball to start the fourth. Corey Koskie followed with a broken-bat double that pushed Ford to third, and Cristian Guzman doubled off the right-center-field fence to deliver two runs. Stewart's double made the score 4-0.
 The four-run deficit had to feel more deflating to the Yankees because of Santana. He has a fastball, a slider and a changeup, but throws all of them from the same arm angle and motion, so it is difficult to guess what is coming. He has struck out 135 and walked 22 in his last 1041/3. innings and said the Twins felt comfortable opposing the Yankees.
 ''We feel we can play against them,'' Santana said. 
 Santana lost to the Yankees in the clinching game of the division series last October and waited 10 months to face them again. When he got the chance Wednesday, he excelled.
 Now the Yankees might have to worry about how Santana will do against them this October. Actually, the Yankees need to be more worried about their own pitchers first. 

INSIDE PITCH
 Alex Rodriguez finished serving his four-game suspension on Wednesday and will start at third base on Thursday. Rodriguez is still coughing because of his viral infection, but he is strong enough to play. With MIKE MUSSINA activated, infielder Andy Phillips was optioned to Class AAA Columbus. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Mussina returned to the Yankees' rotation and allowed four earned runs and five hits in four innings. (Photo by Tom Olmscheid/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); MINNESOTA TWINS (93%) Minnesota Twins; New York Yankees

PERSON: Jack Curry

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



436 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMPANY NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: ARBITRON REACHES DEAL TO PROVIDE RATINGS TO INFINITY

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Arbitron Inc., which compiles television and radio ratings, said it had agreed to supply quarterly radio ratings to the Infinity Broadcasting Corporation unit of Viacom Inc., setting off a 10 percent gain in Arbitron's share price. 
Arbitron said on Tuesday that it would supply 185 Infinity stations with audience ratings in 42 markets. Financial terms were not disclosed. Arbitron said in June that Infinity had decided not to renew its contract. With the agreement, Arbitron's 2004 earnings will rise to $1.75 to $1.79 a share, from $1.63 last year, the company said in a separate statement. Stock in Arbitron, based in New York, rose $3.35 yesterday, to $37.80 a share. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (91%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ARBITRON INC (98%); INFINITY BROADCASTING CORP (91%); VIACOM INC (91%)

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (98%); VIA (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (98%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (98%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (98%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (98%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



437 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Google Is Set to Trade After Selling Shares at $85
Google, conceding that demand for its long-awaited public stock offering had fallen far short of the company's hopes, reduced the number of shares and drastically reduced the target price range.
 The final price was $85, far off the target range of $108 to $135 a share that the company had projected last month. The company's shares are expected to begin trading today on the Nasdaq market. [Page A1.]

Stocks Rise for a Fourth Day
Stocks rose, extending a rally. The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average finished up 110.32 points, or 1.11 percent, at 10,083.15. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 13.46 points, or 1.24 percent, to 1,095.17. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 36.12 points, or 2.01 percent, to 1,831.37. [C5.]

S.E.C. Sets New Rules on Funds
The Securities and Exchange Commission ordered mutual funds to stop paying higher commissions to brokers who promote the companies' funds. It also required portfolio managers to reveal investments in funds they supervise. ''These rules effectively complement the comprehensive mutual reform efforts that have been under way since last fall,'' said the agency's chairman, William H. Donaldson, above. [C3. ]

Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance company, said that it may face civil action from the Securities and Exchange Commission. [C2.]

Health Costs Hold Back Hiring
Businesses say they are reluctant to hire full-time workers because of the rising cost of health care. [A1.]

Parmalat Sues Former Auditors
Parmalat, the Italian food and dairy company, sued its two former auditing firms. [C5.]

Airlines Agree to Chicago Cuts
The nation's two largest airlines, American and United, announced that they would cut flights at O'Hare International Airport to ease congestion. [A22.]

Cox to Consider Parent's Bid
Cox Communications, the cable television operator, has formed a committee to consider the $7.9 billion bid by its parent, Cox Enterprises, to take the company private. [C4.]

Ownership of Gazprom Questioned
A Russian lawmaker demanded an investigation into whether foreigners illegally bought Gazprom shares that only Russians may own. [World Business, Section W.]

Yearly Profit Surges at BHP
BHP Billiton, the world's largest mining company, reported a nearly 78 percent yearly rise in profit, its highest ever, as it increased production to meet the rising demand from China that bolstered prices for its copper, zinc, silver and lead. The shares fell in Australia, where the company is based, but rose in the United States. [World Business, Section W.]

Decision in Boxing Show Dispute
Both sides in the dispute over dueling boxing reality shows claimed vindication after a decision from a California judge. [C4.]

When the Owner Is Underpaid
Many entrepreneurs who can sign their own paychecks fail to pay themselves what they are worth, experts say. Small Business. [C3.]

How to Define a Good Job
In the debate over job quality, a clear definition of a good job is important. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,083.15 up 110.32Nasdaq composite -- 1,831.37 up 36.1210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.24% up 0.05The euro -- $1.2324 down 0.0020The dollar -- 109.34 yen down 0.68Graph: ''TODAY'' shows leading indicators from January to June.Leading IndicatorsJuly figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.1%Graph tracks the daily closing price of BHP Billiton A.D.R.'s shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); AIRPORTS (86%); NONFERROUS METAL PRODUCTION (84%); LEAD & ZINC MINING (84%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMMISSION PAY (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); GOING PRIVATE (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); ACCOUNTING (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); LITIGATION (69%); AUDITS (68%); AIRLINES (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); COPPER MINING (64%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (63%); REALITY TELEVISION (61%); MINES & MINING (60%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (50%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (90%); BHP BILLITON PLC (81%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (67%); OAO GAZPROM (64%); PARMALAT SPA (53%); COX COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%); BLT (LSE) (81%); BIBLT (JSE) (81%); BBL (NYSE) (81%); OGZD (LSE) (64%); GAZP (RTS) (64%); PLT (BIT) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (81%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (81%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (81%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (81%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (81%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (67%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (67%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (67%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (64%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (64%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (64%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (53%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (53%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (53%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); AUSTRALIA (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



438 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Profit Surges at Australian Mining Giant

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

 BODY:
BHP Billiton reported yesterday that its annual profit rose 77.7 percent, to its highest ever, as it increased production to meet the rising demand from China that bolstered prices for its copper, zinc, silver and lead.
 ''This has been a record year for BHP Billiton, both operationally and financially,'' Christopher Lynch, the chief financial officer, said in a presentation to analysts and shareholders.
 BHP Billiton, the world's largest mining company, said its net profit in the year ended June 30 rose 77.7 percent, to a record $3.38 billion, on a 42.5 percent increase in sales, to $24.94 billion. In a year marred by the deaths of 17 workers at the company's operations, BHP produced record amounts of several commodities, including iron ore, manganese and alumina. 
 BHP Billiton said it would pay a dividend of 9.5 cents a share, 26.7 percent higher than it paid in its previous fiscal year. It also said it would consider buying back shares or acquiring new assets.
 ''At the end of the day, it's a great result,'' said Neil Goodwill, a resources analyst at Goldman Sachs JBWere in Melbourne, where BHP Billiton, a British-Australian company, has its headquarters.
 Some investors, however, sold the stock, which had risen to a record in trading Tuesday. BHP Billiton's shares fell 18 Australian cents, or 1.4 percent, to close at 13.15 Australian dollars, or $9.43, in Sydney. In afternoon trading in London, the shares fell by a similar amount.
 Mr. Lynch said higher commodity prices contributed a windfall of $1.7 billion. And while BHP Billiton expects prices to fall as other miners increase production, it said demand would remain strong worldwide.
 Even in the United States, where recent data has somewhat damped growth expectations, industrial demand for metals remained strong, according to Charles Goodyear, BHP Billiton's chief executive.
 But China stood out in terms of growth. Sales of iron ore, nickel, coal for making coke, and other commodities to China more than doubled last year, Mr. Goodyear said, and China now accounts for 10 percent of BHP Billiton's revenue, up from roughly 7 percent the year before.
 Despite recent efforts by China's government to cool the country's economy and prevent a potentially disastrous collapse in asset prices, demand for commodities remained strong, Mr. Goodyear said. ''Although you hear about China slowing down, remember that it's slowing from a blistering pace to an exciting pace,'' he said.
 Analysts agreed that China would continue to underpin global demand for commodities.
 ''China is the reason why commodity prices are high,'' said Peter Harris, senior materials analyst at Commonwealth Securities in Melbourne. ''It's moving the pricing power away from the end users such as the Japanese steel makers and back to the resource companies like BHP.''
 While record production of iron ore comprised the bulk of BHP Billiton's production, copper remained the star contributor to earnings. Increased production at the company's jointly owned Escondida copper mine in Chile, combined with a 56 percent increase in copper prices, helped contribute nearly $900 million to the company's bottom line. Profit at the base metals division, which includes copper as well as lead and zinc, tripled on a 75 percent increase in sales.
 BHP's results also showed that it has become a big oil company. Petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas now account for the largest share of BHP's sales, displacing both aluminum and iron ore. Petroleum sales rose 70.3 percent, to $5.56 billion, contributing $1.39 billion in profit to the company's bottom line, making petroleum the largest source of BHP's earnings.
 Much of this gain was a result of rising energy prices. BHP's own production of hydrocarbon fuels rose only about 1 percent as rising production of natural gas was offset by dwindling production from older Australian wells.
 BHP's strong results in petroleum products stood in contrast to those at another Australian oil company, Woodside Petroleum, which on announced yesterday that its oil and gas revenues dropped by 11 percent. BHP Billiton owns a stake in Australia's North West Shelf natural gas project, which is majority-owned and operated by Woodside.
 BHP Billiton's profit margins also showed a marked increase, to 29.8 percent from 24.3 percent the year before. BHP executives emphasized that higher commodity prices were not the only reason for the increase. Efforts to cut costs had also paid off, they said. The company's increasing exposure to oil markets, for example, enabled it to procure cheaper fuel for its mineral operations, Mr. Goodyear said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Iron ore being processed at a BHP Billiton plant in the Pilbra region of Western Australia. (Photo by Regis Martin for The New York Times)
 Charles Goodyear, chief of the British-Australian mining giant BHP Billiton, said demand from China was a big factor in the strong profits. (Photo by William West/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONFERROUS METAL PRODUCTION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); COPPER MINING (90%); LEAD & ZINC MINING (90%); MANGANESE MINING (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); NICKEL MINING (89%); COAL MARKETS (88%); DIVIDENDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (76%); COAL MINING (76%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BHP BILLITON PLC (95%); GOLDMAN SACHS JBWERE PTY LTD (58%)

TICKER: BLT (LSE) (95%); BIBLT (JSE) (95%); BBL (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (95%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (95%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (95%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (95%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (91%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%) WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (79%) CHINA (98%); AUSTRALIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



439 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Babies and Bath Water

BYLINE: By DAHLIA LITHWICK. 
Dahlia Lithwick, a senior editor at Slate, is a guest columnist during August. Thomas L. Friedman is on leave until October, writing a book.

 BODY:
Maybe it's just that I'm having too many long talks with my 16-month-old these days, but I find myself sensitive to the language of ''daddies'' and ''dummies.'' This is the language of toddlerhood; it's not how we should be framing a national conversation about the president.
 It cannot have escaped anyone's notice that much of the current Bush-bashing aims to infantilize him. The most devastating segment in Michael Moore's ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' for instance, features the president -- just after he learned of the second attack on the World Trade Center -- perched on a chair in a Florida classroom, looking glazed and confused as he listens to a reading of ''The Pet Goat.'' Mr. Bush's aide might well have whispered the news to one of the assembled students to greater effect, and the implication is inescapable: for seven long minutes, the president was Not a Man. 
 A glance at the top 150 ads selected by MoveOn.org for its recent political advertising contest, ''Bush in 30 Seconds,'' similarly reveals the extent to which childishness is woven into the current Bush-bashing. While children have long been used in political ads to represent the future, many of the MoveOn entries use them to satirize the actual candidate. Several of the proposed anti-Bush commercials use kids to condemn the president for unsophisticated thinking, for an infantile worldview, for the fact that his daddy purchased his every big break and for the fact that he is desperately beholden to the wealthy and powerful grown-ups surrounding him. The clear message is that Mr. Bush is more a child than an adult.
 What's wrong with continuing efforts to characterize Mr. Bush as a not-particularly-smart third grader? For one thing, it plays to every stereotype of liberals as snotty know-it-alls who think everyone in a red state is anti-intellectual or simple-minded. It answers name-calling from the right with name-calling from the left. 
 These assertions also insult anyone who voted for Mr. Bush in 2000. Rather than offering an argument for John Kerry, they merely disparage swing voters, who may be tempted to defect to the Democrats over the war or the economy, by sneering that they voted for a kid -- and a dumb kid at that.
 One of the most enduring memories from the Bush-Gore debates in 2000 was Al Gore, all sighs and eye-rolls, trapped in what must have felt like the middle-school playground fight from hell instead of a presidential debate. Everything about Mr. Gore's demeanor signaled that he felt he was giving a punk kid a much-needed scolding. Which missed the point: a lot of very smart people voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 because to them, he represented a return to honesty and morality. Dismissing him as a stupid child, and these voters as stupid-children-by-association, is no way to win them back.
 Furthermore, the campaign to cast Mr. Bush as a bumbling child ignores the very grown-up machine that stands behind him. Infantilizing the president shifts the focus away from the Cheneys, Rumsfelds, Ashcrofts and Wolfowitzes. These are the men who promised us short, easy wars and painless little suspensions of the Geneva Conventions. These are the men of the secret energy-policy meetings. They aren't a bunch of rowdy juveniles. They represent one of the most secretive, powerful administrations in recent memory. Whether the president could outscore your kids on the SAT is a distraction from that fact. 
 Finally, there is a psychological consequence to labeling the president an incurious frat boy. With each attempt to cast Mr. Bush as a baby, we craft excuses for his childish behaviors. If Mr. Bush misled us into a war in Iraq, it's because children have trouble telling the truth. If Mr. Bush sees the world in too-stark terms, it's because nuanced reasoning isn't easy for children. With each comparison between the president and a youngster, we subtly lower national expectations and exonerate bad behavior. 
 This election is not a choice between adults and children, and it will not be won or lost with jokes about whether Laura ties the president's shoes each morning before she points him toward the Oval Office. Nothing will be gained by offering Mr. Bush even a metaphorical second childhood. Much may be gained by offering our real children a safe and just first one. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (86%); POLITICS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%) Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; United States Politics and Government; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2000; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: AL GORE (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Dahlia Lithwick; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



440 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Crude Oil Prices Rise To Yet Another Record
Oil prices climbed above $47 a barrel, setting yet another record, after figures showed that supplies in the United States were down for a third consecutive week and a report from OPEC highlighted the threat of high oil prices for world economies. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Kerry Critical of Troop Plan
John Kerry told a veterans' group that the president's plan to move troops out of Europe and Asia was vague and ill-advised. PAGE A27

Restoring Florida's Power
Crews from as far away as Wisconsin are pitching in, but five days after Hurricane Charley struck Florida, more than 400,000 customers still lack electricity. PAGE A28

Corzine Won't Push for Race
Senator Jon S. Corzine said he accepted the decision of Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey to remain in office until Nov. 15, and would not push for a special election. PAGE B1


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Gary I. Rothstein for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (85%); ELECTIONS (72%); VETERANS (70%); HURRICANES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (58%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JON CORZINE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



441 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Voters Show Concern Over Security and Foreign Affairs

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 18 

 BODY:
For the first time in decades, foreign affairs and national security issues have emerged in the American presidential campaign as greater concerns among voters than economic matters, according to a new survey.
 The survey released Wednesday by the independent Pew Research Center, found that 4 in 10 Americans now cite international and defense issues as the most important problems confronting the country. Only 1 in 4 mentioned economic concerns. 
 Not since 1972, during the Vietnam War, have security concerns and foreign affairs issues dominated at this point in a campaign, the survey's authors said. The survey suggests that views on Iraq and the administration's success or failure in overcoming violent opposition there could decisively influence the race between President Bush and Senator John Kerry, according to the Pew director, Andrew Kohut. 
 This could make Iraq a ''tipping point'' or a ''trump card'' in the coming campaign, he said.
 The study found that Americans' views on Iraq and other foreign policy issues have diverged to an unusual level, reaffirming the notion that on those issues the candidates will have to fight for support among small numbers of undecided voters. 
 For example, Republican support for the Bush doctrine that pre-emptive war can be justified against potential enemies has grown (to 88 percent from 79 percent last year) while Democratic support for it has fallen (to 44 percent from 58 percent).
 Nearly the same number of Americans said they favored a ''cautious'' foreign policy as a ''decisive'' one. 
 ''The debate about whether it is better to be loved or feared is shaping up as a major issue,'' said Lee Feinstein, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, which collaborated on the Pew study.
 The Pew Center, relying in part on data from past Gallup polls, said that security and foreign affairs issues dominated all campaigns from 1948 to 1972. But beginning in 1976, a year after the fall of Saigon, economic issues took over. That trend peaked in 1992, when Clinton campaign aides were instructed, ''It's the economy, stupid.'' Voters that year cited economic concerns 18 times as often as foreign and security matters. 
 The poll was conducted by phone from July 8 to July 18 among 2,009 Americans. Smaller samplings followed early this month. The margin of error was plus or minus 2.5 percentage points.
 The lessons of the survey offer each camp some encouragement, said Walter Mead of the Council on Foreign Relations.
 While Americans give Mr. Bush higher marks on the campaign against terror, and 9 in 10 say that protecting the United States from terrorist attack is a top priority, ''Kerry has a lead when you ask which is better on foreign policy,'' Mr. Mead said.
 Pew and other polls give Mr. Kerry an advantage on the economy. But on the question of who would do a better job of handling Iraq, the two candidates are tied, the Pew poll found. 
 If the troubles in Iraq have fueled a rising preoccupation with foreign affairs, recent economic improvement could explain the relative decline in concerns on that front. 
 Mr. Kerry has repeatedly criticized Mr. Bush, saying the president has lost millions of jobs, and has said that he would do better. But Mr. Bush has pointed to the creation of hundreds of thousands of jobs and has said more are coming. 
 The threat of terror continues to deeply mold public attitudes on the use of force and the extent of homeland protection measures. While 3 in 10 Americans said that the federal government had gone too far in restricting civil liberties as part of moves meant to fight terrorism, 5 in 10 expressed concern that it had not done enough to protect the country. 
 ''There are a lot of places in the poll where you can see that the shock of Sept. 11 is just a central concern for the American public,'' Mr. Mead said.
 One of those appeared to be the belief, held by 43 percent, that torture could sometimes be justified by circumstances, a number that is notable considering the prison abuse scandal in Iraq.
 Carroll Doherty of the Pew Center said that the public clearly wanted both stronger relations with allies, as Mr. Kerry has promised, and tougher measures against terror, a notion more associated in the public mind with Mr. Bush. 
 ''The public doesn't see any contradiction there,'' he said. ''They want both.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TRENDS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); VIETNAM WAR (76%); WAR ON TERROR (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); STATISTICS (70%); TERRORISM (62%); COUNTERTERRORISM (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Election Issues; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; United States Economy; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: Pew Research Center

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Brian Knowlton; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); VIETNAM (79%); VIET NAM (72%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



442 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Kerry are talking about good jobs versus bad jobs. A lot of workers just want to know what the average pay is.

BYLINE: By Alan B. Krueger. 
Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
THE job quality debate is heating up again. Democrats led by John Kerry argue that the modest job growth of the last year has been concentrated in bad jobs. Republicans, led by the Bush administration, counter that good jobs are being created. 
 To evaluate these arguments -- especially at a time when wages are growing slowly -- one needs a clear definition of a good job. Confusion over the definition has led to much debate over the facts. 
 Neoclassical economics hardly recognizes a distinction between good jobs and bad ones. All workers are supposed to be in jobs that reward them appropriately for their performance, which depends on their skills and effort. Supply and demand for workers determine their appropriate pay, benefits and working conditions, and there is little else to say. 
 In this view, all jobs are good jobs, because pay is based on merit. There are good and bad workers, which is why pay varies, but not good and bad jobs. 
 If an employer offered more than the prevailing wage and benefits for a job, he or she would be besieged by a queue of willing workers who would bid the wage down to the competitive level. Any profit-maximizing employer would not pay more than is necessary, so competitive pressures should eliminate unusually good jobs. 
 Another school of thought, dating back at least to Sumner Slicter and other institutional labor economists of the 1940's, rejects the notion that the labor market is as competitive as the neoclassicists presume. Instead, they argue that some companies pay higher wages than others for equivalent workers because unions restrict competition, or because managers find it desirable to share profits with workers, or because paying relatively high wages increases worker productivity and loyalty. 
 The labor market differs from other markets because the item being exchanged -- labor -- has an independent will. Pay plays a dual role: it motivates workers, as well as balances supply and demand. If workers do not believe that they are treated fairly or paid adequately, they are prone to shirk. 
 Furthermore, some employers have ''monopsony'' power over workers, meaning that they can pay less than the competitive amount without losing their work force. Economists used to think that monopsony power went out with company towns, but an expanding line of research, thoroughly summarized in a recent book by Alan Manning called ''Monopsony in Motion'' (Princeton University Press, 2003), shows that monopsony power can exist even when there are many employers in a market, if workers are immobile or imperfectly informed about alternative job offerings. 
 Modern labor economics is an uneasy blend of these schools of thought. 
 A workable definition of a good job, therefore, is a job that offers more than the prevailing wage and benefits to a worker of a given skill level. Consider two companies that employ janitors to do the same work in the same locale. With perfect competition, they must be paid the same. But many labor economists would be surprised if one job did not pay more than the other. 
 The research on good and bad jobs focuses primarily on union jobs, various industry sectors and large companies. There is little question that union jobs pay more than the going rate for workers of a given skill level. Union jobs have been dwindling for decades, however. Only 13 percent of the work force were union members in 2003, down from 20 percent in 1983. 
 Research on differences in pay and benefits across industries finds that workers who switch industries -- but stay in the same occupation -- receive higher pay if they move from low-paying industries, like restaurants and gasoline stations, to high-paying ones, like autos, construction or finance. A janitor at a financial services firm, for example, is typically paid more than a janitor at a fast-food restaurant across the street. 
 Furthermore, the high-paying industries today were also high-paying industries in the past. 
 So changes in the distribution of employment across industries yield some information about the growth in good jobs. Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, aptly summarized the recent trends as pointing to a ''slight shift toward industries with lower average earnings, but at the same time an upgrading within the industries with respect to occupations.'' 
 From June 2003 to June 2004, by my calculation, these two shifts have essentially canceled out. But one could argue that occupation is more reflective of worker skills than of job quality. Even if McDonald's hires more accountants, it is of little solace to a janitor at McDonald's who is hoping to get a better-paying job as a janitor at Citibank. 
 Industry shifts are a more relevant measure of how the job mix has changed for workers with a constant set of skills. Looked at by industry alone, the job shifts in the last three years would be expected to depress the average wage by a modest 0.5 percent. 
 Still, industry shifts only indirectly measure the quality of new jobs. Industry is used as a proxy because there is no registry of the pay in jobs that are being gained and lost. 
 The job quality debate also misses the important point that changes in pay and benefits for workers in continuing jobs swamp any impact of job shifts when it comes to workers' living standards. In any year, relatively few workers change industry or occupation. Indeed, 88 percent of workers had only one employer over the course of 2002, let alone made a change in industry. 
 The most relevant measure of worker well-being is undoubtedly the actual wage paid, which reflects developments in new and continuing jobs. Here, the trends are consistent across data sources: wage growth slowed over the last few years, especially after taking account of inflation. 
 The average real hourly wage of production and nonsupervisory workers, who make up 80 percent of the private work force, actually fell over the last 12 months; the increase in the wage rate was one percentage point less than the inflation rate. No Olympic judge would give high marks to such sluggish wage growth, although the healthy wage growth during the 2001 recession deserves honorable mention. 
 So why is there a job quality debate? 
 Apart from obvious partisan attempts to characterize the job growth numbers, to some extent the debate goes to the heart of the major economic policy issues of the 20th century. If the labor market corresponded to the competitive ideal, in which all jobs offered appropriate compensation based on workers' merit, there would be little need for civil rights legislation, unemployment benefits, safety and health regulation, the minimum wage, or Social Security. Expect the debate to continue.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Losing Ground''The average hourly wage has fallen over the last year, adjusted for inflation.Graph tracks annual change in real hourly wages, for private and nonfarm production and nonsupervisory workers, for periods ended July since 1989.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); JOB CREATION (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); POWER FAILURES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



443 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: World's Anti-AIDS Donations Slow, Cutting U.S. Contribution, Too

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
The rest of the world has contributed so little to the fight against AIDS that the United States cannot make its full contribution this year, President Bush's global AIDS coordinator said yesterday. 
 The coordinator, Randall L. Tobias, said he would wait two months beyond the contribution deadline, hoping other countries or private donors would come up with $240 million in donations to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. By law, the United States can give only a third of all the money going to the fund, so if other countries do not give enough, the government must limit its matching grant. 
 ''I'm very hopeful that the rest of the world will take action, so we can donate the full amount,'' Mr. Tobias said. 
 In announcing formation of the fund in 2002, Secretary General Kofi Annan said he hoped it would attract up to $10 billion a year. Instead, it has struggled to raise much over $1 billion annually, and has handed out $3 billion in 128 countries so far. 
 Fund administrators have pointed out that poor African and Asian countries need time to rebuild frayed health-care systems and would have trouble absorbing billions right away, but the response has been disappointing.
 ''I don't have an explanation for why other countries have not stepped up to the magnitude that is needed,'' Mr. Tobias said yesterday. He did not criticize any country, but he praised the British, who in June effectively doubled their pledge for the next three years. 
 At this summer's AIDS conference in Bangkok, it was estimated that the world would soon need $24 billion a year to fight AIDS, said Anil Soni, executive director of Friends of the Global Fight, the fund's money-raising arm in Washington. If rich nations do not increase their giving, Mr. Soni said, ''we're fast approaching a plateau that would be insufficient.'' 
 Under the budget it passed in January, Congress authorized the United States to donate $547 million to the Global Fund, more than double the Bush administration's request of $200 million. But a provision of the authorization limits the United States to donating no more than 33 percent of the world's total. To allow the full matching amount, other countries would have to donate $1.1 billion, which was due at the World Bank by July 31. 
 Instead, the world fell about $240 million short of the goal, so the United States is holding back $120 million. The money reverted to the control of Mr. Tobias, who could have given it to the fund he oversees, the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, which is completely under American control and fights AIDS in 15 African and Caribbean countries. But Mr. Tobias said he has ''a lot of latitude under the law,'' and would extend the period for matching donations to the Global Fund until Sept. 30. 
 Several other nations accelerated their giving once the United States made its contribution conditional, Mr. Soni said, but the struggle in Congress over the money made the final figure unknowable until January. Because other countries have had their own delays in passing budgets, July 31 ''is sort of an awkward date,'' he added. 
 Italy and the European Union may make large donations by the Sept. 30 deadline, said Jim Palmer, a spokesman for the fund. 
 The United States has been the fund's largest donor, giving $983 million since the fund started. The European Union has donated $450 million, France $300 million, Japan $246 million, Italy $215 million, Britain $173 million and the Netherlands $100 million. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has given $150 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (95%); MALARIA (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MATCHING GIFTS (89%); TUBERCULOSIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Foreign Aid; Law and Legislation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Philanthropy

ORGANIZATION: Global Fund to Fight Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Donald G Jr Mcneil; George W (Pres) Bush; Randall L Tobias

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (77%) UNITED STATES (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (77%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



444 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: A Noisy Late-Night Message for the Mayor on Pay Raises

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The contract dispute between Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the police and firefighters grew nastier yesterday as union members held a noisy 1 a.m. protest outside his Upper East Side town house and the police union threatened to set up picket lines at the Republican National Convention.
 Seeking to turn up the pressure on the mayor, Patrick Lynch, the president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, said for the first time yesterday that his union might picket the convention and ask Republican delegates -- along with employees at Madison Square Garden -- to honor the picket line. 
 ''We're keeping all our options open, and that is certainly an option,'' he said.
 Such a move would put Republican delegates in an uncomfortable position because crossing the line might be seen as showing disrespect for the nation's police officers -- a group that President Bush's campaign is wooing assiduously. And New York's police officers, like its firefighters, are held in special regard because of their role in confronting the Sept. 11 attack. 
 The threat comes despite pledges by the New York City Central Labor Council that the city's unions would not disrupt the convention. But Mr. Lynch said his union was not bound by that pledge because the P.B.A. does not belong to the labor council.
 Hoping to persuade Mr. Bloomberg to make a more generous contract offer, police officers and firefighters have for over a week dogged him wherever he goes, picketing and heckling him. In addition, the leaders of the police and fire unions have warned that they will not rule out a strike, perhaps even during the Republican convention, even though state law prohibits walkouts by government employees.
 ''The mayor has created these tensions with his unreasonable and unacceptable contract offer,'' said Stephen Cassidy, the president of the Uniformed Firefighters Association.
 At a City Hall news conference yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg insisted that he would not let the unions' pressure tactics intimidate him. He also belittled the raucous rally and candlelight vigil that hundreds of police officers and firefighters staged outside his house on 79th Street near Fifth Avenue.
 ''We are not going to be intimidated,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''I'm not going to go do a labor deal because people are yelling and screaming.''
 Later he added: ''All the yelling and screaming isn't going to accomplish anything, other than keeping them up late at night. I slept very well.''
 In recent days, several City Hall officials have said they do not take seriously the threat of a strike or some vague calls for a sudden bout of blue flu -- in which officers call in sick -- during the convention, which runs from Aug. 30 to Sept. 2. These officials said that the city's police officers, who are eager for higher pay, would be reluctant to shun the hefty amount of overtime during the convention, when thousands of police officers will be assigned to 12-hour shifts.
 ''We have the greatest police department and fire department,'' Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday. ''The people who work there are not going to strike. They're very proud of the job that they do.''
 Mr. Bloomberg has said that unless the police and firefighters agree to greater productivity, they should receive no more than the 5 percent raise over three years accepted by the city's largest municipal union, District Council 37.
 Mr. Bloomberg has angered Mr. Cassidy and Mr. Lynch, not only by making a wage offer that they view as insultingly low but also by insisting that those two leaders are using their protests and harsh words to grandstand to win re-election. Mr. Bloomberg had also said that the two leaders were too scared to show the city's offer to union members.
 In an interview yesterday, Mr. Cassidy began speaking angrily about how the mayor was treating him, his union and the P.B.A. ''They're engaging in the politics of personal destruction against me and Pat Lynch,'' he said. ''They're saying we haven't brought the proposal back to our membership. That's a lie. They're saying we're afraid to negotiate a deal. That's a lie.'' 
 The police and firefighters say they are frustrated because they have been without a contract for two years. Adding to their anger is a sense that the mayor has not accorded them the respect, in the form of a sizable raise, that they believe they deserve. They see themselves as the heroes of the Sept. 11 attacks, yet the city is offering no more than the 5 percent over three years offered to other unions.
 So many union members are reported to be so angry that some labor experts say they might get carried away and take rash actions that would anger the public when the unions are eager to maintain public support. With recent terror alerts and threats of large protest rallies planned, these experts said, the public might have little patience for disruptions by the police and firefighters.
 ''They're capable of going off the deep end,'' said Fred Siegel, an expert on urban affairs at Cooper Union. ''They're really working themselves into a frenzy.''
 Mr. Cassidy said, ''We are concerned about public support, and we're concerned that the disinformation campaign that City Hall has put out has had a negative impact.''
 The police union and the firefighters' union have both sought arbitration, hoping that an arbitrator would award them more than the 5 percent accepted by District Council 37 and several other nonuniformed unions. But city officials have fought against setting up an arbitration panel, saying the contract dispute should be settled at the bargaining table.
 Many police officers and firefighters say that they deserve higher raises than District Council 37, which they call a union of paper pushers.
 ''Our members are putting their lives on the line every day,'' Mr. Lynch said.
 Mr. Cassidy said the mayor could defuse labor tensions by agreeing to expedited arbitration.
 Edward Skyler, a spokesman for the mayor, said the city could not afford to give the police and firefighters larger raises than other unions have received.
 ''Just because the city's economy is improving doesn't mean the city can afford huge pay increases,'' he said. ''The only way to fund them would be by raising taxes because the city is facing a $3.8 billion budget deficit next year.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A month ago near Madison Square Garden, a police officer protested the lack of a contract with the city. Now officials of the police union are threatening to set up a picket line there during the Republican convention. (Photo by Frances M. Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); CONTRACTS LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (89%); CITIES (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); RIOTS (73%) Presidential Election of 2004; Madison Square Garden; Police; Fires and Firefighters; Demonstrations and Riots; Conventions, National (US); Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: Patrolmen's Benevolent Assn; Uniformed Firefighters Assn

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Steven Greenhouse; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



445 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Election Victories Put Premier-Designate in Place to Lead Pakistan

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD

DATELINE: HASAN ABDAL, Pakistan, Aug. 18 

 BODY:
Shaukat Aziz, Pakistan's prime minister-designate, cruised to an easy victory in two by-elections on Wednesday, defeating his opponents by huge margins, according to unofficial results announced by state and private media outlets. The official results will be announced this week.
 Victory in the two by-elections virtually ensures that Mr. Aziz, who is finance minister, will lead the government. 
 He was picked by Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, after Zafarullah Khan Jamali abruptly resigned as the prime minister in June. But before ascending to the prime minister's post, Mr. Aziz had to win a seat in the lower house of Parliament. 
 The new cabinet is expected to be sworn in this month, said Sheik Rashid Ahmed, Pakistani information minister
 The polling on Wednesday was peaceful, though there had been fears of violence in the two areas where it took place: the Attock district, in Punjab Province and the Tharparker district, in southern Sindh Province. But turnout was low and no long lines were seen at the polls. 
 Mr. Aziz, a former Citibank executive credited with stabilizing Pakistan's fragile economy, is a trusted colleague of General Musharraf and has been described as the embodiment of the image of a modern and moderate Pakistan that the president hopes to convey to the West. 
 But opposition parties have castigated Mr. Aziz, 55, who lived in the West for 30 of the last 35 years, calling him an American stooge who has no real popular following in Pakistan. They also accused the government of gerrymandering the election districts and harassing the opposition.
 On Monday, three opposition workers were shot dead by unidentified men as they distributed pamphlets in Fateh Jang in Attock. The opposition blamed supporters of Mr. Aziz for the killings. 
 Authorities adopted strict security measures in both districts on Wednesday. In Attock, which was racked by election violence in past weeks, police squads were brought in from surrounding districts in Punjab Province.
 On July 29, while campaigning, Mr. Aziz narrowly escaped an assassination attempt when a suicide bomber blew himself up next to his car after a political rally in Jaffer village in Attock. Mr. Aziz escaped unhurt but the attack killed his driver and eight others. Government officials have blamed Al Qaeda linked militants, who are seething over General Musharraf's decision to align the country with the United States in the campaign against terrorism.
 Mr. Aziz's supporters were confident of his victory as soon as the polling began Wednesday morning, and saw the electoral process as a mere formality.
 ''It was a win-win situation for Shaukat Aziz,'' Zargham Saleem, 24, said at a polling station in Hasan Abdal, a town in in Attock. ''When it was already announced that Mr. Aziz will be the next prime minister, people naturally tilted more towards him.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BYELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); ASSASSINATION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); SHOOTINGS (68%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (66%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (65%); COUNTERTERRORISM (60%); AL-QAEDA (60%) Politics and Government; Elections; Elections; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%) Shaukat Aziz; Pervez (Gen) Musharraf; Zafarullah Khan Jamali

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



446 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 62 words

HEADLINE: It's Not About Money

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan is the most brilliant political idea since Gerald Ford's WIN (Whip Inflation Now) buttons. 
 How about ''Peaceful Republican Delegate'' buttons and discounts for Republicans who are willing to admit that the war in Iraq was a mistake and who vote to remove the president who started it?

David Hershey-Webb
New York, Aug. 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (85%); IRAQ WAR (83%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Demonstrations and Riots

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%) David Hershey-Webb; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2004



447 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; DESIGN REVIEW; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: The Essence of Wit And as Cool as Jazz

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

DATELINE: BOSTON, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
Now it is prized by collectors and loved by connoisseurs, but not so long ago Art Deco was so tiresomely ubiquitous that nobody wanted it. Applied to everything from ashtrays to skyscrapers, it appeared everywhere from Australia and India to London, New York City and small Midwestern towns. It defined the look of modernity for almost 30 years and then, just before World War II, plummeted out of fashion into the dustbin of design history. There it languished until the late 1960's, when it was revived by a new generation bored by the stringencies of Modernism and delighted by Art Deco's witty elegance, polymorphous complexity and kitschy excesses.
 As told by a beautiful exhibition that opens on Sunday at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the story of Art Deco's rise and fall is as fascinating visually as it is intellectually. ''Art Deco: 1910-1939,'' organized by the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, presents more than 250 objects, including furniture, sculpture, paintings, glassware, jewelry, ceramics, fashion, leather-bound books and much more. 
 If you like, you can simply revel in sheer sumptuousness. Unlike much avant-garde modern art, this is not the kind of material designed to affront the average viewer's sensibility. As announced at the start of the exhibition by Tamara de Lempicka's sexy painting of a beautiful young woman in a form-fitting green dress -- a kind of lightly Cubisticized pin-up -- Art Deco wants only to seduce you.
 But what is Art Deco? Where did it come from? How did it evolve? Why did it die? Why was it resurrected? What does it mean? These are questions worth pursuing, and to that end, the exhibition's massive catalog with its 40 essays by many different specialists rewards perusal. If you don't have time for them all, you will still profit from reading the well-written chapters by the book's editors, Charlotte Benton and Tim Benton, formerly married.
 The challenge to getting a grip on Art Deco is that it has been so many different things to so many different people. It emerged shortly before World War I as a new style for French luxury goods that initially entailed updating traditional forms and motifs. A 1925 dressing table by the French designer Jacques-Emile Ruhlmann, for example, sleekly modernizes 100-year-old French Neo-Classicism. And Paul Manship's 1925 gold-leafed bronze sculpture of the nude Europa carried away by a bull absorbs ancient Greek form and subject matter into an aerodynamic emblem of 20th-century speed and dynamism.
 But Art Deco quickly proved to be amazingly adaptable and omnivorously appropriative. It could swallow up just about any style from any period and transform it into something cool, jazzy and contemporary, and it could turn just about any commodity -- even vacuum cleaners and refrigerators -- into an object of desire. Art Deco drew on the arts of the ancient Egyptians, Aztecs and Mayans, the art and architecture of China and Japan, German folk art and African sculpture. It also took ideas from contemporary avant-garde styles like Fauvism, Cubism and Futurism.
 And it made use of all kinds of old and new materials, from stone to precious metals to Bakelite.
 The question is, how many different things can be called Art Deco before the term becomes meaningless? How can things as visually divergent as Rene Lalique's dreamy, exquisitely refined glassware; a severely geometric, chrome-plated table lamp with a saw-tooth profile by Donald Deskey; a flapper's pink straw cloche with an applique of velvet flowers; and a streamlined steel meat slicer designed by Egmont Arens and Theodore C. Brookhart all be said to belong to the same stylistic universe?
 Historians do disagree about how broadly to apply the term, which did not come into use until the 1960's. Some think that the Streamline Moderne style of the 1930's should not be considered Art Deco. Ms. Benton and Mr. Benton opt for inclusiveness. Following an idea of the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, they suggest that we think of Art Deco not as a singular style defined by a particular set of attributes, but as an extended family of styles related in many different ways but not all sharing the same defining characteristics.
 Art Deco does have identifiable formal features -- qualities of precision, geometrical economy and percussive rhythm -- but in a way it is more than a style; it is more the name for modern stylishness itself. As many of the catalog essays point out, Art Deco belongs to the history of capitalism as well as the history of design.
 Art Deco didn't create new products as such, but it made familiar things look new and provoked a hunger for more new-looking things that it was happy to keep feeding. You might already have a Zippo, but how could you not want that chrome and white plastic cigarette lighter, which, with its curvy, racing car profile, looks at once classically serene and ready to leap off the table.
 This explains Art Deco's amazing capacity for stylistic ingestion. Freed from the restraints of tradition and driven by insatiable demands for novelty, Art Deco stopped at no geographical, cultural, historical or spiritual boundary in its search for anything it could use to make things look new. In its relentlessly expansive aesthetic and commercial opportunism, it mirrored globalizing capitalism.
 A mood of euphoria runs through Art Deco. A shimmering, Futurist-style ode to the Brooklyn Bridge painted by Joseph Stella in 1941 looks like a consummate expression of its animating spirit. The possibilities of modernity had not yet crashed into the horrors of World War II; you could still believe that 20th-century know-how could prevail over worldly troubles and that, materially speaking, there would be enough for all. Art Deco was not a utopian movement; it was not a movement at all. But it could be inspiringly, sublimely optimistic: see the films of Fred Astaire or it greatest creation, the Chrysler Building.
 At a certain point the movement that made things look new started to look old. After World War II, Modernism asserted its influence. It got rid of all the frivolous decorative clutter and encouraged more rationalistic relations between forms and functions.
 It gave us monolithic International Style office towers and lithe Scandanavian furniture. And then, with the advent of Pop Art in the 60's, the wheel turned again and Art Deco's promiscuous, unrepentantly commercial ways with style, imagery, history and ornamentation came to be appreciated not only formally, but as semiotically rich condensations of 20th-century sensibility and experience as well.
 Some Art Deco objects look musty today, but many look spanking new: Norman Bel Geddes's snazzy Patriot radio with its blue plastic container and red bars over the speaker like stripes of the American flag resembles something you could buy at Target. Design historians will say that Art Deco ended with the 1930's, its last glorious gasp being the gleaming white streamlined architectural fantasies temporarily built for the 1939 New York World's Fair. But it did not die; it just went into hibernation. It woke up in the 60's, and its hedonism, opportunism and overweening will to pure stylishness is as alive today in the work of countless contemporary designers as it ever was.

''Art Deco: 1910-1939'' opens Sunday at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, 465 Huntington Avenue, (617) 267-9300, and runs through Jan. 9.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A cloche hat by Kilpin, left, and Norman Bel Geddes's Patriot radio are among the objects in ''Art Deco: 1910-1939'' in Boston. (Photographs from the Victoria and Albert Museum)(pg. E25)
Joseph Stella's shimmering, Futurist-style ''Old Brooklyn Bridge'' captures the animating spirit of Art Deco. (Photo by Museum of Fine Arts, Boston)
Ronson's chrome and white plastic cigarette lighter, left, and a chrome-plated table lamp by Donald Deskey. (Photo by John P. Axelrod)
(Photo by Victoria and Albert Museum)
 A French silvered bronze clock with enamel by Jean Goulden, top, and Edgar Brandt's gilded ''Storks of Alsace'' panel for an elevator cage. (Photos by top and above, Artists Rights Society)(pg. E28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); PAINTING (78%); WORLD WAR II (76%); CLASSICS (76%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); WORLD WAR I (71%) Design; Reviews; Art Deco

ORGANIZATION: Museum of Fine Arts (Boston, Mass); Victoria and Albert Museum (London)

PERSON: Ken Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ALSACE, FRANCE (52%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (90%); FRANCE (76%); INDIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



448 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Leading Gauge Of Economy Fell in July

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
In another sign that the nation's economic recovery may be losing steam, a closely watched gauge of future business activity fell in July for a second consecutive month.
 The Conference Board, the business research group in New York, said yesterday that its composite index of leading economic indicators dropped 0.3 percent in July, to 116.0, after a revised decline of 0.1 percent in June -- the first time in more than a year that the index lost ground. The July decline was larger than the 0.1 percent dip forecast by analysts. 
 The index is closely followed because it is meant to forecast the economy's health over the coming three to six months. Economists said the new reading, taken with a batch of other recent data, pointed to slower growth.
 Ken Goldstein, an economist with the Conference Board, said the decline in the index reflected the effect that several factors -- from energy prices to worries about terrorism -- were having on the economy.
 ''The latest decline in the leading index reflects a loss of forward momentum,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''There are growing concerns about the high cost of gasoline and milk, as well as worries about where economic growth will come from now that tax refunds have been spent and short-term interest rates are rising.''
 The Conference Board said that 6 of the 10 indicators that make up the index declined in July. They included vendor performance, the interest rate spread, stock prices, average weekly initial claims for unemployment insurance, real money supply and manufacturers' new orders for nonmilitary capital goods.
 Components that rose were building permits, the index of consumer expectations, average weekly manufacturing hours and manufacturers' new orders for consumer goods and materials.
 Some factors driving down the index are temporary, leaving open the question of whether it points to anything more than a moderation of growth, said Joel L. Naroff, an economic adviser in Holland, Pa.
 ''There is a little bit of weakness out there,'' Mr. Naroff said, ''and one month doesn't tell us we've made a turn.'' 
 Also yesterday, the Labor Department reported that the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment insurance dipped by 3,000 last week, to 331,000. It was the third consecutive week of declines in claims. The four-week moving average of claims, which smoothes out fluctuations in the often volatile figures, fell to 337,000, from 339,500 in the previous week.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Leading Indicators''An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
1996 = 100.July: -0.3%June
 -0.1May: +0.4(Source by The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (86%); NEW ORDERS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); GASOLINE (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); TERRORISM (53%); BUILDING PERMITS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



449 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1744 words

HEADLINE: Natural Gas Seems Headed the Way of Oil: More Demand, Less Supply, Higher Cost

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

 BODY:
Is natural gas becoming the new oil?
 At a time when the nation is chafing at its persistent dependence on foreign oil, it is becoming clear that the United States may be headed for the same situation with natural gas. 
 Demand is growing far faster than supply from domestic sources or from friendly neighbors like Canada. Soon, probably within the next decade, the United States will become a significant importer of gas from regions like North Africa, the Middle East, the former Soviet Union and the Caribbean, transported in liquefied form by giant tanker ships.
 Faced with that prospect, policy makers and industry executives are pondering whether that means natural gas will become another vulnerable front in American diplomacy and energy security, posing the same quandaries and threats that crude oil does now. 
 The United States will probably be able to meet most of its gas needs with domestic production for another 20 years. But some analysts worry that, as with oil, gas supplies around the world will not expand fast enough to meet rising global demand, driving prices higher even as the United States turns increasingly to imports. 
 Like oil deposits, big gas reserves are often found in politically troublesome places. Because few of the world's gas-rich countries are stable, open democracies, there is a danger that gas revenue will flow into the coffers of corrupt, brutal governments, or that gas supplies will be disrupted by domestic instability the way oil exports have been in Venezuela, Nigeria and elsewhere. 
 In the worst-case outlooks, about which industry experts are deeply divided, the United States could find itself beholden to a small number of countries to keep its lights on, a prospect with profound implications for American foreign policy. 
 ''Do we ever want to be in a situation in 20 years when we say, 'We'd better do this for the Russians or we'll be in a blackout?''' said Amy Myers Jaffe, senior energy analyst at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University in Houston. 
 The United States now imports about 57 percent of its crude oil, but only 16 percent of its natural gas, and nearly all of that comes by pipeline from Canada. By 2025, according to recent Energy Department estimates, the country will be consuming 37 percent more gas -- 31.2 trillion cubic feet a year, compared with 22.8 trillion in 2002. 
 Most of the growth in demand is coming from power plants that run on natural gas, which burns more cleanly than other fossil fuels. Supplies are already tight, pushing prices to their highest levels in 20 years, and the government said that it did not expect domestic supply to keep up with demand. 
 Some gas-rich areas in the United States are closed to oil and gas drilling for environmental or other reasons; much of the remainder has already been developed. 
 As for Canada, much of its gas may soon be consumed at home rather than exported, said Sara Banaszak of PFC Energy, a Washington consulting firm, because the production of oil from tar sand deposits being developed in Alberta requires a great deal of gas.
 ''So what remains for consideration is L.N.G.'' or liquefied natural gas, imported by tanker from distant countries, said David Nissen, director of the International Energy Management and Policy program at Columbia University.
 Gas prices are now so high, and likely to stay high, that it makes financial sense to invest the large amounts of capital required to build liquefied gas operations around the world, Mr. Nissen said. ''The constraints on those projects are not economic, but political, social and structural,'' he said.
 Right now, liquefied gas imports account for 2 percent of annual gas consumption in the United States. Gas transported in this form must be supercooled to liquid form and pumped into specially designed tankers, then warmed back up to its gaseous state at a receiving terminal before being piped to the user.
 Oil and gas are often found in the same places, and the biggest oil producers are also among the biggest gas producers. Indonesia is the leader so far in liquefying gas for export, mainly to customers in East Asia. But about 75 percent of known global gas reserves are in the nations of the former Soviet Union -- mostly Russia -- or in the Middle East, according to Energy Department figures. Projects to expand L.N.G. terminals have sprouted in many places, including Qatar, Nigeria and Trinidad.
 Gradually, the need for gas has begun to shape United States foreign policy, just as the need for oil has for generations, industry analysts said. For example, last December the Energy Department organized a Washington conference of energy ministers from the major liquefied gas exporting countries. The administration has also been pressing Russia to build a liquefied gas plant at Murmansk, with an American company as a partner. And some analysts say that the administration's recent decision to lift sanctions against Libya grew in part from a desire on both sides to develop liquefied gas operations in Libya, whose gas reserves are richer than the oil reserves.
 ''Libya is a big L.N.G. play, and that's why they were desperate to get the sanctions off,'' Ms. Jaffe of Rice University said. For the Libyans' part, she said, ''they felt the L.N.G. market is the U.S. market, and they needed an American company.'' On the American side, she said, ''the sanctions moved because L.N.G. is big business.''
 ''Think of all those years when the sanctions didn't move, when we were worried about two or three oil fields.''
 Even so, bringing liquefied gas to market can be even more complicated than producing and exporting oil. The investment required to build plants from scratch can be staggering, and the time line is long. Ms. Banaszak of PFC Energy estimated that building a liquefaction plant generally costs around $2 billion; the ships needed to carry the gas, another $2 billion; and a regasification terminal on the receiving end, $300 million to $500 million more. According to one Western oil executive, building the whole chain can take 40 to 42 months. 
 Those figures do not include the costs of finding and pumping the gas out of the ground. But in many cases, gas is already available, a byproduct of oil development that now largely goes to waste. 
 The expense and complexity of getting liquefied gas projects built have prompted industry experts to warn that as demand for gas grows, supply may not be there to meet it. ''Despite huge global gas prices, no major new 'greenfield' L.N.G. project is starting this year,'' Deutsche Bank noted in a July report. ''The globe is underinvested in the infrastructure required to meet strong demand for oil and gas.''
 So it appears unlikely that liquefied gas imports will do much to lower prices in the United States soon. ''People who are moving to make supply available are not moving fast enough,'' said James T. Jensen, an independent energy consultant in Weston, Mass. ''It will be a tight market for some time, and that will have price implications.''
 Producers generally sell gas under long-term contracts, often lasting several years and negotiated with buyers well in advance. How, then, can a consuming country cope when its supply is disrupted, as happened in 2001 when insurgents in the Indonesian province of Aceh forced a four-month shutdown of Exxon Mobil's Arun liquefied gas plant there? 
 There is no spot market in liquefied gas now, though one is expected to emerge, allowing buyers to find some new supplies on short notice. But as it does, Ms. Jaffe said, gas prices will become global. Then, a disruption in anyone's supply would push up prices for everyone, as customers scrambled to make up the shortfall, as now happens in the oil market, Ms. Jaffe predicted.
 Oil can be loaded and unloaded at hundreds of ports around the world, but there are, and will be, far fewer liquefied gas operations, some industry analysts said, making any disruption more far reaching. 
 The answer to these threats is to have as many sources of gas as possible, according to oil and gas executives and government officials who back liquefied gas development. ''What are the chances of 20 governments having a coup at the same time?'' one Washington official asked. ''It's better to have contracts with 20 countries of dubious governments than with 3.'' 
 While diversity of supply would be helpful, some analysts mention other factors that would still complicate efforts to overcome disruptions. There are different types of liquefied gas with varying amounts of propane and ethane, and some grades can be handled only at certain regasification terminals in the United States, Mr. Nissen said. And with most gas committed to long-term supply contracts, producers may not have much inventory available to trade in the event of a disruption, he noted. 
 The drive to procure more gas would necessarily deepen the United States' ties to countries with poor records on human rights and political freedom. If the track records of oil-rich countries are any indication, internal political turmoil may periodically threaten the stability of gas supplies from those countries. 
 ''If you look at countries that are potentially big L.N.G. producers, like Nigeria and Angola, they already get money from oil, and they have a poor record of governance, and other countries that are big new producers, like Turkmenistan, are even worse,'' said Arvind Ganesan, director of business and human rights at Human Rights Watch. ''If you make huge investments and have long-term contracts with these countries, isn't that going to suppress our government's willingness to speak out about the underlying causes of instability in these countries, like corruption, human rights abuses and conflict?'' 
 Mr. Ganesan suggested that in the 3 to 10 years that the United States still has before its economy grows profoundly dependent on liquefied gas imports, the government should insist on ''an extremely high degree of transparency'' about finances from the producing countries and the international oil and gas companies involved. 
 There is also time to develop alternative energy and conservation technology, and to review existing bans on drilling in protected parts of the United States, Ms. Jaffe said.
 ''We have 20 years to prepare,'' she said. ''We can't wait until we are dependent on the Middle East and Russian gas, and that is a political problem. The time to think about it is now.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A $5 billion natural gas project, right, a venture between Libya and an Italian-led consortium, goes up about 100 miles west of Tripoli. Below, a ship designed to carry liquid natural gas. (Photo by Matt Houston/Associated Press)
(Photo by John Moore/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 A Russian worker checks a valve on a pipeline at an OAO Gazprom field in Urengoi, Siberia. It appears increasingly likely that Russian natural gas will figure prominently in America's future. (Photo by Dmitry Beliakov/Bloomberg News)(pg. C5)Chart: ''Consuming Natural Gas''Industry is the largest consumer of natural gas. Consumers and utilities use about the same amount, while commerical and transportation uses trail far behind.Figures are for 2003INDUSTRIAL: 37.1%TRANSPORTATION: 2.9%COMMERCIAL: 14.3%ELECTRIC UTILITIES: 22.5%RESIDENTIAL: 23.3%Manufactured products like fertilizer: 26.8%Plant fuel: 5.1%Electricity and heat production: 5.2%(Source by Energy Information Administration)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); POWER FAILURES (74%); POWER PLANTS (73%); MARINE TANKERS (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); OIL EXTRACTION (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



450 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Is Reaching Out, And World Is Reaching Back

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Aug. 15 

 BODY:
Even as the Bush administration has worked to isolate North Korea in a campaign to make it drop its nuclear program, Asian and European governments have been actively engaging it on diplomatic, cultural and economic levels. Now, with the pace of engagement quickening, it is the administration that risks becoming isolated, experts say, a possible factor in a recent moderation in its stance.
 A country famous for its hermetic borders, North Korea now has embassies in 41 countries and diplomatic ties with 155. It recently held the first-ever military talks with its former archenemy, South Korea, and is moving toward normalizing diplomatic relations with its former colonizer, Japan.
 North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Il, a hard-core Communist who has begun tilting his country toward a market economy, extolled the virtues of profit during a visit in June to a North Korean factory. South Korean businesses will start operating this year in an industrial park in the North that by 2006 is expected to employ 30,000 North Korean workers. 
 Against this backdrop of intensifying engagement, Washington's attitude has begun easing in recent weeks. In June, President Bush, who famously lumped North Korea into his ''axis of evil,'' made the first significant offer to the North Koreans since coming into office. The Bush administration had come under increasing pressure from Democrats and other participants in talks on North Korea's nuclear program -- South Korea, China, Russia and Japan -- to come up with an offer.
 ''They were drifting away from the U.S.'s line, and the U.S. was becoming isolated,'' said Chung In Moon, a foreign affairs professor at Yonsei University here and an adviser to President Roh Moo Hyun. ''They were fed up with America's failure to come up with a concrete plan, and the Americans realized that.''
 In contrast, Asian and European diplomats and businessmen who have long dealt with North Korean officials describe an eagerness to adopt new ideas and policies, leading some to make comparisons to two formerly reclusive Communist Asian nations, China and Vietnam.
 Proponents of a hard line against North Korea say it is not really interested in change, but in simply avoiding economic collapse and driving a wedge between the United States and its allies. Whatever the North's motives, those favoring engagement argue, the North Korea of today is less isolated and more economically stable than it was just two years ago.
 North Korea began opening up immediately after its first summit meeting with South Korea in 2000. Since then, it has established diplomatic ties with 19 new countries, including Britain, Australia and nations of the European Union.
 ''We support the engagement of North Korea,'' said Tadeusz Chomicki, the Polish ambassador to South Korea. ''We think the isolation of North Korea would not produce goals that are desirable. It is through engagement that we can present to them democracy and democratic institutions.''
 Germany, which has led European efforts to engage North Korea, opened the first Western cultural center in Pyongyang, North Korea's capital, in June. The Goethe Information Center -- a step below a full-fledged institute -- now operates on the second floor of a cultural center next to the Ministry of Culture. It offers uncensored access to German reading material -- half of it consisting of popular media, the other of scientific material -- and is open to all. North Korea is said to have German speakers because of its ties with the former East Germany.
 ''We can call this a breakthrough,'' said Uwe Schmelter, who is the director of Seoul's Goethe Institute and negotiated the Pyongyang center's opening with North Korean officials. ''For a country that has been labeled as isolated, reclusive and unchanging, a change is a change.'' 
 During negotiations, Mr. Schmelter said that North Korea never objected to the center's contents or open access. After negotiations over the center were completed, North Korea asked Germany to build a training center for librarians and researchers. In September, Germany is expected to begin offering 10-day classes on modern research techniques, including use of the Internet.
 ''They asked us,'' Mr. Schmelter said. ''They came up with the next step.''
 Perhaps even more notable are the effects of the economic reforms that North Korea announced two years ago, including floating exchange rates and prices, and granting more autonomy to enterprises and farms. According to visitors to North Korea, once bare store shelves are now stocked with all sorts of consumer goods, many from China. About 300 markets selling food, clothing and other goods have been established. The number of cars in Pyongyang is said to be increasing, including that of the Whistle, a car that the South Korean Pyeonghwa Motors began assembling with parts from Fiat in Pyongyang in 2002.
 Hyundai Asan, the South Korean company that already operates a tourist resort in southeastern North Korea, will open the first phase of a $180 million industrial park in Kaesong in southwestern North Korea. Parts of a new highway and railroad to Kaesong, cutting through the once impenetrable demilitarized zone separating the South and the North, have already been built.
 Shim Jae Won, a senior executive vice president at Hyundai who has negotiated with North Korean officials since 1989, said the changes in North Korea since 2002 amounted to ''10 times'' what had occurred before.
 In May, Mr. Shim and seven other Hyundai officials took eight high-ranking North Korean officials on a 10-day tour of Chinese special economic zones in Shanghai and Shenzen. Hyundai had been urging them to visit the sites for three years. But they had apparently been reluctant to do so until North Korea's leader himself, Kim Jong Il, visited those sites during a three-day tour of China in April.
 The North Koreans were impressed, Mr. Shim said, by the Chinese economic zones and were clearly using China as a benchmark.
 ''They said, 'It took China more than 20 years. We need more time. We just started,''' Mr. Shim said. ''I had never heard them make that kind of comment before.''
 At the same time, the governments of America's two closest Asian allies, South Korea and Japan, have been aggressively engaging in bilateral talks with North Korea. After paying his second visit to North Korea in May, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan said his country might normalize relations with the North within a year.
 As for South Korea, it recently began holding high-level talks with North Korea on the most difficult of areas: the military. In May, generals from the North and South met for the first time since the Korean War, and agreed on several issues related to their common border.
 ''The scope and frequency of our talks have been increasing,'' said Kim Yeon Chul, policy adviser to the minister at the Ministry of Unification. He added that in 2003 the two sides held 38 meetings totaling 106 days.
 Moon Ha Yong, director general of policy planning at South Korea's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, minimized the differences in approach to North Korea. He said that while South Korea's policy toward North Korea was one of peace and prosperity, it was strongly emphasizing that the nuclear issue must be resolved before fuller relations and investments.
 As an indication of the different approach taken by the United States, South Korean officials have chafed at a human rights bill passed last month by the House of Representatives. Called the North Korean Human Rights Act, it seeks to support North Korean refugees in China and promote human rights in China.
 ''We hope the bill won't have any bad effect on the Korean peninsula,'' Mr. Kim said.
 In an appearance before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee last month, James A. Kelly, assistant secretary of state and chief negotiator with North Korea, played down any divisions with South Korea and Japan. Mr. Kelly also said that even if North Korea agreed to dismantle its nuclear program, the United States would not establish normal relations unless the North improved its human rights record.
 A Western diplomat here cautioned against attaching too much importance to European and Asian nations' engagement of North Korea, saying that they tended to make few difficult demands of the North Koreans. In turn, he said, North Korea often gained economic benefits by merely establishing diplomatic ties with those nations.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Food and goods were on sale recently at a market in Pyongyang, North Korea. Economic reforms have improved the nation's economy.
North Korean citizens visiting the Goethe Information Center in Pyongyang got a taste of uncensored reading material from Germany. (Photographs by Adrian Bradshaw/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. A12)Chart/Map: ''Not a Recluse Anymore''Famous for its isolation, North Korea now has embassies in 41 countries
22 countries have embassies or missions in North Korea.Map of the world highlighting countries that have embassies or missions in North Korea or in which North Korea has an embassy or mission.(Sources by South Korean Ministry of Foreign Affairs
 South Korean Ministry of Unification)(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KIM JONG IL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); POLAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



451 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; COMMODITIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: Crude Oil Price Pushes Higher On Iraq Worry

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Crude oil futures jumped to a record $48.70 a barrel yesterday on concern that Iraqi exports may drop further because of clashes in southern Iraq between American troops and fighters loyal to the rebel cleric Moktada al-Sadr.
 Disruptions to Iraqi pipeline shipments have cut exports to about 1 million barrels a day from 1.8 million in April. Crude oil futures in New York have set an intraday record all but one day since July 30 amid concern that rising demand has used up all excess production, leaving no supply cushion. 
 ''When you're at capacity, a million barrels starts to become very important,'' said Boone Pickens, the Texas oil investor who predicted in May that oil prices would go to $50.
 ''If I had to take a position up or down, I'd say up,'' he said in a phone interview from Dallas.
 In New York, crude oil for September delivery rose $1.43, or 3 percent, to $48.70 a barrel. Prices reached $48.80 a barrel, the highest intraday price since oil began trading in New York in 1983. Prices were up 59 percent from a year earlier. The September contract expires tomorrow. The more active October futures contract rose $1.29, or 2.8 percent, to $47.64 a barrel.
 ''The oil price is firmly in the danger zone,'' Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley in New York, wrote in a note to clients. Should prices reach $50 and stay there for several months, this would be ''in the ballpark with full-blown oil shocks of the past'' that have caused recessions, he said.
 In London, the October Brent crude oil futures contract rose $1.30, or 3 percent, to $44.33 a barrel on the International Petroleum Exchange, the highest closing price since futures began trading in 1988. Prices reached $44.35 a barrel during the session, an intraday record.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since March 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); FUTURES (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (92%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (91%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



452 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Anarchists Emerge as the Convention's Wild Card

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
Their reputation precedes them.
 Self-described anarchists were blamed for inciting the violence in Seattle at a 1999 meeting of the World Trade Organization in which 500 people were arrested and several businesses damaged. They have been accused by the police of throwing rocks or threatening officers with liquid substances at demonstrations against the Republican convention in Philadelphia in 2000 and at an economic summit meeting in Miami last year.
 Now, as the Republican National Convention is about to begin in New York City, the police are bracing for the actions of this loosely aligned and often shadowy group of protesters, and consider them the great unknown factor in whether the demonstrations remain under control or veer toward violence and disorder. 
 The city is trying everything from giving protesters discount coupons to using an army of police officers to deter violent protests, and police officials said yesterday that they had identified about 60 people as militants, some of whom were arrested for violent acts in past protests. 
 In a show of force yesterday, the department rolled out its arsenal to show reporters the techniques it is using during convention week. [Page B1.]
 But even anarchists who are against violence are warning of trouble and admit that they are planning acts of civil disobedience, including blocking intersections, staging ''chaos on Broadway'' when the delegates attend Broadway shows on Sunday night, holding a ''die-in'' near Madison Square Garden, sneaking into parties and other functions and generally harassing the 4,853 delegates and alternate delegates.
 ''This is where much of the real business happens, the business of buying and selling our laws to the highest corporate bidder,'' said a message on an Internet discussion list on Tuesday that included the sites of several corporate parties planned during the convention. ''Excellent targets for street actions! Please spread the word.''
 Jamie Moran, the 30-year-old anarchist from Brooklyn who, with a few colleagues, operates the RNC Not Welcome Web site and discussion list, makes a point of casting himself as the moderate face of the movement. He calls police suggestions that they may be attacked ''fear-mongering'' and has urged his fellow anarchists to cast off their dark clothing and body piercings in favor of more conventional attire, if only to blend in better.
 Like many anarchists, he disavows violence against people. But things get murkier when it comes to property, particularly property belonging to perceived corporate enemies.
 ''I never cry over the destruction of corporate property,'' Mr. Moran said in an interview. But ''that doesn't always mean it's strategic. It can be indiscriminate and un-strategic.''
 Sarah Strombeck, 27, is one self-described anarchist who says she is fed up with the disruptive techniques of her colleagues. She said she was jailed for two weeks after being arrested during a demonstration at the 2000 Republican convention, and says protests have largely been ineffective.
 ''They cost the movement so much,'' Ms. Strombeck said. ''People just get beat up. Some don't want to put the time and effort into community organizing'' advocating for better schools, health care and fair wages.
 Part of the difficulty in discerning which ideas floated for disruptions are real and which are not is that the anarchists, a subculture that includes young people disaffected with political parties and graying adherents to a political philosophy at least a century old, are far from a monolithic group. They pride themselves on organizing in collectives and ''affinity groups'' that operate autonomously and make decisions by consensus, eschewing hierarchy or any whiff of commands from on high.
 Chief John Timoney of the Miami police, whose officers scuffled with anarchists during a World Trade Organization meeting last year and in 2000 during the Republican convention when he headed the Philadelphia police, said they pose a number of challenges to the authorities. He said in many cases the violence can be attributed to a small, hardcore band that moves from city to city, instigating violence.
 ''These guys are pretty sophisticated and just wait for opportunities,'' said Chief Timoney, who as a ranking officer with the New York police confronted anarchist demonstrations during the 1992 Democratic convention. ''They are going to look to provoke the cops. It's all a game.''
 With an obscenity, he dismissed allegations that his officers needlessly roughed up demonstrators in Miami, saying anarchists and other anti-authoritarians had repeatedly provoked the police.
 In Philadelphia, he said, groups of anarchists simply ran down streets, prompting officers to pursue them and creating the impression of chaos. In Miami, he said, they swarmed around officers seeking to arrest troublemakers during otherwise peaceful demonstrations.
 Police officials typically send undercover operatives to gatherings of suspected protesters and watch postings on the Internet, but they usually do not know exactly what is planned until the moment it happens. In addition, some of it could be idle chatter or disinformation: Internet plans to throw acid at officers, for example, were not fulfilled in Miami, nor was a plot to damage news media trucks fulfilled at the Democratic National Convention in Boston last month.
 ''At the end of the day there is too much information,'' he said. ''You need be able to decipher the wheat from the chaff and it is not clear. You can't overreact to the Internet because it can be a 16-year-old kid in Chicago mouthing off.''
 Paul J. Browne, a police spokesman, however, said the police were taking all threats seriously.
 ''We're taking the wheat as wheat,'' he said, adding that the threat posed by anarchists ''is nothing the N.Y.P.D. can't handle.''
 Two years ago, at the World Economic Forum in Manhattan, the police thwarted many attempts to disrupt traffic and vandalize property, making 150 arrests and keeping the violence to a minimum. Some protesters said afterward that they had largely given the city a pass in deference to the Sept. 11 attack.
 But New York may represent a different challenge given the passions over the war in Iraq and the fact that the city has its own vibrant, if fragmented, anarchist scene.
 There are ''Anarchist Soccer'' games on Sundays in Tompkins Square Park, Anarchist People of Color picnics in Central Park, salons and even a small makeshift bookstore in the East Village called Mayday almost entirely devoted to anarchism.
 Definitions vary but most see anti-capitalism as the bedrock of their ideology. They question and disdain authority and hierarchal government as corrupting and intrusive in personal affairs. ''Neither slave nor master'' is a common slogan.
 Some are zealots; others see anarchism as a way to raise awareness of problems like hunger, greed and materialism.
 ''My guiding vision is a society without a state, but I am not necessarily a fundamentalist,'' said Meddle Bolger, 29, an anarchist from Sonoma County in California, who has led several San Francisco Bay Area demonstrations as part of Green Bloc, an anarchist group with an environmental bent. He said he is in New York now to take part in the Aug. 31 day of civil disobedience and rehabilitate community gardens in the South Bronx.
 Chuck Munson, a 39-year-old anarchist in Kansas who runs the anarchist site infoshop.org, said he has observed more young people, particularly those once drawn to the ''do-it-yourself politics'' of the punk movement, drawn to anarchism after the first Persian Gulf war and the fall of the Soviet Union.
 After those events, ''people saw the traditional radical left as not as relevant any more,'' he said. ''I think it opened up interest in anarchism.''
 The 1999 Seattle protests, known in anarchist circles as ''the battle in Seattle,'' is now seen as a turning point. Many anarchists believe that, despite any sullying of their reputation, it raised awareness of what they consider the evils of global capitalism.
 The standard mass marches of chanting slogans and waving signs, they believe, hardly make as forceful a point.
 ''Direct action gets the goods,'' Mr. Moran, the Brooklynite, said.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Friday about self-described anarchists who plan to protest at the Republican National Convention in New York misidentified the 2003 event in Miami that led to scuffles between anarchists and the police. It was a meeting of trade ministers to draw up an agreement called the Free Trade Area of the Americas -- not a meeting of the World Trade Organization.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jamie Moran, right, with Sean Flagherty in Mr. Moran's apartment. They are members of the group called RNC Not Welcome. Mr. Moran calls police suggestions that anarchists may be attacked ''fear-mongering.'' (Photo by Yoni Brook/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CRIMES AGAINST PERSONS (78%); RIOTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (76%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (72%); INTERVIEWS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



453 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Khorkina's Final Act Centers on Bitterness

BYLINE: By SELENA ROBERTS

DATELINE: ATHENS 

 BODY:
THE other competitors eagerly chatted with their coaches using high-pitched voices in need of WD-40; Svetlana Khorkina hardly spoke at all as she overemoted like a silent film star while glaring and sulking as usual, even topping herself by disdainfully sticking out her tongue at one score.
 The other gymnasts, dressed in lollipop-colored leotards, displayed the bodies of thumbs as they stood eye-high to a lunch counter on the mat; Khorkina, dressed in evening-gown black, towered above them at a reedy 5-foot-5 but looked even taller with her three-quarter sleeves worn in Lurch style.
 In the last rotation of the glamorous all-around competition, as the final woman on the floor, the American Carly Patterson flashed angelic joy during her floor routine, leaving the smitten judges no choice but to award her the coveted gold medal.
 A few minutes earlier, Khorkina had forced a smile through her famous patrician detachment as if feigning joy at the gift of a fruitcake during a flawed floor performance that sealed her fate as the runner-up. 
 Soon, the gold and bronze medalists would pose with the happy faces fit for school pictures on the podium. Having once posed for Russian Playboy, Khorkina, draped in silver, would exit her third and final Olympics by flirting with the Russian fans who held up a Queen Khorkina sign.
 She couldn't complete the exit gracefully, though. That would not be Khorkina. She told Russian reporters how suspicious she was of the scoring, adding later that the judges ''are the ones who are going to have to live with their conscience.''
 Khorkina wasn't done, yet. With Patterson sitting next to her at the news conference, Khorkina proclaimed through an interpreter, ''I know exactly what I'm going to say: I'm still Olympic champion'' -- as if saying it would make it true.
 Once the winner had left the room, Khorkina explained the difference between her silver and Patterson's gold: ''I'm from Russia and Carly is from the U.S.A. Just joking.''
 She was not kidding, of course. Khorkina was truly bitter. With gold medals on the uneven bars in the 1996 Atlanta Games and at Sydney in 2000, the Great Khorkina ended her Olympic career last night never having won the all-around title she craved for her legacy. 
 ''She had her time,'' said Evgeny Marchenko, Patterson's coach.
 Marchenko was also a national coach for the Soviet Union until the fall of Communism in 1991. He knew Khorkina long before she began to strut around on her flamingo legs with regal indifference.
 ''She's the actress on the stage,'' Bart Conner, a former United States Olympic star, said. ''There's drama whether she wins or whether she doesn't.''
 But where does making a scene cross the line? Upon her controversial departure, Khorkina leaves a trail of ambivalence. 
 As the antipixie at age 25, Khorkina has added a woman's touch to the child pageant of sports. As a survivor of political change, Khorkina began training under the rigid red machine of the Soviet Union, watched coaches like Marchenko flee to America when the Soviet Union collapsed and then succeeded in the 90's despite the economic slump of a transitioning Russia.
 And yet, no one can seem to compliment Khorkina without an escape clause.
 ''You have to tip your hat to her,'' said Bela Karolyi, a longtime coach of elite American gymnasts whose fame is rooted in Romania. ''Svetlana is 24, 25, and is out there starving herself to death, puking her guts out, or whatever she is doing.''
 This dig from a coach who once asked Mary Lou Retton to ''eat air.'' But this is what Khorkina does to people: she elicits begrudging praise.
 She deserves a little more than backhanded compliments, though. For a decade, she has given gymnastics an intriguing older character amid the dull bubble-gum set of athletes.
 ''Age isn't important to me,'' Khorkina recently told The Times of London. ''You know they say a man sometimes prefers older women because they can satisfy him more. It's the same in gymnastics.''
 Her aura has been impossible to ignore. It will be missed. Who else will fans love or loathe? She has given gymnastics a villain who is oddly capable of being a sympathetic hero when the injustice of her dramatic career has been particularly cruel.
 At the 2000 Sydney Games, Khorkina came into the all-around final with gold in her sights, starting off with a 9.812 on the floor exercise. Then came the infamous vault. 
 Not once, but twice, she landed ingloriously on her knees. Distraught, with tears rolling down her sunken cheeks, she couldn't gather herself for her signature event, the uneven bars. How could this be? 
 An astute Australian gymnast had the answer: the vault had been set too low, by 1.9 inches, when Khorkina had performed. Groveling officials offered Khorkina another chance on the vault. She dismissed them in anger. It was too late. She had crashed on the uneven bars. Her gold-medal dream was already in ruins. The queen of cold wept. 
 ''How many things do you remember from Sydney, but you somehow remember Svetlana Khorkina?'' Conner said. ''To this day, people who don't know gymnastics ask, 'Who was that thin girl from Russia, remember her, the drama one?' She loves to be the center of attention however it turns out for her, and it always works to her advantage.''
 So Khorkina did last night what Khorkina always does: she made the event about herself. This time, she went too far in her self-indulgence -- even for Khorkina.


GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Svetlana Khorkina of Russia (silver), Carly Patterson of the United States (gold) and Zhang Nan of China (bronze) appearing on the medals stand last night. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. D11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); GYMNASTICS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); FILM (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%) Olympic Games; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Gymnastics; Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics)

COMPANY: WD-40 CO (58%)

TICKER: WDFC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325613 SURFACE ACTIVE AGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324191 PETROLEUM LUBRICATING OIL & GREASE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2992 LUBRICATING OILS & GREASES (58%); SIC2843 SURFACE ACTIVE AGENTS, FINISHING AGENTS, SULFONATED OILS, & ASSISTANTS (58%)

PERSON: Selena Roberts; Svetlana Khorkina; Carly Patterson

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%) GEORGIA, USA (71%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (90%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



454 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: Rewards Have Risks on the Tehran Stock Exchange

BYLINE: By BORZOU DARAGAHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Iran, Aug. 19 

 BODY:
As many global equities markets have languished, the Tehran Stock Exchange has performed magnificently, topping world markets in the last few years and rewarding investors with 125 percent gains in the fiscal year ended March 21 and another 15 percent since.
 But even for the mostly domestic investors allowed to participate, the market's list of risks is also outsized. Unscrupulous brokers manipulate closing prices and allocate shares to favored clients rather than to those offering the best bids. Companies sometimes provide false forecasts to allow friends to buy or sell shares at favorable prices. Few financial advisers, stock market pundits or investment bank analysts provide any research or fundamental analysis of the exchange, which has become something of a forbidden fruit of emerging markets investing.
 In recent months, efforts have intensified to fix the problems at the 35-year-old Tehran Stock Exchange, revise its rules, offer new products and pry it open to foreigners, though American investors will still be barred because of a United States ban on doing business with Iran. 
 ''It's going toward an exchange which is up to level of the Iranian economy,'' Dr. Hossein Abdoh Tabrizi, secretary general of the exchange and the man behind the effort, said in a telephone interview. ''The Iranian economy is not a small one. Maybe we have a lot of mismanagement, but it is a rich country and it can have a capital market that is much bigger. If we don't have an international disaster imposed on us, I don't think we're exposed to big risks.''
 Managers of United States emerging market funds rarely even watch the exchange. Jonathan Asante, chief economist and manager of two emerging market funds worth $120 million for London-based Framlington Investment Management, the British partner of Munder Capital Management in the United States, said markets in Iran and other oil-rich gulf countries were too pricey.
 ''Last time I looked at Iran, it wasn't cheap,'' said Mr. Asante, whose funds include Israeli and Egyptian companies. ''When oil prices are doing well, you'll find the prices in these oil-related countries going up. These countries have a lot of money coming in and they have some capital controls keeping money in the country.''
 And some foreign investors who are watching are dubious that the new efforts will have much effect. 
 ''No major step toward liberalizing the stock market has been taken yet, although there's a lot of talk about that,'' said Vafa Ahmadi, a portfolio manager of Iranian descent at Aurel Leven Gestion, a Paris-based asset management firm overseeing $1.2 billion in mostly European assets.
 ''I can't say as a fund manager what is the fair value of the Tehran Stock Exchange as a whole because of many specific risks which you cannot price,'' like Iran's currency inflation and vague legal framework, Mr. Ahmadi added.
 The exchange, which opened in 1968 under the shah, all but died after Iran's Islamic revolution and the ensuing war with Iraq, re-emerging in fits and starts in the late 1980's. Though tiny compared with equity markets in New York, London or Tokyo, the Tehran exchange's market cap has increased from $17 billion in June 1999, when the current boom began, to $44 billion, with 400 listed companies, up from 220 a decade ago. The amount of money traded daily has quintupled in the last two years, to around $50 million in March, a rate comparable to that of the exchanges in other Middle East and North African countries, excluding Turkey.
 With that growth have come increased scrutiny and calls to place it under a more powerful regulatory system to devise and enforce rules guaranteeing transparency, protecting investors and penalizing misconduct.
 There is a very long way to go.
 ''In terms of regulations and systems, the T.S.E. is still in the stone age, and despite a lot of efforts so far only few improvements have taken place,'' Albrecht Frischenschlager, the director of Pars Investment, said in an e-mail message. Pars, a financial information service here, plans to have its Web site be an investment portal for online trading by investors inside and outside Iran.
 The exchange's own practices sometimes encourage misbehavior. The price of newly listed companies is not determined by the market, but by negotiation between the exchange and the company. And the exchange, wanting every initial public offering to be a success, insists on an artificially low price.
 Companies are not allowed to report important news directly to the public but must first report it to the exchange, which sometimes disputes figures for days or weeks before releasing the information.
 ''This obviously opens the door wide for insider trading of friends of T.S.E. officials,'' Mr. Frischenschlager said.
 Iran has no equivalent of an NASD or a Securities and Exchange Commission. Indeed, there are few security laws or regulatory agencies to enforce. No one can recall a case in which anyone was prosecuted for insider trading. 
 ''We don't have an Eliot Spitzer,'' said a former international relations officer for the exchange and now a financial consultant who requested anonymity. In the absence of market makers, some listed companies have set up subsidiaries to buy and sell their own stock, helping to control their stock prices. And with the dearth of analysts, many individual investors get stock information by picking up tips or watching the computer screens in the exchange's crowded lobby.
 Investors, companies and government officials have long recognized the need for change, which has been delayed thus far mostly because of political disputes over who ultimately is in charge of the exchange, Bank Markazi Iran -- Iran's central bank -- or the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Still, there have been some glimmers of hope. To prevent price manipulation, the Tehran Stock Exchange is upgrading its trading system. It has announced plans to set up trading floors in other major Iranian cities to give people better access to information. To prevent volatility, it has imposed 5 percent limits on daily price fluctuations. 
 Lately, an informal coalition led by Dr. Abdoh, who received a doctorate in finance from the Manchester Business School in England and took the helm at the exchange last year, has pushed a capital markets bill that, if approved by the government, might curb many of the remaining abuses.
 Dr. Abdoh has high hopes for the exchange, predicting that trading volume will grow to $100 million and total market cap to $100 billion in the next two years, despite Iran's international troubles, including Washington's accusations of meddling in Iraq and Afghanistan and its ban on investing in Iran, as well as a global clamor over Iran's development of nuclear technology.
 Government agencies have rallied behind the proposed market reforms, seeing them as a way to privatize government-owned businesses and help fill government coffers. They also hope to avoid perceptions of unfairness that clouded market crashes in 1993, when a speculative bubble burst, and the correction of 1997, when individual investors who lost big carried placards outside the stock exchange. 
 ''There were no mechanisms to slow down growth in share prices,'' said the former exchange official. ''There weren't any safety mechanisms to protect the rights of shareholders.''
 Investment companies and banks want to introduce new products, like bonds and derivatives, but are awaiting a modern regulatory system. Over 50 exchange-listed companies have expressed interest in issuing bonds by June 2005.
 Dr. Abdoh said that seven companies had been given the approval to issue Iran's first corporate bonds. They are scheduled to be sold soon through the existing network of 57 or so stock brokerages, he said.
 Still, so far even domestic mutual funds are out of the question. ''The problem is, basically, that there are presently no regulations governing funds,'' Mr. Frischenschlager said in an e-mail message.
 Iranians see the stock market as another way to attract foreign capital. For now, interested investors can only buy direct stakes in companies, with government approval; buy shares of the few Iranian companies that have listed in other countries, like Luxembourg; or buy Tehran stock exchange shares through free trade zones with brokers acting as trustees. 
 But government officials have thus far killed Iran fund proposals by the Egyptian bank EFG-Hermes Holding and the Singapore-based Asian Capital Partners. And the current law under discussion would allow just 10 percent of the exchange's total market cap to be owned by foreigners and would require them to keep their money in the market for three years. It would also bar individual foreign investors.
 Dr. Abdoh says many in the financial community worry about the uncertainties foreigners would introduce if given unfettered access. ''If we let a lot of money flow in, we're going to have price bubbles,'' he said. ''There's also a lack of experience in these areas. So we're trying to be cautious.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Hossein Abdoh Tabrizi, secretary general of the exchange, predicted that trading volume would grow to $100 million in the next two years. At left, a merchant follows the boards on the Tehran exchange. (Photographs by Abbas Kowsari/Polaris)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); INTERVIEWS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MUNDER CAPITAL MANAGEMENT (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



455 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 3362 words

HEADLINE: THEATER GUIDE

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy Broadway and Off Broadway shows this weekend. Approximate running times are in parentheses. * denotes a highly recommended show.
+ means discounted tickets were at the Theater Development Fund's TKTS booth for performances last Friday and Saturday nights.
++ means tickets were at the TKTS booth for last Friday night only.
+++ means tickets were at the TKTS booth for last Saturday night only.

Broadway

+ ''AFTER THE FALL.'' Perhaps there is something anesthetizing in the discovery that no one in the world is innocent. Portraying a man in thrall to this harsh revelation in a grievously misconceived revival of ''After the Fall,'' Arthur Miller's 1964 drama of moral disillusionment, Peter Krause (of ''Six Feet Under'' on television) certainly appears to be feeling no pain. Or joy. Or any of the stronger emotions that crop up in between. As Quentin, a woman-bedeviled lawyer in search of human connection, Mr. Krause leads the audience through his character's mind like a dutiful museum guide. This is not a winning attitude to bring to a play that is essentially one man's cosmic yelp. And the director, Michael Mayer, does little to raise the emotional temperature. Staged as if it were a breezy period sex comedy, the production suffers from the depth-denying bad faith that the play makes a point of condemning. As Quentin's angry wives, Jessica Hecht and Carla Gugino (as the Marilyn Monroe-like Maggie) provide some much-needed energy (2:30) American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. Tuesday to Saturday at 8pm; Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets: $46.25 to $86.25 (Ben Brantley).

* ''AVENUE Q'' (Tony Award winner for best musical, original score and book of a musical). The inspired brainchild of the songwriters Robert Lopez and Jeff Marx, this canny toy chest of a musical takes its stylistic cues from ''Sesame Street,'' from its cheery urban set to its singing puppets of assorted colors and dispositions. And in doing so it becomes the first mainstream musical since ''Rent'' to coo with such seductive directness to theatergoers on the fair side of 40 in their own language, in which irony is less a mind-set than a loosely worn style. Directed by Jason Moore, with a book by Jeff Whitty, the show applies the coaxing, learning-is-fun attitude of children's educational television to the R-rated situations of postcollegiate life in the big city. Featuring a pitch-perfect ensemble of live performers and oversize hand puppets, ''Avenue Q'' is to ''Sesame Street'' what Mel Brooks's ''Producers'' is to vintage Broadway musicals: a connoisseur's tribute to what it only seems to send up (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Mondays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $46.25 and $96.25, with a limited number of $21.25 tickets available by lottery at the theater at 5:30 p.m. for the evening show and at 11:30 a.m. for the matinee (Brantley).

+ ''BOMBAY DREAMS.'' Colors don't come any juicier than those that saturate this $14 million musical about movie love, Bollywood-style. Scarcely a scene goes by that isn't splashed with gorgeous heaping helpings of oranges, golds, greens, purples, yellows and more shades of pink than even Estee Lauder had names for. Yet such is the perverse spell cast by this friendly, flat and finally unengaging tale of glamorous movie stars and lovable untouchables that everything seems to melt into one neutral blur before your eyes, like a monochromatic symphony in the key of beige. A R Rahman's score has a certain rhythmic infectiousness. And as a self-centered Bollywood screen siren, the deliciously superficial Ayesha Dharker helps turn the central production numbers into lively paeans to Bollywood kitsch. But under the direction of Steven Pimlott, this retooling of a hit from London feels trapped in a listless limbo between tipsy spoof and sober sincerity (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $41.25 to $101.25 (Brantley).

''THE BOY FROM OZ'' (Tony winner for best actor in a musical). Hugh Jackman's shoulders must ache like the devil when he wakes up in the morning. This able-bodied, infinitely appealing young man is spending most of his nights engaged in some painfully heavy lifting that no shoulders, no matter how broad, should be asked to attempt. That's what happens when you put an indisputably authentic star like Mr. Jackman at the center of an indisputably bogus show like ''The Boy From Oz,'' the bathetic musical biography of the Australian entertainer and songwriter Peter Allen, directed by Philip Wm. McKinley. Were it not for Mr. Jackman, there would be no reason to recommend this backstage, back-story look at show business, which makes the movie of ''Valley of the Dolls'' seem like ''Children of Paradise.'' But let it be said that the electric Mr. Jackman, best known for the ''X-Men'' movies, never looks as if he's even thinking about shrugging this soggy cardboard world of a show off his shoulders (2:30). Imperial, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $61.25 to $101.25 (Brantley).

+ ''CAROLINE, OR CHANGE'' (Tony winner for best featured actress in a musical, Anika Noni Rose). A carefully wrought, impeccably performed chamber opera from Tony Kushner (''Angels in America'') and Jeanine Tesori (''Thoroughly Modern Millie''), directed by George C. Wolfe. In temperament this sung-through show is much like its stoical, uncompromising title character (Tonya Pinkins), a black maid for a Southern Jewish family in 1963. A current of self-denial runs through ''Caroline,'' from a libretto that refuses to sentimentalize its heroine to its deliberately fragmented score that avoids anthems of uplift. The tone throughout is evenhanded, slightly distanced compassion as people of different classes are revealed as pawns of a corrupting economic structure. Ms. Pinkins, who has never been better, gives an intense, controlled and commanding performance. O'Neill, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $26 to $101 (Brantley).

+ ''FIDDLER ON THE ROOF.'' Should the entertainment entrepreneurs of Branson, Mo., ever come up with a pavilion called Shtetl Land, this is what it would be like. In David Leveaux's handsomely mounted, antiseptically acted revival of this beloved musical of Jewish life in Russia, circa 1900, the ensemble members go through their paces of song, dance and Yiddish humor with a bland, dutiful cheer that rarely turns into anything more robust. It's a pretty, prim production that is bafflingly devoid of gusto, earthiness and warmth. An aura of enervation starts at the top of the cast, with Alfred Molina's apologetic performance as Tevye the milkman, and penetrates like a paralyzing fog into even the smallest roles. Randy Graff, suggesting a fashion editor who has discovered peasant chic, plays Tevye's wife. Tom Pye's set is lovely to look at, and the orchestra sounds swell. But a ''Fiddler'' without a soul has no reason to be (3:00). Minskoff, 200 West 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $35 to $100 (Brantley).

* ''HAIRSPRAY.'' Portraying the plus-size Baltimore housewife Edna Turnblad, Michael McKean is more creditable than credible. Having appeared in deadpan film mockumentaries like ''This Is Spinal Tap,'' Mr. McKean knows the value of playing comedy straight. He doesn't accessorize Edna's housecoat with overwrought feminine mannerisms, and his timing is dead-on. Yet unlike his Tony Award-winning predecessor, Harvey Fierstein, Mr. McKean never makes that final leap of faith that brings out the woman in a man. This shifts the show's emphasis to the younger generation in this pop fable of racial integration and rock 'n' roll. And Carly Jibson, as the boundary-breaking Tracy Turnblad, and Jennifer Gambatese, as her nerdy best friend, combine the hormonal glow of adolescence with the confidence of old pros. Though ''Hairspray'' can be tedious when preaching via big-throated anthems or satirizing via clunky caricature, it is newly vibrant in bringing out the randy rhythms in early rock 'n' roll that made parents fear for their children's chastity (2:30). Simon, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $65 to $100, with a limited number of $25 tickets available by lottery at the theater at 5 p.m. for the evening show and at 11 a.m. for the matinee (Brantley).

*+ ''I AM MY OWN WIFE'' (Tony winner for best play and best actor in a play). Doug Wright's one-actor play, with a thrillingly accomplished performance by Jefferson Mays and a diamond-sharp production directed by Moises Kaufman, tells a terrific story based on a real person, Charlotte von Mahlsdorf (ne Lothar Berfelde), a soft-spoken but tenaciously gender-bending biological man who died in 2002 at 74. Her lifelong obsession -- Mahlsdorf preferred to be thought of as female -- was the preservation of furniture, especially from the 1890's, and other household relics like Victrolas and gramophones. Her devotion to her astonishing collection, with which she turned her home into a museum, gave focus and motivation to a life whose grandest achievement was that it proceeded to its natural end. The play is largely about Charlotte's enduring the cruel repressions of the Nazis and the Communists, and her harrowing tales of survival through the eras of the Gestapo and the Stasi are nothing short of breathtaking. Ah, but are they credible? That also becomes an issue in the play, which very subtly but, in the end, quite powerfully makes a case for the necessity of storytelling in our lives (2:15). Lyceum, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $61.25 to $86.25, with $20 student and teacher tickets at the box office the day of show (Bruce Weber).

*+ ''WONDERFUL TOWN'' (Tony winner for choreography). In this captivating revival of Leonard Bernstein's musical love poem to Manhattan, Donna Murphy gives one of the most dazzlingly accomplished performances you're ever likely to see. As the writer Ruth Sherwood, the role Rosalind Russell slayed 'em with in 1954, Ms. Murphy blithely juggles assorted gleaming styles without ever breaking character. If much of Kathleen Marshall's staging of this tale of dewy Ohio sisters in New York isn't up to Ms. Murphy, well, what would be? Jennifer Westfeldt is charming as Ruth's boy-magnet of a sister. And the orchestra, under the direction of Rob Fisher, is superb, giving ebullient life to Bernstein's lighthearted city symphony of a score. The wisecracking lyrics are by Comden and Green Gregg Edelman is the manly object of both sisters' affections (2:30). Hirschfeld, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $56 and $101 (Brantley).

Off Broadway

*+ ''BUG.'' Have you ever been to a play that made you itch all over? Paranoia festers in the skin, as provokingly physical as a poison-ivy rash, in Tracy Letts's lurid story of a man, a woman and a whole lot of really tiny critters. Scratching is the least of what its characters do to try to ease their discomfort. The visceral wallop of ''Bug'' is likely to come as a shock -- even to fans of Mr. Letts's ''Killer Joe.'' ''Bug'' also inspires laughs, but of a much more uneasy variety. Directed with expert and sadistic timing by Dexter Bullard, this production ultimately drags you by force into the fear and squalor onstage, making this the theater season's wildest ride (2:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $55; $60 for the evening shows on Fridays and Saturdays (Brantley).

*++ ''THE DAY EMILY MARRIED.'' Over more than half a century, Horton Foote has spun a series of hypnotically heartbroken tales for the stage about the residents of Harrison, a small town where knowing everbody who lives there -- and all their private soap operas -- is no guarantee against solitude. Sweet, salty and curiously addictive, Mr. Foote's plays unfold with the soft-voiced, chattering ease of gossip over coffee on the front porch. But if Harrison's stories of wrecked marriages, closet vices and family feuds give it a surface resemblance to Peyton Place, it also has a fair amount in common with the blasted heath of ''King Lear.'' This latest study in mortal loneliness, in which a middle-aged woman and her new husband move in with her aged parents, occasionally tips into overstated melodrama. But under Michael Wilson's direction, Mr. Foote's uniquely harsh sentimentality is wonderfully evoked by a cast that includes Estelle Parsons, William Biff McGuire and Hallie Foote, the playwright's daughter and a peerless interpreter of his sensibility (2:30). Primary Stages, 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. Added 2 p.m. performance this Wednesday; no 8 p.m. performance. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $60 (Brantley).

+ ''FICTION.'' Steven Dietz's artfully constructed play is flawlessly delivered by its three-member cast. It's just too bad that the two main characters are the kinds of people you can't stand to be around for more than 10 minutes. Their names are Linda and Michael, and they converse in a brainy, allusion-filled banter that seems sophisticated but is really just irritating. The literary citations, pop-culture references and other aren't-I-smart affectations never let up. Linda and Michael, portrayed with admirable verve by Julie White and Tom Irwin, are writers who have kept private journals through their long and seemingly stable marriage. When Linda develops a brain tumor, she asks to spend her last days reading his, and of course there's a secret within. The secret's name is Abby, a sexy remnant from a writers' colony Michael attended years before, and Emily Bergl plays her with a sharp-edged allure that is the production's best feature (2:00). Laura Pels, Harold & Miriam Steinberg Center for Theatre, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. Tuesday through Saturday at 7:30 p.m.; Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets: $51.25 to $61.25 (Neil Genzlinger).

+ ''THE MUSICAL OF MUSICALS -- THE MUSICAL!'' A good parody needs smart writers and winning performers; ''The Musical of Musicals -- The Musical!,'' a York Theater production, has four, and two are the composer Eric Rockwell and the lyricist Joanne Bogart. Taking their plot straight from corny old melodrama, they spoof the styles of Rodgers and Hammerstein, Stephen Sondheim, Jerry Herman, Andrew Lloyd Webber, and Kander and Ebb. The Jerry Herman segment is the weakest because his work is the simplest; the pretensions of Lord Lloyd Webber make a better target. The other three are good, zany fun (1:40). The Theater at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, (212) 868-4444. Mondays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2:30 p.m. Tickets: $55 (Margo Jefferson).

Last Chance

++ ''ADDRESS UNKNOWN.'' You don't need to see swastikas to know when there's a Nazi onstage. From the moment William Atherton first appears in Frank Dunlop's dust-caked adaptation of Kathrine Kressman Taylor's short novel from 1938, he bristles with those telltale tics associated with films like ''The Damned'' and ''The Night Porter,'' made when brownshirt psychosexuality was all the rage. Such explicit iconography doesn't serve the best interests of this 75-minute, two-character epistolary drama, directed by Mr. Dunlop and also starring Jim Dale. The old-fashioned literary frissons of Taylor's best seller, one of the first American works of fiction to deal with Nazi anti-Semitism, come from watching a character who seems comfortably familiar turn by degrees into a rabid disciple of Hitler. But while Mr. Dale gives a typically fine-grained performance as the Jewish art dealer who is betrayed by his former best friend (Mr. Atherton's character), that shivery transformation never really registers in this static, literal-minded production (1:15). Promenade Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $65, with a limited number of $20 student rush tickets available at the box office one hour before the performance (Brantley).

+ ''THE BOOTH VARIATIONS.'' A seriously ambitious mixed-media work about the celebrated and notorious 19th-century family of actors: Junius Booth and his sons, Edwin and John Wilkes. Written by Todd Cerveris and Carida Svich and directed by Nick Philippou, the show combines contemporary techology with the archaically heightened style of acting of 150 years ago. Featuring often haunting video sequences by Peter Nigrini and Mr. Philippou, used in couterpoint with Mr. Cerveris's live performance as Edwin, the production is sparked by bright insights about the shadowy relationship between performers and their audiences. The play is at its most persuasive as a precise anatomy of an actor's art and life -- gesture by gesture, tour stop by tour stop -- and of their appropriation by a hungry public. Mr. Cerveris's brother, Michael Cerveris, shows up in satanic video interludes as John Wilkes Booth, the role for which he won a Tony Award in the musical ''Assassins'' (1:35). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; Sunday at 3 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $30 (Brantley).

*+ ''FROZEN.'' For a play centered on a serial murderer of little girls, Bryony Lavery's humane, intelligent drama is striking for its sustained aura of ordinariness. No trace of sensationalism colors Doug Hughes's beautifully acted, carefully considered production, which stars Swoosie Kurtz (as the child's mother), Brian F. O'Byrne (who won a Tony Award for best featured actor in a play, as the murderer) and Laila Robins (as an academic specializing in serial killers). The characters, who often speak in monologues, don't so much vent their intense emotions as betray them through involuntary eruptions that they quickly stifle. In the age of the Amber Alert and Megan's Law, ''Frozen'' brings a coolly discursive attitude to a hot-button subject. This is not to say it is in any way unfeeling (2:15). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $85 (Brantley).

+++ ''LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS.'' In the desperate, tourist-courting world of cultural appropriation on Broadway, this bland revival of the 1982 musical does not rank as a major offender. It is directed with silky efficiency by Jerry Zaks. Howard Ashman's droll, cliche-bending lyrics and book -- about a florist's nerdy assistant who befriends a people-eating plant -- remain in place, as does Alan Menken's gleeful 1960's-pastiche score. There is also an array of personable, professional young talent, now headed by Joey Fatone. Yet the show has been stripped of the urban grit and parodic wit of the downtown production of two decades ago. The overall effect is, if not exactly pleasurable, then pleasant. As an exercise in recycling, the principal industry among Broadway producers now, this ''Little Shop'' suggests the conversion of sharp, shiny tin into something closer to Teflon (2:00). Virginia, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $61 to $101 (Brantley).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Todd Cerveris in ''The Booth Variations,'' at the 59E59 Theaters. (Photo by Jason Lindberg Photography)
 Jessica-Snow Wilson and Joey Fatone in ''Little Shop of Horrors.'' (Photo by Joan Marcus) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (66%); SONG WRITING (61%); CITY LIFE (60%); THEATER (58%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



456 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Economics and Disasters

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''With Storm Gone, Floridians Are Hit With Price Gouging'' (front page, Aug. 18):
 Lore has it that kings of old occasionally killed messengers bearing bad news. Government officials who punish merchants who raise prices in the aftermath of natural disasters like Hurricane Charley behave much like those ancient despots. 
 The sole cause of the increased value of available supplies is Charley's swift destruction of homes, businesses, inventories and supply lines. And although unfortunate, this increased value is a fact. 
 Higher prices are simply a means of informing consumers that existing supplies must now be economized on more carefully than before.

Donald J. Boudreaux
Fairfax, Va., Aug. 18, 2004

The writer is chairman of the economics department, George Mason University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (88%); WEATHER (88%); HURRICANES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Charley (Storm); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Donald J Boudreaux

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%) Florida 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



457 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Jobless Rate Down Slightly

BYLINE: By Lydia Polgreen (NYT); Compiled by George James

 BODY:
New York City's unemployment rate dropped slightly in July, to 7.5 percent, down from 7.8 percent in June, as the city added 8,500 private-sector jobs, according to seasonally adjusted figures released yesterday by the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr. There was a net loss of jobs for the month, however, because more than 12,000 government jobs disappeared. Trade, transportation and utilities added jobs, but several key sectors, including finance and manufacturing, lost jobs. The city's economy has recovered from the recession more slowly than the national economy, though the gap is narrowing, Mr. Thompson said. Lydia Polgreen (NYT)


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); LAYOFFS (88%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); JOB CREATION (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (86%) Labor; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen; William C Thompson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



458 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 3400 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses.

Now Playing

''ALIEN VS. PREDATOR,'' starring Sanaa Lathan and Ewen Bremner. Directed by Paul W. S. Anderson (PG-13, 110 minutes). Set in a Jules Verne world beneath the earth's surface in an incalculably ancient pyramid buried 2,000 feet beneath the Antarctic ice cap, Mr. Anderson's film imagines an apocalyptic conflict between two of 20th Century Fox's franchise monsters, on loan from ''Alien'' (1979) and ''Predator'' (1986). The humans don't have much to do in ''Alien vs. Predator'' but put the plot in motion and stand back to watch it work, a precarious position that eventually claims most of them. Though it turns out that Mr. Anderson does have an idea for creating a rooting interest, it's too far-fetched even for fantasy, and the film turns into a cold but occasionally impressive special-effects extravaganza (Dave Kehr).

* ''BEFORE SUNSET,'' starring Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy. Directed by Richard Linklater (R, 80 minutes). Nine years after parting, in Vienna, at the end of ''Before Sunrise,'' Jesse (Mr. Hawke) and Celine (Ms. Delpy) rediscover each other in Paris and relive their brief encounter. This time it is even briefer: the film unfolds, without skipping a minute, in the hour or so before Jesse must catch a plane home to New York, and all those minutes are filled with looping, self-conscious talk as the reunited lovers wander along the Seine. Their intimacy is tinged with nostalgic regret. The airy sense of freedom that they shared in their early 20's has given way to the resignation of adulthood, even as they meander toward a second chance. The liberating sweetness of the earlier movie has mellowed into a saltier, sadder flavor, but Mr. Linklater, one of our most literate and intelligent directors, has not talked himself out of the possibility of romance, and the movie's relaxed, discursive structure is dense with implied feeling and oblique drama (A. O. Scott).

* ''THE BOURNE SUPREMACY,'' starring Matt Damon. Directed by Paul Greengrass (PG-13; 120 minutes). It may sound odd to call a chilly, paranoid thriller entertainment comfort food. But in the wake of 9/11 this globe-trotting post-cold-war melodrama full of standard cloak-and-dagger intrigue has the reassuring aroma of a home-cooked meal. There are no jihads or terrorists in sight and no apocalyptic scenarios, only dirty little secrets, as spies and counterspies from Russia and the United States tangle in a grubby story involving oil, sold secrets, murders and cover-ups. In this sequel to ''The Bourne Identity,'' many of the major hands who created the first film have returned, including Mr. Damon as Jason Bourne, the C.I.A.-trained assassin who still has serious memory problems and can't recall why he is being hunted by everybody, although blurry flashbacks leave him with clues. As before, he spends almost the entire movie on the run. The thriller reminds you that rhythms of film editing and collage-making have allowed Hollywood to make the chase movie a surefire format. Plot and character ultimately don't matter much in a film that's all about building and sustaining a mood in which visceral and emotional rhythms are blended into a high-gloss thrill ride (Stephen Holden).

''CATWOMAN,'' starring Halle Berry, Benjamin Bratt and Sharon Stone. Directed by Pitof (PG-13, 110 minutes). Ms. Berry, doing her utmost to persuade the Academy to take back her Oscar, plays Patience, a flighty would-be artist who is bumped off after she uncovers the nefarious corporate secrets of a cosmetics company. Brought to life by feline mouth-to-mouth, she acquires interesting cat powers and cat behaviors, and begins eating tuna straight out of the can, stealing jewels and carrying a whip. Mr. Bratt is the upright, studly cop who serves as her obligatory love interest, and Ms. Stone is her icy rival. There is a diverting element of campy, kinky sexuality in this mess, and lots of bright colors and stroboscopic editing effects. In the end, though, you might find yourself thinking back fondly on ''Garfield'' (Scott).

* ''COLLATERAL,'' starring Tom Cruise and Jamie Foxx. Directed by Michael Mann (R, 115 minutes). In ''Collateral,'' the edgy new thriller from Mr. Mann, the city never sleeps; it doesn't even relax. Set in Los Angeles mostly after dark, after the city's sunshine has given way to cool noir, the story centers on a taxi driver, Max (Mr. Foxx), and the assassin, Vincent (Mr. Cruise), who hops a ride with him deep into the night. Pitched between interludes of anxious intimacy and equally nerve-shredding set pieces, ''Collateral'' scores its points with underhand precision. The film is about a lot of different things, about how Los Angeles lights up even at night, how cars become prostheses of ourselves and how driving with the radio on can be bliss. But as with all of Mr. Mann's movies, ''Collateral'' is finally about men and work, and about how being a man is itself a kind of job, which explains why this fastidiously made commercial film isn't just an entertainment, but a statement of personal faith (Manohla Dargis).

''DE-LOVELY,'' starring Kevin Kline and Ashley Judd. Directed by Irwin Winkler (PG-13, 125 minutes). Unfolding as a bumpy, muddled ''This Is Your Life'' series of confusing, overcrowded tableaus, the new Cole Porter biography gives you the creepy sense of watching adult children (with the singular exception of Mr. Kline, who can surmount any disaster) dressed up in period costume at a school pageant. Although its publicity goes out of its way to pat the movie on the back for its supposed candor about Porter's homosexuality, the film's attitude toward sex is dainty. The heat in a film about the man who wrote ''Too Darn Hot'' remains a steady, air-conditioned 68 degrees. It can't imagine a wealthy, sophisticated couple marrying for friendship and social advantage without that arrangement involving torment and guilt over its lack of sex. Some two dozen Porter songs are glossed by contemporary singers like Elvis Costello (''Let's Misbehave''), Sheryl Crow (''Begin the Beguine'') and Diana Krall (''Just One of Those Things''). If they're not awful, these labored interpretations are undercut by flimsy period arrangements (Holden).

* ''THE DOOR IN THE FLOOR,'' starring Jeff Bridges, Kim Basinger and Jon Foster. Written and directed by Tod Williams (R, 111 minutes). Avoiding the traps of sentimentality and overdone whimsy that lie in wait for adaptors of John Irving's fiction, Mr. Williams has made a version of ''A Widow for One Year'' that is better than the book. Mr. Foster plays Eddie, a prep school student who spends a long, eventful summer working as an assistant to Ted Cole (Mr. Bridges), a famous writer and illustrator of children's books. Ted and his wife, Marion (Ms. Basinger), are still grieving over the loss of their two sons in a car accident years before, and their marriage is falling apart. All of this might have made maudlin, precious melodrama -- especially when Eddie and Marion begin their affair -- but rather than emphasize the plot, Mr. Williams makes it a relaxed, roomy landscape for the characters to roam around in. The cast rises above the occasional implausibility of the material, and the movie is funny, touching and understated. It is dominated by Mr. Bridges's performance, one of the finest pieces of screen acting by an American man so far this year, a heroically life-size portrait of wounded narcissism and masculine need (Scott).

* ''GARDEN STATE,'' starring Zach Braff, Natalie Portman and Peter Sarsgaard. Written and directed by Mr. Braff (R, 102 minutes). This small, smart, off-kilter comedy has the cheek to present itself as ''The Graduate 2004,'' although its affectionate subversion of a popular classic also stamps it as ''The Anti-Graduate 2004.'' From its story of the waking up of an emotionally numbed young man (Mr. Braff) to its editorial use of a contemporary pop soundtrack, the movie obsessively refers to that 1967 generational landmark. The New Jersey suburban landscape to which Andrew, Mr. Braff's 26-year-old alter ego, returns from self-imposed exile in Los Angeles is a universe apart from the lotus land where he has lived for the last nine years in a chemical stupor. Because ''The Graduate'' established the stock vision of suburban alienation that has persisted through ''American Beauty'' and beyond, you expect ''Garden State'' to uphold the cliche. Instead, it allows Andrew to discover some nuggets of spiritual gold in the East Coast wasteland he dreaded revisiting. As precocious filmmaking debuts tend to be, ''Garden State'' is too self-conscious by half, but its struggle to revitalize a cliche by turning it inside out is a worthy one (Holden).

''HAROLD AND KUMAR GO TO WHITE CASTLE,'' starring John Cho and Kal Penn. Directed by Danny Leiner (R, 87 minutes). This stoner, gross-out comedy has one foot here and one foot there. The here is a politically savvy universe where the title characters, 22-year-old New Jersey roommates who are Asian-American (Mr. Cho) and Indian-American (Mr. Penn), puncture ethnic stereotypes. The other foot is rutted knee-deep in the muck of perpetual puerility according to Hollywood. The movie is a sub-sub-''After Hours'' odyssey in which the title characters, while stoned on a Friday night, catch a galloping case of the munchies from a television advertisement for White Castle burgers and embark on an all-night search through the wilds of New Jersey for the nearest outlet. Along the way the pair are menaced by a gang of extreme-sports punks, a rabid raccoon and a computer-generated cougar they use as a getaway horse. Surviving one mishap after another, the pair finally arrive by hang-glider at their junk food shrine. The chemistry between the two is as old as Abbott and Costello (Holden).

''I, ROBOT,'' starring Will Smith and Bridget Moynahan. Directed by Alex Proyas (PG-13, 110 minutes). Once again machines are threatening to take over the world, and once again they have developed feelings, which poses the usual conundrums of sci-fi philosophy. ''Suggested by'' Isaac Asimov's classic book of short stories, this sleek, hectic thriller engages some interesting ideas on its way to an overblown and incoherent ending. Mr. Smith, in weary action-movie mode, plays Del Spooner, a homicide detective in 2035 Chicago investigating the death of an old friend. Spooner is a confirmed robot-hater, and as he confronts his bigotry the movie develops a clever, if obvious, racial subtext. With the help of Susan Calvin (Ms. Moynahan), a concerned scientist, and a soulful machine named Sonny, Spooner contends with an apparent corporate conspiracy aimed at usurping human control of everything. ''You're the dumbest smart person I've ever met,'' Spooner says to Dr. Calvin at one point, and for a dumb movie, ''I, Robot'' turns out to be pretty smart (Scott).

''LITTLE BLACK BOOK,'' starring Brittany Murphy and Holly Hunter. Directed by Nick Hurran (PG-13, 97 minutes). With Ms. Murphy starring as an ambitious associate producer of a trashy television talk show, this movie aspires to be a dewy-eyed self-help fable for ambitious young women folded into a mean-spirited satire of Jerry Springer-style reality programming. Offering few laughs and a climactic scene of breathtaking cruelty, the plot-heavy film draws you against your will into its malignant force field. Almost from the beginning, its sugary and rancid strains work against each other. To put it another way, ''Little Black Book'' would like to be a wised-up but still starry-eyed ''Working Girl'' and a more acerbic ''Broadcast News.'' In trying to be both things at once, it can't hold a candle to either forerunner. Batting her large, vacant eyes and sucking her lower lip into a pout, Ms. Murphy suggests a dumbed-down Meg Ryan with a gloss of Melanie Griffith (Holden).

* ''THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE,'' starring Denzel Washington, Meryl Streep and Liev Schreiber. Directed by Jonathan Demme (R, 130 minutes). Mr. Demme, updating John Frankenheimer's classic exercise in cold war liberal paranoia, wisely treats the original as a touchstone rather than a template, and his movie, in spite of some narrative flaws, stands on its own as a witty, anxious thriller for a new age of political uncertainty. Mr. Washington plays Ben Marco, a Persian Gulf war veteran haunted by nightmares who tries at once to hold onto his sanity and unravel a conspiracy that reaches the highest levels of corporate and political power. Mr. Schreiber is a young congressman propelled toward the vice presidency by his monstrous mother, played with ice-chomping glee by Ms. Streep. The convolutions of the story are less important than the vigor of the performances, and the movie wears its attenuated political relevance lightly. Which may be a good thing, since this ''Candidate'' is, in the end, a breathless and intricate thriller about the continuing need for campaign finance reform (Scott).

* ''MARIA FULL OF GRACE,'' starring Catalina Sandino Moreno and Yenny Paola Vega. Written and directed by Joshua Marston (R, 101 minutes; in Spanish, with English subtitles). It's painfully understandable why the 17-year-old title character of this gripping Colombian film would risk her freedom and even her life to be a drug mule. The movie follows the desperate plunge of Maria (Ms. Sandino) from a dead-end job as an assembly-line worker in a Colombian flower factory into the drug-smuggling underworld. Her dangerous undertaking is her last resort when she finds herself unemployed and pregnant. Before the story zeroes in on the harrowing details of drug running and its dangers, it details Maria's hopelessly circumscribed life in a rural village. If her story is a template for countless others like it, what keeps your heart in your throat is Maria herself. In a performance that feels more lived in than acted, Ms. Sandino's Maria is an attractive, smart, spirited young woman who faces the challenge of fending for herself with a fierce determination and ingenuity that compromise but never undermine her essential decency and morality. The movie sustains a documentary authenticity that is as astonishing as it is off-handed. Even while keeping you on the edge of your seat, it never sacrifices a calm, clear-sighted humanity for the sake of melodrama (Holden).

* ''METALLICA: SOME KIND OF MONSTER,'' directed by Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky (not rated, 139 minutes). Mr. Berlinger and Mr. Sinofsky, who began filming the mighty heavy-metal band Metallica in early 2001, turn what might have been a conventional behind-the-scenes rockumentary into a riveting, intricate pyschodrama. After nearly 20 years together, Metallica was in something of a funk, and the band members hired Phil Towle, a therapist, to help them through their artistic and interpersonal struggles. At its core, ''Some Kind of Monster'' is the portrait of a marriage: the angry, sustaining partnership between James Hetfield, the lead singer, and Lars Ulrich, the drummer, who founded the band as teenagers and must figure out how to keep it going now that they're in their 40's (Scott).

''OPEN WATER,'' starring Blanchard Ryan and Daniel Travis. Written and directed by Chris Kentis (R, 79 minutes). In this minimalist, digital video thriller, a tourist couple spend their vacation trying not to be eaten by sharks. ''I wanted to go skiing,'' complains Susan (Ms. Ryan), and you can hardly blame her. She and Daniel (Mr. Travis), her boyfriend, out for a morning of scuba diving, have been left behind by the charter boat, and they bob up and down, fighting panic, exhaustion and each other in a desperate struggle to survive. The film, simply and efficiently shot without special effects or well-known actors, evokes some deep and primal fears, but it is ultimately too small, too under-dramatized, to provoke anything more intense than squirming discomfort. Susan and Daniel are so bland that they could be anybody, which is the problem, and your sympathy for them is fleeting, as if you had encountered them in a short, grisly item on the local evening news (Scott).

''THE PRINCESS DIARIES 2: ROYAL ENGAGEMENT,'' starring Anne Hathaway, Chris Pine and Heather Matarazzo. Directed by Garry Marshall (G, 120 minutes). In the cardboard kingdom of Genovia, the setting for this new feature-length fairy tale, the streets are as scrubbed of dirt and personality as a Disney theme park. A mythic European country where everyone speaks accented English by way of Britain, France and Brooklyn, Genovia is the adopted home of Princess Mia (Ms. Hathaway), a onetime San Francisco teenager-turned-Old-World pretender. Unlike Pinocchio, Mia doesn't hang her wish on just any star; she hangs it on the movie-made promise that every girl can find her inner princess and, like, you know, rule. Directed by Mr. Marshall, who's been selling wish-fulfillment fantasies for years, most notably in ''Pretty Woman,'' and written by Shonda Rhimes, ''The Princess Diaries 2'' combines a classic storybook scenario, in which the former ugly duckling refines her swan standing, with the usual self-help uplift. This time around, the princess who would be queen learns what the rest of us know already: happy movie endings generally come to those women who eat their independence and, in time, a wedding cake, too (Dargis).

''SHE HATE ME,'' starring Anthony Mackie and Kerry Washington. Directed by Spike Lee (R, 138 minutes). In his flailingly angry new comedy, Mr. Lee carries his political exasperation beyond outrage into chaos. The carelessness with which the director hurls his feelings about hot-button topics onto the screen is the filmmaking equivalent of last-ditch marketing: grab everything in sight, roll it up into a big, messy mud ball and hurl it against the wall, hoping that something sticks. Lashing out in all directions, the director addresses white-collar crime, the Bush administration, AIDS in Africa, the Mafia, Watergate, sex and reproduction, lesbianism and the meaning of family in a disoriented rant that lurches from one subject to the next with little to tie it together. A sex farce one minute, a crude political skit the next, an imitation ''Mr. Smith Goes to Washington'' harangue the next, ''She Hate Me'' can't maintain its focus long enough to say anything fresh. The boilerplate polemics mouthed by stick-figure characters sound like the beery 3 a.m. debates of a college bull session (Holden).

''THE VILLAGE,'' starring Bryce Dallas Howard, Joaquin Phoenix and Adrien Brody. Written and directed by M. Night Shyamalan (PG-13, 120 minutes). Mr. Shyamalan remains our leading cinematic rug-puller, but the carpet grows ever more threadbare. This time, he populates a preindustrial Pennsylvania village with an impressive cast of elders and youngsters, who almost never use contractions and who live in fear of some scary creatures in the surrounding woods. As ever, Mr. Shyamalan uses the classic techniques of movie suspense (and James Newton Howard's sinister score) to conjure an atmosphere of mystery and dread, which vanishes even before the big plot twist sends the picture spinning into silly, pretentious allegory. Don't worry, I won't spoil the surprise. It spoils itself (Scott).

''WE DON'T LIVE HERE ANYMORE,'' starring Mark Ruffalo, Laura Dern, Peter Krause and Naomi Watts. Directed by John Curran (R, 103 minutes). Meticulously adapted from two novellas by Andre Dubus, Mr. Curran's film is a somber anatomy of two marriages in crisis. Mr. Ruffalo's Jack, who teaches literature at a small college, is having an affair with Edith (Ms. Watts), the wife of his best friend, a writer named Hank (Mr. Krause), who has a fling with Jack's wife, Terry (Ms. Dern). It is all a bit too symmetrical -- a bedroom farce without a sense of humor -- and the characters float free of any credible social context. But this dark, cracked crystal of a film nonetheless works as a kind of marital film noir, with the threat of emotional violence hanging over every scene. The actors give brave, unshowy performances, especially Ms. Dern, who lets go of any trace of actorly vanity, and Mr. Ruffalo, who portrays male weakness with an honesty rarely seen in American movies (Scott).


GRAPHIC: Photos: No end to human weakness: Naomi Watts and Mark Ruffalo in ''We Don't Live Here Anymore.'' (Photo by Kimberly French/Warner Independent Pictures)
 Mr. Right wanted (regal looks a plus): Anne Hathaway and Chris Pine in ''The Princess Diaries 2.'' (Photo by Ron Batzdorff/Disney Enterprises Inc.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ESPIONAGE (83%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); COLD WAR (70%); TERRORISM (60%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%)

PERSON: MATT DAMON (58%); ANNE HATHAWAY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); EARTH (72%) UNITED STATES (88%); FRANCE (69%); ANTARCTICA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



459 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMPANY BRIEFS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 145 words

 BODY:

WELLS' DAIRY INC., Le Mars, Iowa, the maker of Blue Bunny brand ice cream products, said it acquired the FrozFruit and Chill Ice brands of frozen treats from Fruit-Ices Corp., New York. Terms were not disclosed.

WEINGARTEN REALTY INVESTORS, Houston, an owner of shopping centers and industrial properties in the Southern United States, said it bought three retail centers in Texas for $59.1 million.

NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP., Los Angeles, the largest supplier of unmanned spy planes to the United States military, received a $1.04 billion award to develop an unmanned bomber, the Defense Department said.

CITIGROUP INC., New York, the world's biggest bank, agreed to buy a $10 billion mortgage portfolio from Hibernia Corp., New Orleans, a bank holding company, amid expectations rising interest rates will increase the value of servicing the loans. Terms were not disclosed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FROZEN FOODS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); FROZEN DESSERTS (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (88%); HOLDING COMPANIES (88%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (87%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); RETAIL PROPERTY (87%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (86%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (71%); RETAILERS (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (68%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (68%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WELLS' DAIRY INC (93%); CITIGROUP INC (84%); WEINGARTEN REALTY INVESTORS (72%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (72%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (70%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%); WRI (NYSE) (72%); NOC (NYSE) (72%); COF (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424430 DAIRY PRODUCT (EXCEPT DRIED OR CANNED) MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (93%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (72%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (72%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (72%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (72%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (72%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (72%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%) IOWA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (90%); SOUTHEAST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



460 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: California Deal Authorizes Huge Casino Near Oakland

BYLINE: By DEAN E. MURPHY; Carolyn Marshall in San Francisco and Nick Madigan in Los Angeles contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 19 

 BODY:
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger announced a deal on Thursday with an Indian tribe that authorizes construction of the largest urban casino in the country on the site of a former bowling alley across the San Francisco Bay from here.
 The agreement, with the Lytton Band of Pomo Indians, will create a casino bigger than any in Las Vegas or Atlantic City along a major commuter freeway in San Pablo, an economically struggling town about 15 miles north of Oakland. 
 The casino, if approved by the State Legislature and the Department of the Interior, could have as many as 5,000 slot machines, making it the third largest in the United States. Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun, both in rural Connecticut, have 6,600 and 6,200 slots. 
 The compact with the Lytton Band was the largest of five gaming agreements announced by Mr. Schwarzenegger, which together will provide about $200 million in state revenues annually, according to estimates by the governor's office. The San Pablo casino alone is projected to generate more than $150 million.
 ''I am very pleased with the financial contribution these tribes have agreed to make to our state and with the many protections for patrons, workers, the environment and local communities we were able to include in the agreements,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said in a statement.
 But critics of the compact, including some local officials, said the proposed casino was much bigger than they had expected and expressed outrage that the governor would agree to such a deal along one of the state's most congested urban corridors. 
 Assemblywoman Loni Hancock, a Democrat from Berkeley whose district includes San Pablo, said the governor should expect a tough fight in the Legislature, which will consider the compacts before adjourning next week. Even if the compacts passed the Legislature, they could run into trouble in November if gaming-related ballot measures are approved by voters.
 ''It would be within two blocks of a major highway that is bumper to bumper like a parking lot for a large part of every day already,'' Ms. Hancock said. ''It is no accident that these proposals come in communities with very low-income people living in them. I see this as an attempt to balance the state budget on the back and expense of these desperately poor communities who see themselves as having few other options.''
 Barbara L. Vigil, the San Pablo mayor, said a 1999 agreement between the town and the Lytton Band envisioned a much smaller operation, perhaps 1,000 slot machines or so. The tribe, which has fewer than 300 members, currently operates a card club on its nine-acre property in San Pablo.
 ''This is overwhelming,'' Ms. Vigil said. ''We envisioned some slots, bingo and card games.''
 Mr. Schwarzenegger strongly criticized the influence of Indian gambling interests in Sacramento in his campaign last year against Gov. Gray Davis, expressing particular opposition to gambling in metropolitan areas. But with the state in financial crisis and the Lytton Band entitled under federal law to build a casino in San Pablo, Mr. Schwarzenegger decided to use the negotiations to extract money from the gambling operations to increase state coffers and ensure that negative consequences, like traffic problems, could be addressed, state officials said.
 The financial benefits to the state from the Lytton Band compact go well beyond compacts with several other tribes that Mr. Schwarzenegger renegotiated in June. Under the Lytton Band deal, the state will receive 25 percent of the casino's profits from its slot machines and some card games. Daniel Kolkey, the lead negotiator for the governor, said the Lytton Band compact required payments to the state that are greater than those required of tribal casinos in Connecticut. During the recall campaign last year, Mr. Schwarzenegger pointed to the agreements in Connecticut as an example of the deals he would seek as governor.
 Mr. Kolkey defended the San Pablo project's size, suggesting that any big casino -- even one with 2,000 or 3,000 slot machines -- would pose similar problems.
 ''By allowing the casino that would meet the market demand, the governor has enabled the state to earn the money that will mitigate all of the impacts,'' Mr. Kolkey said at a news conference.
 In a statement, Margie Mejia, chairwoman of the Lytton Band, said the compact would have broad economic benefits for San Pablo and the Bay Area. The casino is expected to generate about 2,000 jobs, all of which would be unionized. Under the deal, the tribe receives a guarantee that no other casinos will be allowed by the state within a 35-mile radius.
 Ms. Mejia said the deal was in keeping with a ballot measure, approved by state voters in 2000, that legalized Indian casino gambling, and a federal law that same year that included a provision, pushed by Representative George Miller, a Democrat from nearby Martinez, allowing the tribe to claim the San Pablo land for gambling, even though its ancestral presence was to the north in Sonoma County.
 But an aide to Mr. Miller said in a telephone interview that that compact approved by Mr. Schwarzenegger was not what the congressman had in mind in 2000. The aide, Daniel Weiss, Mr. Miller's chief of staff, said the casino was much bigger than anyone had talked about at the time.
 ''Our concern is that the governor is using casino gaming to solve his budget problems,'' Mr. Weiss said. ''In doing so, he is changing the landscape of gaming in California by increasing the size of casinos dramatically.''
 Dr. Alan Meister, an economist with Analysis Group, which produces an annual study on Indian gaming, said the governor was required by federal law to negotiate with the Lytton Band, but there was no doubt that he went beyond the bare minimum.
 ''It is all being driven by the state's budget problems,'' Dr. Meister said. ''When they weren't having budget problems, they weren't trying to get money from the tribes.''
 In another decision affecting gambling in California, the state's Gambling Control Commission voted Thursday to give a casino license to Irving I. Moskowitz, a wealthy, reclusive doctor who provides money to militant Israeli settlers who build developments on Arab land that Israel occupied during the 1967 war. 
 The vote came despite a six-year campaign by a coalition of opponents who objected not only to Mr. Moskowitz's ties to the settlers but to the power they say he wields in Hawaiian Gardens, a small, poor town in eastern Los Angeles County where his casino has been operating under a temporary permit since 1998.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); GAMING (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); CASINOS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); MAYORS (76%); CARD GAMES (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); REFERENDUMS (67%); BALLOTS (62%); BOWLING CENTERS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (88%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



461 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Built for Speed, And Local Pride; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Track Stadium Emerges On Randalls Island

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
Today, as the Olympic high jump, hammer throw and heptathlon competitions begin, a new, never-used, spike-resistant, brick-red Olympic track is good to go. Scoring officials' tables? Completed. Twenty-two rows of sculptured blue polyethylene stadium seats? Waiting to be filled. And banks of 2,000-watt floodlights are ready to illuminate sprinters as they explode off the blocks at night. 
 No, not at the world-renowned 72,000-seat Athens Olympic Stadium, but on that new running track at Randalls Island that, for months now, has been so intriguing to motorists across the East River on the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive.
 The $45 million, 4,754-seat Icahn Stadium, named after its principal private donor, the investor Carl Icahn, is now 85 percent built. And the already completed $1 million running surface is essentially the same as the one in the great stadium in Greece. It was installed directly after the Athens track by the Mondo company of Alba, Italy, the premier Olympic surfacer. 
 ''Randalls will definitely be a fast track,'' said Luca Reinaudo, the company's construction director. A good thing, because after the stadium itself is completed in November, its creators hope it will be a future site for Olympic trials in track and field, after its expected Class 1 certification by the International Association of Athletics Federations in Geneva. 
 The city's parks commissioner, Adrian Benepe, said that to many track mavens, the completion of the stadium ''will be a watershed moment for the reinvigoration of track and field in New York City.'' 
 ''I think it will inspire a whole generation of runners, just to know that they can compete on the same track as Olympic runners,'' he added. ''Symbolically, it says that city athletes deserve a world-class facility, instead of a disgusting falling-apart track with crummy portable bathrooms and no place to change in.'' 
 The commissioner was referring to the old runners' refuge on Randalls Island, the unlamented Downing Stadium -- torn down in 2002 -- where he once ran as a sprinter in his student days at Horace Mann. 
 Originally called the Municipal Stadium in 1936, it was renamed in honor of John J. Downing, a Parks Department director of recreation, in 1955. 
 Completed under the auspices of the Works Progress Administration, the 22,000-seat stadium was ready just in time for the American Olympic trials on July 11, 1936, presided over by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Robert Moses. (Jesse Owens won the 100-yard dash there and went on to compete in the Berlin Olympics.) And the Women's Olympic Team Trials were held there in 1964. 
 While the stadium showcased other events -- from Duke Ellington concerts in the 1930's to the New York Cosmos soccer team and its star Pele in the 1970's -- sentimental New Yorkers recall their ''Chariots of Fire'' relationship with the old cinder-track stadium, where generations of children were cheered by their parents during more than a half-century of competitions. 
 The increasingly decrepit stadium fell into dire disrepair during the fiscal crisis in the 1970's, when drug addicts stole the copper piping and anything that wasn't nailed down, Mr. Benepe said. Despite a 1980's renovation, he said, the track surface was ''in dismal shape'' toward the end.
 Karen Cohen, the founder and president of the 12-year-old Randalls Island Sports Foundation, a public-private partnership with the Parks Department that is modeled on the Central Park Conservancy, said that, in recent years, ''New York hasn't had nearly the prominence in track and field that it should have, given the size of our city.'' 
 The foundation built the new stadium within the footprint of the former one as part of its mission to develop the island's recreational facilities and maintain its 480-acre city park. 
 Aimee Boden, the executive director of the foundation, promised that the new stadium ''will be held sacred for track and field.'' A master plan calls for the construction of a separate performing-arts amphitheater, as well as a new soccer field, a $120-million water park and a new tennis center with a bleacher stadium and 20 new courts. 
 The track stadium is already paid for, including $22.6 million in city money; the rest of the $45 million was raised by the foundation from private sources. Mr. Icahn's $10 million donation permitted the construction and installation of the stadium's two cable-supported, 170-foot light towers, which will provide the illumination for evening meets and also support the stadium's roof. 
 The drainage and the asphalt-and-gravel subsurface preparation of the track cost $2 million; its high-tolerance installation, verified by on-site measurement, does not deviate from level more than an eighth of an inch over 10 feet of track.
 Cutting-edge competitive requirements drove the efforts of the stadium's designer, Hillier Group Architecture in Manhattan. The laws of physics dictate that runners go faster on tracks that are more circular, rather than elongated hippodrome-like tracks, where runners lose momentum in tight turns. The new track's large radius -- 120 feet -- was designed to permit runners to make wide, fast turns. 
 ''Wait till we begin piling up some record-breaking performances in the stadium,'' said Dr. Norbert W. Sander, an internist who is president of the Armory Foundation, which runs the New Balance Track and Field Center at 168th Street and Fort Washington Avenue in Manhattan. 
 The armory was renovated and given its own state-of-the-art indoor Mondo track after Dr. Sander mounted a $25 million effort to refurbish it, turning it into the busiest track-and-field facility in the country, with 120 meets a year. The Armory Foundation staff will oversee the Randalls track-and-field program schedules and coordinate seasons between the indoor and outdoor tracks.
 At Icahn Stadium, there are lockers, training rooms and shower facilities for up to 1,000 visiting athletes; also available are first aid and treatment rooms, a lecture hall, equipment-storage facilities and even a ''doping suite,'' or drug-testing room. 
 But the lighting may prove to be revolutionary. Dr. Sander said that the city's torrid summer days meant that the outdoor track's season was limited. The lights, he said, ''will be perfect for track meets at night, and will enable us to host international track meets as well.'' 
 Indeed, the Sports Foundation and Dr. Sander are now going after major track meets, including the N.C.A.A. regional championships and the 2008 Olympic trials. 
 While the running track itself will be preserved for competition and not open to the public, Mr. Icahn hopes that schools -- public, private and parochial -- will make constant use of the facility. ''The city doesn't do enough to help our kids -- the poor ones especially -- get away from the television set,'' Mr. Icahn said. ''Every kid deserves the right to exercise and to compete.''
 Since construction began in January 2003, more than 1,000 laborers from different trades have worked on the stadium. Hard hats have been putting the finishing touches on interiors, and have prepared the grass infield that will be used for the shot-put, pole vault, high jump, discus and javelin. ''The I.A.A.F. won't approve artificial turf,'' said Rebecca Darr, the stadium's construction manager for the city's Economic Development Corporation. 
 For the workers, achieving the Olympic-level tolerances has been a challenge. ''There has been nothing average about this job,'' said Vinnie Perrone, a carpenter who was been on the site for four months. 
 Is he worried about the judgment of future Olympians? ''Bring 'em on,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The $45 million, 4,754-seat Icahn Stadium is 85 percent built. Light towers will provide illumination for evening meets. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Matt Cady, 26, is laying down part of the running track at Icahn Stadium on Randalls Island. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); TRACK & FIELD (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); RUNNING (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); RIVERS (77%); SOCCER (67%) Olympic Games; Stadiums and Arenas; Icahn Stadium (NYC); Track and Field ; Olympic Games (2012)

ORGANIZATION: International Assn of Athletic Federations

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (71%) Glenn Collins; Adrian (Comr) Benepe; Carl C Icahn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATHENS, GREECE (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%) New York City; Randalls Island (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



462 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3396 words

HEADLINE: Friendly Fire: The Birth of an Attack on Kerry

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE and JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
After weeks of taking fire over veterans' accusations that he had lied about his Vietnam service record to win medals and build a political career, Senator John Kerry shot back yesterday, calling those statements categorically false and branding the people behind them tools of the Bush campaign.
 His decision to take on the group directly was a measure of how the group that calls itself Swift Boat Veterans for Truth has catapulted itself to the forefront of the presidential campaign. It has advanced its cause in a book, in a television advertisement and on cable news and talk radio shows, all in an attempt to discredit Mr. Kerry's war record, a pillar of his campaign. 
 How the group came into existence is a story of how veterans with longstanding anger about Mr. Kerry's antiwar statements in the early 1970's allied themselves with Texas Republicans. 
 Mr. Kerry called them ''a front for the Bush campaign'' -- a charge the campaign denied. [Article, Page A18.] 
 A series of interviews and a review of documents show a web of connections to the Bush family, high-profile Texas political figures and President Bush's chief political aide, Karl Rove. 
 Records show that the group received the bulk of its initial financing from two men with ties to the president and his family -- one a longtime political associate of Mr. Rove's, the other a trustee of the foundation for Mr. Bush's father's presidential library. A Texas publicist who once helped prepare Mr. Bush's father for his debate when he was running for vice president provided them with strategic advice. And the group's television commercial was produced by the same team that made the devastating ad mocking Michael S. Dukakis in an oversized tank helmet when he and Mr. Bush's father faced off in the 1988 presidential election.
 The strategy the veterans devised would ultimately paint John Kerry the war hero as John Kerry the ''baby killer'' and the fabricator of the events that resulted in his war medals. But on close examination, the accounts of Swift Boat Veterans for Truth' prove to be riddled with inconsistencies. In many cases, material offered as proof by these veterans is undercut by official Navy records and the men's own statements. 
 Several of those now declaring Mr. Kerry ''unfit'' had lavished praise on him, some as recently as last year. 
 In an unpublished interview in March 2003 with Mr. Kerry's authorized biographer, Douglas Brinkley, provided by Mr. Brinkley to The New York Times, Roy F. Hoffmann, a retired rear admiral and a leader of the group, allowed that he had disagreed with Mr. Kerry's antiwar positions but said, ''I am not going to say anything negative about him.'' He added, ''He's a good man.'' 
 In a profile of the candidate that ran in The Boston Globe in June 2003, Mr. Hoffmann approvingly recalled the actions that led to Mr. Kerry's Silver Star: ''It took guts, and I admire that.'' 
 George Elliott, one of the Vietnam veterans in the group, flew from his home in Delaware to Boston in 1996 to stand up for Mr. Kerry during a tough re-election fight, declaring at a news conference that the action that won Mr. Kerry a Silver Star was ''an act of courage.'' At that same event, Adrian L. Lonsdale, another Vietnam veteran now speaking out against Mr. Kerry, supported him with a statement about the ''bravado and courage of the young officers that ran the Swift boats.''
 ''Senator Kerry was no exception,'' Mr. Lonsdale told the reporters and cameras assembled at the Charlestown Navy Yard. ''He was among the finest of those Swift boat drivers.''
 Those comments echoed the official record. In an evaluation of Mr. Kerry in 1969, Mr. Elliott, who was one of his commanders, ranked him as ''not exceeded'' in 11 categories, including moral courage, judgment and decisiveness, and ''one of the top few'' -- the second-highest distinction -- in the remaining five. In written comments, he called Mr. Kerry ''unsurpassed,'' ''beyond reproach'' and ''the acknowledged leader in his peer group.'' 

The Admiral Calls
 It all began last winter, as Mr. Kerry was wrapping up the Democratic nomination. Mr. Lonsdale received a call at his Massachusetts home from his old commander in Vietnam, Mr. Hoffmann, asking if he had seen the new biography of the man who would be president.
 Mr. Hoffmann had commanded the Swift boats during the war from a base in Cam Ranh Bay and advocated a search-and-destroy campaign against the Vietcong -- the kind of tactic Mr. Kerry criticized when he was a spokesman for Vietnam Veterans Against the War in 1971. Shortly after leaving the Navy in 1978, he was issued a letter of censure for exercising undue influence on cases in the military justice system.
 Both Mr. Hoffmann and Mr. Lonsdale had publicly lauded Mr. Kerry in the past. But the book, Mr. Brinkley's ''Tour of Duty,'' while it burnished Mr. Kerry's reputation, portrayed the two men as reckless leaders whose military approach had led to the deaths of countless sailors and innocent civilians. Several Swift boat veterans compared Mr. Hoffmann to the bloodthirsty colonel in the film ''Apocalypse Now'' -- the one who loves the smell of Napalm in the morning.
 The two men were determined to set the record, as they saw it, straight.
 ''It was the admiral who started it and got the rest of us into it,'' Mr. Lonsdale said.
 Mr. Hoffmann's phone calls led them to Texas and to John E. O'Neill, who at one point commanded the same Swift boat in Vietnam, and whose mission against him dated to 1971, when he had been recruited by the Nixon administration to debate Mr. Kerry on ''The Dick Cavett Show.''
 Mr. O'Neill, who pressed his charges against Mr. Kerry in numerous television appearances Thursday, had spent the 33 years since he debated Mr. Kerry building a successful law practice in Houston, intermingling with some of the state's most powerful Republicans and building an impressive client list. Among the companies he represented was Falcon Seaboard, the energy firm founded by the current lieutenant governor of Texas, David Dewhurst, a central player in the Texas redistricting plan that has positioned state Republicans to win more Congressional seats this fall. 
 Mr. O'Neill said during one of several interviews that he had come to know two of his biggest donors, Harlan Crow and Bob J. Perry, through longtime social and business contacts. 
 Mr. Perry, who has given $200,000 to the group, is the top donor to Republicans in the state, according to Texans for Public Justice, a nonpartisan group that tracks political donations. He donated $46,000 to President Bush's campaigns for governor in 1994 and 1998. In the 2002 election, the group said, he donated nearly $4 million to Texas candidates and political committees. 
 Mr. Rove, Mr. Bush's top political aide, recently said through a spokeswoman that he and Mr. Perry were longtime friends, though he said they had not spoken for at least a year. Mr. Rove and Mr. Perry have been associates since at least 1986, when they both worked on the gubernatorial campaign of Bill Clements. 
 Mr. O'Neill said he had known Mr. Perry for 30 years. ''I've represented many of his friends,'' Mr. O'Neill said. Mr. Perry did not respond to requests for comment.
 Mr. O'Neill said he had also known Mr. Crow for 30 years, through mutual friends. Mr. Crow, the seventh-largest donor to Republicans in the state according to the Texans for Public Justice, has donated nowhere near as much money as Mr. Perry to the Swift boat group. His family owns one of the largest diversified commercial real estate companies in the nation, the Trammell Crow Company, and has given money to Mr. Bush and his father throughout their careers. He is listed as a trustee of the George Bush Presidential Library Foundation. 
 One of his law partners, Margaret Wilson, became Mr. Bush's general counsel when he was governor of Texas and followed him to the White House as deputy counsel for the Department of Commerce, according to her biography on the law firm's Web site.
 Another partner, Tex Lezar, ran on the Republican ticket with Mr. Bush in 1994, as lieutenant governor. They were two years apart at Yale, and Mr. Lezar worked for the attorney general's office in the Reagan administration. Mr. Lezar, who died last year, was married to Merrie Spaeth, a powerful public relations executive who has helped coordinate the efforts of Swift Boat Veterans for Truth.
 In 2000, Ms. Spaeth was spokeswoman for a group that ran $2 million worth of ads attacking Senator John McCain's environmental record and lauding Mr. Bush's in crucial states during their fierce primary battle. The group, calling itself Republicans for Clean Air, was founded by a prominent Texas supporter of Mr. Bush, Sam Wyly.
 Ms. Spaeth had been a communications official in the Reagan White House, where the president's aides had enough confidence in her to invite her to help prepare George Bush for his vice-presidential debate in 1984. She says she is also a close friend of Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas, a client of Mr. Rove's. Ms. Spaeth said in an interview that the one time she had ever spoken to Mr. Rove was when Ms. Hutchison was running for the Texas treasurer's office in 1990.
 When asked if she had ever visited the White House during Mr. Bush's tenure, Ms. Spaeth initially said that she had been there only once, in 2002, when Kenneth Starr gave her a personal tour. But this week Ms. Spaeth acknowledged that she had spent an hour in the Old Executive Office Building, part of the White House complex, in the spring of 2003, giving Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser, Stephen Friedman, public speaking advice. Asked if it was possible that she had worked with other administration officials, Ms. Spaeth said, ''The answer is 'no,' unless you refresh my memory.''
 ''Is the White House directing this?'' Ms. Spaeth said of the organization. ''Absolutely not.''
 Another participant is the political advertising agency that made the group's television commercial: Stevens Reed Curcio & Potholm, based in Alexandria, Va. The agency worked for Senator McCain in 2000 and for Mr. Bush's father in 1988, when it created the ''tank'' advertisement mocking Mr. Dukakis. A spokesman for the Swift boat veterans said the organization decided to hire the agency after a member saw one of its partners speaking on television.
 About 10 veterans met in Ms. Spaeth's office in Dallas in April to share outrage and plot their campaign against Mr. Kerry, she and others said. Mr. Lonsdale, who did not attend, said the meeting had been planned as ''an indoctrination session.''
 What might have been loose impressions about Mr. Kerry began to harden.
 ''That was an awakening experience,'' Ms. Spaeth said. ''Not just for me, but for many of them who had not heard each other's stories.''
 The group decided to hire a private investigator to investigate Mr. Brinkley's account of the war -- to find ''some neutral way of actually questioning people involved in these incidents,'' Mr. O'Neill said.
 But the investigator's questions did not seem neutral to some. 
 Patrick Runyon, who served on a mission with Mr. Kerry, said he initially thought the caller was from a pro-Kerry group, and happily gave a statement about the night Mr. Kerry won his first Purple Heart. The investigator said he would send it to him by e-mail for his signature. Mr. Runyon said the edited version was stripped of all references to enemy combat, making it look like just another night in the Mekong Delta.
 ''It made it sound like I didn't believe we got any returned fire,'' he said. ''He made it sound like it was a normal operation. It was the scariest night of my life.'' 
 By May, the group had the money that Mr. O'Neill had collected as well as additional veterans rallied by Mr. O'Neill, Mr. Hoffmann and others. The expanded group gathered in Washington to record the veterans' stories for a television commercial. 
 Each veteran's statement was written down as an affidavit and sent to him to sign and have notarized. But the validity of those affidavits soon came into question.
 Mr. Elliott, who recommended Mr. Kerry for the Silver Star, had signed one affidavit saying Mr. Kerry ''was not forthright'' in the statements that had led to the award. Two weeks ago, The Boston Globe quoted him as saying that he felt he should not have signed the affidavit. He then signed a second affidavit that reaffirmed his first, which the Swift Boat Veterans gave to reporters. Mr. Elliott has refused to speak publicly since then.

The Questions
 The book outlining the veterans' charges, ''Unfit for Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against Kerry,'' has also come under fire. It is published by Regnery, a conservative company that has published numerous books critical of Democrats, and written by Mr. O'Neill and Jerome R. Corsi, who was identified on the book jacket as a Harvard Ph.D. and the author of many books and articles. But Mr. Corsi also acknowledged that he has been a contributor of anti-Catholic, anti-Muslim and anti-Semitic comments to a right-wing Web site. He said he regretted those comments.
 The group's arguments have foundered on other contradictions. In the television commercial, Dr. Louis Letson looks into the camera and declares, ''I know John Kerry is lying about his first Purple Heart because I treated him for that injury.'' Dr. Letson does not dispute the wound -- a piece of shrapnel above Mr. Kerry's left elbow -- but he and others in the group argue that it was minor and self-inflicted.
 Yet Dr. Letson's name does not appear on any of the medical records for Mr. Kerry. Under ''person administering treatment'' for the injury, the form is signed by a medic, J.C. Carreon, who died several years ago. Dr. Letson said it was common for medics to treat sailors with the kind of injury that Mr. Kerry had and to fill out paperwork when doctors did the treatment. 
 Asked in an interview if there was any way to confirm he had treated Mr. Kerry, Dr. Letson said, ''I guess you'll have to take my word for it.'' 
 The group also offers the account of William L. Schachte Jr., a retired rear admiral who says in the book that he had been on the small skimmer on which Mr. Kerry was injured that night in December 1968. He contends that Mr. Kerry wounded himself while firing a grenade.
 But the two other men who acknowledged that they had been with Mr. Kerry, Bill Zaladonis and Mr. Runyon, say they cannot recall a third crew member. ''Me and Bill aren't the smartest, but we can count to three,'' Mr. Runyon said in an interview. And even Dr. Letson said he had not recalled Mr. Schachte until he had a conversation with another veteran earlier this year and received a subsequent phone call from Mr. Schachte himself. 
 Mr. Schachte did not return a telephone call, and a spokesman for the group said he would not comment.
 The Silver Star was awarded after Mr. Kerry's boat came under heavy fire from shore during a mission in February 1969. According to Navy records, he turned the boat to charge the Vietcong position. An enemy solider sprang from the shore about 10 feet in front of the boat. Mr. Kerry leaped onto the shore, chased the soldier behind a small hut and killed him, seizing a B-40 rocket launcher with a round in the chamber.
 Swift Boat Veterans for Truth describes the man Mr. Kerry killed as a solitary wounded teenager ''in a loincloth,'' who may or may not have been armed. They say the charge to the beach was planned the night before and, citing a report from one crew member on a different boat, maintain that the sailors even schemed about who would win which medals. 
 The group says Mr. Kerry himself wrote the reports that led to the medal. But Mr. Elliott and Mr. Lonsdale, who handled reports going up the line for recognition, have previously said that a medal would be awarded only if there was corroboration from others and that they had thoroughly corroborated the accounts.
 ''Witness reports were reviewed; battle reports were reviewed,'' Mr. Lonsdale said at the 1996 news conference, adding, ''It was a very complete and carefully orchestrated procedure.'' In his statements Mr. Elliott described the action that day as ''intense'' and ''unusual.'' 
 According to a citation for Mr. Kerry's Bronze Star, a group of Swift boats was leaving the Bay Hap river when several mines detonated, disabling one boat and knocking a soldier named Jim Rassmann overboard. In a hail of enemy fire, Mr. Kerry turned the boat around to pull Mr. Rassmann from the water. 
 Mr. Rassmann, who says he is a Republican, reappeared during the Iowa caucuses this year to tell his story and support Mr. Kerry, and is widely credited with helping to revive Mr. Kerry's campaign. 
 But the group says that there was no enemy fire, and that while Mr. Kerry did rescue Mr. Rassmann, the action was what anyone would have expected of a sailor, and hardly heroic. Asked why Mr. Rassmann recalled that he was dodging enemy bullets, a member of the group, Jack Chenoweth, said, ''He's lying.'' 
 ''If that's what we have to say,'' Mr. Chenoweth added, ''that's how it was.'' 
 Several veterans insist that Mr. Kerry wrote his own reports, pointing to the initials K.J.W. on one of the reports and saying they are Mr. Kerry's. ''What's the W for, I cannot answer,'' said Larry Thurlow, who said his boat was 50 to 60 yards from Mr. Kerry's. Mr. Kerry's middle initial is F, and a Navy official said the initials refer to the person who had received the report at headquarters, not the author.
 A damage report to Mr. Thurlow's boat shows that it received three bullet holes, suggesting enemy fire, and later intelligence reports indicate that one Vietcong was killed in action and five others wounded, reaffirming the presence of an enemy. Mr. Thurlow said the boat was hit the day before. He also received a Bronze Star for the day, a fact left out of ''Unfit for Command.''
 Asked about the award, Mr. Thurlow said that he did not recall what the citation said but that he believed it had commended him for saving the lives of sailors on a boat hit by a mine. If it did mention enemy fire, he said, that was based on Mr. Kerry's false reports. The actual citation, Mr. Thurlow said, was with an ex-wife with whom he no longer has contact, and he declined to authorize the Navy to release a copy. But a copy obtained by The New York Times indicates ''enemy small arms,'' ''automatic weapons fire'' and ''enemy bullets flying about him.'' The citation was first reported by The Washington Post on Thursday.

Standing Their Ground
 As serious questions about its claims have arisen, the group has remained steadfast and adaptable.
 This week, as its leaders spoke with reporters, they have focused primarily on the one allegation in the book that Mr. Kerry's campaign has not been able to put to rest: that he was not in Cambodia at Christmas in 1968, as he declared in a statement to the Senate in 1986. Even Mr. Brinkley, who has emerged as a defender of Mr. Kerry, said in an interview that it was unlikely that Mr. Kerry's Swift boat ventured into Cambodia at Christmas, though he said he believed that Mr. Kerry was probably there shortly afterward. 
 The group said it would introduce a new advertisement against Mr. Kerry on Friday. What drives the veterans, they acknowledge, is less what Mr. Kerry did during his time in Vietnam than what he said after. Their affidavits and their television commercial focus mostly on those antiwar statements. Most members of the group object to his using the word ''atrocities'' to describe what happened in Vietnam when he returned and became an antiwar activist. And they are offended, they say, by the gall of his running for president as a hero of that war. 
 ''I went to university and was called a baby killer and a murderer because of guys like Kerry and what he was saying,'' said Van Odell, who appears in the first advertisement, accusing Mr. Kerry of lying to get his Bronze Star. ''Not once did I participate in the atrocities he said were happening.''
 As Mr. Lonsdale explained it: ''We won the battle. Kerry went home and lost the war for us. 
 ''He called us rapers and killers and that's not true,'' he continued. ''If he expects our loyalty, we should expect loyalty from him.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Kerry, hands on hips, and Roy F. Hoffmann, kneeling, in Vietnam. Mr. Hoffman helped start a group that criticizes Mr. Kerry. (pg. A1)
 (pg. A17)Chart: ''Connections and Contradictions''Swift Boat Veterans for Truth has a web of connections to the Bush family, to Texas political figures and to President Bushs chief political aide, Karl Rove.Swift Boat Veterans for TruthPROVIDED FINANCIAL SUPPORT FOR GROUPHarlan Crow$25,000Trustee of the foundation for President George Bush's library.Bob J. Perry$200,000Longtime associate of Karl Rove.ASSOCIATESKarl RovePresident George W. Bush's chief political aide.CLIENTSenator Kay Bailey HutchisonOne of Mr. Rove's top clients.A SPOKESWOMAN FOR THE GROUPMerrie SpaethPublic relations executive who represented wealthy supporters of President Bush's campaign in 2000.CLOSE FRIENDSSenator Kay Bailey HutchisonOne of Mr. Rove's top clients.MARRIEDTex LezarWorked for attorney general's office in Reagan administration.LAW PARTNERS WITH JOHN E. O'NEILL, A MEMBER OF THE GROUPJack O'NeillTex LezarWorked for attorney general's office in Reagan administration.Margaret WilsonMr. Bush's general counsel when he was governor of Texas. Followed him to Washington to become deputy counsel for the Department of Commerce.FORMERLY MARRIEDHarriett O'NeillNamed by Gov. George W. Bush to the state court of appeals when they were still married.In a number of cases, the claims made by members of Swift Boat Veterans for Truth in a television advertisement are undercut by military records or previous statements they have made supporting John Kerry.George ElliottWHAT THEY SAY IN THE ADVERTISEMENT: ''John Kerry has not been honest about what happened in Vietnam.''PREVIOUS STATEMENTS MEMBERS HAVE MADE: At a Kerry news conference in 1996, he said of Mr. Kerry, ''The fact that he chased an armed enemy down is not something to be looked down upon, but it was an act of courage. And the whole outfit served with honor.''WHAT THE RECORDS SAY: In 1969, Mr. Elliott wrote in Mr. Kerry's fitness report: ''In a combat environment often requiring independent, decisive action Lt. j.g. Kerry was unsurpassed. ... During the period of this report Lt. j.g.Kerry has been awarded the Silver Star medal, the Bronze Star medal, the Purple Heart medal (2nd and 3rd awards).''Roy F. HoffmannWHAT THEY SAY IN THE ADVERTISEMENT: ''John Kerry has not been honest.''PREVIOUS STATEMENTS MEMBERS HAVE MADE: In a June 2003 article in The Boston Globe, he recalled the actions that led to Mr. Kerry's Silver Star, saying ''It took guts, and I admire that.''WHAT THE RECORDS SAY: --Louis LetsonWHAT THEY SAY IN THE ADVERTISEMENT: ''I know that John Kerry is lying about his first Purple Heart because I treated him for that injury.''PREVIOUS STATEMENTS MEMBERS HAVE MADE: --WHAT THE RECORDS SAY: Dr. Letson's name does not appear on any of the medical records for Mr. Kerry. ''Under person administering treatment'' for the injury, the form is signed by J. C. Carreon, who died several years ago. Dr. Letson said it was common for medics to treat sailors with the kind of injury that Mr. Kerry had and to fill out paperwork when doctors did the treatment.Adrian L. LonsdaleWHAT THEY SAY IN THE ADVERTISEMENT: ''And he lacks the capacity to lead.''PREVIOUS STATEMENTS MEMBERS HAVE MADE: At a Kerry news conference in 1996, he spoke of the ''bravado and courage of the young officers that ran the Swift boats'' and said: ''Senator Kerry was no exception. He was among the finest of those Swift boat drivers.''WHAT THE RECORDS SAY: --Van OdellWHAT THEY SAY IN THE ADVERTISEMENT: ''John Kerry lied to get his Bronze Star. I know. I was there. I saw what happened.''PREVIOUS STATEMENTS MEMBERS HAVE MADE: --WHAT THE RECORDS SAY: While Swift Boat Veterans for Truth claims that the boats did not come under enemy fire, Mr. Kerry's Bronze Star citation says, ''All units began receiving small arms and automatic weapons fire from the river banks.'' The damage report for another boat present shows it received three bullet holes, suggesting enemy fire.(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); WRITERS (75%); HOMICIDE (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); LIBRARIES (70%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (96%); GEORGE W BUSH (94%); KARL ROVE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



463 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: The Chavez Victory: A Blow to the Bush Administration's Strategy in Venezuela

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO; Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Aug. 19 

 BODY:
When President Hugo Chavez was ousted in a coup two years ago, the Bush administration celebrated, calling the ouster his own doing. The rest of Latin America was left fuming by the overthrow and expressed strong support for Mr. Chavez as he was almost immediately swept back into power in a popular uprising.
 On Sunday, when Mr. Chavez triumphed over his adversaries in a referendum on whether he should be recalled from office, countries from Brazil to Argentina, Colombia to Spain heartily congratulated him. The United States remained silent for more than a day, until a State Department spokesman, Adam Ereli, offered tepid backing for the ''preliminary results.'' 
 The resounding victory was a blow to the Bush administration, which has struggled with how to deal with Mr. Chavez, a leftist firebrand who presides over the world's fifth-largest oil exporter and has opposed Washington on every major initiative in Latin America. ''There's no doubt in my mind that at least in the White House -- I don't know about the State Department -- there was a deep desire to see Chavez lose,'' said former President Jimmy Carter, whose Carter Center monitored the election and who has briefed American officials on his efforts to broker a peace between the government and its opponents. 
 Now, the United States has the challenge of constructing, from the ground up, a new relationship with Mr. Chavez, who has done everything imaginable to antagonize what he calls ''the colossus to the north.'' 
 He has used an expletive to describe President Bush, threatened to hold back oil sales if the United States invaded, and expanded Venezuela's ties with Cuba. His campaign to win in the vote was built largely on demonizing the United States. 
 ''The Bush government will be defeated on Sunday,'' Mr. Chavez told reporters three days before the recall vote. ''The confrontation in Venezuela is not really with this opposition. The opposition has a master, whose name is George W. Bush.''
 American diplomats privately say they do not think that Mr. Chavez believes his public statements, and that he manipulates latent anti-Americanism for political gain. But American policy has been largely counterproductive, only contributing to Mr. Chavez's increasingly hostile barbs.
 The United States long ago threw its lot in with an opposition movement that is being discredited by foreign diplomats and many Venezuelans for insisting that fraud took place when the preponderance of evidence indicates it did not.
 The United States has also provided money to groups like Sumate, which violated elections norms earlyon Monday by distributing results of a survey of voters leaving the polls that showed Mr. Chavez losing by a wide margin. Mr. Chavez seized on this financing of anti-government groups, channeled through the National Endowment for Democracy, to whip his supporters into an anti-American frenzy.
 ''The United States is stuck in a time warp,'' said Riordan Roett, director of Latin American studies at The Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University. ''It is using tools from the cold war, when money from the National Endowment for Democracy was useful in funding anti-Communist movements.''
 The United States policy has largely been out of step with the rest of the region. Washingron has been unable to grasp the widespread reaction against free market changes across Latin America, changes now being rolled back by left-leaning leaders. In Venezuela, the United States has operated on the presumption that Mr. Chavez's opponents had more support, clearly underestimating that most Venezuelans would vote to keep him in office.
 ''It's not that the U.S. is not paying attention, it's that their calculation and strategy was wrong,'' said Eduardo Gamarra, a Bolivian who is director of the Latin America and Caribbean Center at Florida International University in Miami. ''And it's been wrong because it's been based on the false assumption that Chavez is not popular, on the false assumption that he's a dictator.''
 After Mr. Chavez's resounding win, the Bush administration set itself apart from the rest of the region, calling on the Venezuelan government's electoral board to ''allow a transparent audit,'' though international monitors pronounced the election free and fair. On Tuesday, Mr. Ereli, the State Department spokesman, dodged questions from reporters about why the United States was not congratulating Mr. Chavez.
 A senior State Department official later said the United States' reticence was intended to defuse tensions in Venezuela, not to dismiss the results. He said Washington would issue a broader statement backing the results after a final audit.
 Not all of Washington's diplomatic moves here have failed. Ambassador Charles Shapiro, newly arrived in Venezuela when Mr. Chavez was briefly ousted in 2002, met frequently with him, patching up a relationship that was battered after the White House expressed support for the interim government that replaced him. The United States has also remained a loyal buyer of Venezuelan crude oil. American giants like Exxon Mobil and ChevronTexaco are producing oil and eyeing an expansion into largely undeveloped natural gas fields that are open to foreign investment. Those companies, and other major multinational businesses, provided Venezuela with much-needed foreign earnings when the opposition called nationwide strikes that battered the economy. 
 Those commercial links can strengthen the bond between Venezuela and the United States, which is dependent on Venezuelan crude.
 ''The business sector, the large business sector, has understood better the making of foreign policy than our government,'' Mr. Gamarra said. ''They looked at it from the perspective of what business opportunities ought to be.'' Better relations with Mr. Chavez are possible. With his presidency more secure since the vote, he has appeared open to reconciliation. He has invited opposition leaders to lunch and has expressed the wish for a new beginning with the United States.
 ''I would hope that President Chavez would now cool that anti-U.S. rhetoric,'' Mr. Carter said. ''There's no doubt that Chavez is a charismatic figure, very fiery in his rhetoric, which I deplore. But that's his personal characteristic, one of the avenues of his popularity among Venezuelans. I think now, though, that he is not campaigning for anything.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COUPS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); ELECTION MONITORING (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); PEACE PROCESS (53%); EVIDENCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CARTER CENTER (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); SPAIN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



464 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Kia Narrows Search To Four Agencies

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
Kia Motors America in Irvine, Calif., part of the Hyundai Motor Company, said yesterday that it had narrowed to four finalists a review for its creative account, which has been handled for five years by David and Goliath in Los Angeles. 
 Spending was estimated at $260 million to $270 million. 
 The finalists are David and Goliath; Cramer-Krasselt in Chicago; GSD&M in Austin, Tex., part of the Omnicom Group; and Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners in New York, part of the Kirshenbaum Bond Creative Network division of MDC Partners. 
 Three agencies were eliminated from the review: Campbell Mithun in Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies; and two owned by the Publicis Groupe, the Kaplan Thaler Group in New York and Publicis & Hal Riney in San Francisco.
 Kia assured David and Goliath a spot in the final round when the review began in June. GSD&M may have risked the most to reach the final round: hoping to advance in the Kia review, the agency last month withdrew from a review being conducted by another automaker, Subaru of America, even after being named a finalist by Subaru. 
 A decision in the Kia review, which is being managed by Achenbaum Bogda Associates, is expected in early fall.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (93%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (70%); PUBLICIS & HAL RINEY (70%); KIA MOTORS AMERICA INC (59%); CRAMER-KRASSELT CO (57%); MDC PARTNERS INC (57%); KIRSHENBAUM BOND & PARTNERS (57%)

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (93%); 005380 (KSE) (93%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); PUB (PAR) (70%); MDZ.A (TSX) (57%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); MINNESOTA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



465 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Tactic: Blame Foreigners and Ignore the Trade Deficit

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
BLAME the foreigners. That is a time-tested political tactic in America, and this year is no exception. 
 With the job outlook uncertain, protectionist winds are blowing. President Bush this week blasted European subsidies for Airbus, which has replaced Boeing as No.1 in commercial jets. Senator John Kerry has focused more of his fire on ''Benedict Arnold C.E.O.'s,'' executives who send American jobs overseas. 
 Those campaign positions both reflect and obscure a reality that neither candidate shows much sign of addressing seriously, the large American trade deficit.
 In going after Europe, Mr. Bush may be on to something. The United States' trade position with Europe has deteriorated almost as much as its position with China since President Bush's father was in the White House. But no one claims cheap labor is Europe's secret.
 In 1992, the United States had a trade surplus of almost $9 billion with the 15 countries that formed the European Union until it expanded earlier this year, and a deficit of $18.3 billion with China. The latest figures, for the 12 months through June, show a deficit of $99.8 billion with the European 15 and $138.7 billion with China. 
 Between them, the deteriorating trade positions with China and the European 15 account for 46 percent of the overall deterioration in the trade balance since 1992. 
 The differences are that Europe tends to supply higher-quality things -- machine tools and Mercedes-Benz autos, for example -- and that it has not been piling up huge amounts of Treasury securities. The numbers this week show China has $164.8 billion in Treasuries, second only to Japan's $689.3 billion. 
 In the second quarter, the American trade deficit exceeded 5 percent of gross domestic product, a record amount. That would sound alarm bells in other countries, but the United States sails along, buying whatever it wants and paying with newly printed dollars.
 Some argue the trade deficit is a sign of strength. It must be made up by foreigners buying dollar-denominated assets, and those purchases supposedly show how foreigners crave American investments.
 But during the first half of this year, foreigners put $270.5 billion in Treasuries, twice what they put in higher-yielding but riskier corporate bonds. They sold American shares. So much for wildly attractive investments.
 Many of those Treasury purchases are less than voluntary. Central banks in China and Japan buy Treasuries not because the rates look good but as a way of supporting the dollar to maintain American demand for their exports. 
 Now the Federal Reserve is starting to worry about the trade deficit. It was the subject of a long discussion at the June meeting of the Open Market Committee, including a number of research papers that have so far not been made public. According to the minutes, ''The staff noted that outsized external deficits could not be sustained indefinitely,'' but it did not forecast when the end would come.
 Steve Roach, the chief economist of Morgan Stanley, suggests the end will be no fun. When it happens, he says, the first casualty will be the value of the dollar. Then foreigners owning all those Treasuries will demand to be compensated for the currency risk, causing real interest rates to rise. That will lead to strains for highly leveraged consumers and to a cutback in consumption, which will in turn help bring down the trade deficit.
 Just how to bring that about with as little pain as possible might be a reasonable subject of discussion for the presidential campaign. But it will not be. Neither party wants to focus on such unhappy prospects.
 Instead, there is a risk they will look for scapegoats, whether in successful foreign companies or in American ones that invest abroad rather than at home.


GRAPHIC: Graph shows: Trade deficit as a percentage of gross domestic product. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (86%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); US DOLLAR (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BONDS (75%); CORPORATE BONDS (69%); BANKING IN CHINA (60%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (58%); BOEING CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004



466 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: WPP Profit Up 11%, Aided by Global Advertising Upturn

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

DATELINE: LONDON, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
The WPP Group, the world's second-largest advertising and marketing company, reported on Friday that profit for the first half of the year rose 11 percent, providing further evidence of recovery in an industry hard hit by the economic downturn.
 Revenue rose 6 percent, to $:2.03 billion ($3.7 billion), the company said, while net profit rose to $:105.9 million.
 With business improving in Asia and North America but continuing to be sluggish on the Continent, WPP is in line with the broader trends of the ad industry and the global economy. The Omnicom Group, the largest advertising conglomerate, recently reported a 15 percent rise in second-quarter net income, though the Interpublic Group, which is No.3, has struggled to turn itself around. WPP cautioned, however, that the outlook for 2005 remained uncertain. 
 WPP's chief executive, Sir Martin Sorrell, noted that ad spending this year was being helped by the European soccer championships, the Olympics and the United States presidential campaigns.
 But he also noted uncertainties on the United States economy, including the weak dollar, the growing budget deficit and the outcome of the election. ''If you've got a new administration in the biggest economy, the most powerful nation in the world?'' he said in a telephone interview. ''I'm not an Einstein, things could change.''
 Sir Martin was more confident about the structural trends within the industry, saying he expected consolidation to continue. Analysts say WPP is the front-runner to buy the Grey Global Group, the seventh-largest advertising and marketing company, which was put up for sale this summer by its 77-year-old chairman and chief executive, Edward H. Meyer.
 Sir Martin, who has built WPP through a series of acquisitions, confirmed his company's interest in Grey, though the slow sale process has also attracted feelers from several investment firms and Havas of France, the sixth-largest advertising company.
 In a meeting with analysts Friday, Sir Martin was said to have laid out the case for a purchase of Grey, which has a market capitalization of about $1.2 billion. Investors seem unsure of the acquisition's merits; while WPP shares have risen in the last week in anticipation of strong earnings, they eased 6.5 pence, or 1.3 percent, to 488 pence Friday.
 ''The reality is it would be a good acquisition for them,'' said Simon Baker, who follows WPP at SG Securities. ''But for the time being, it's a bit of an unknown risk.''
 With annual revenue of around $:4 billion, WPP -- the parent of ad agencies like J. Walter Thompson and Young & Rubicam and media-buying businesses like MindShare -- is more than five times the size of Grey.
 Mr. Baker said the company's organic revenue growth -- growth from current business operations, rather than from acquisitions -- was above expectations, as were profit margins. WPP has been cutting costs as it absorbs Cordiant, an advertising company it bought last year.
 WPP's recovery remains geographically inconsistent, however. Adjusted for currency fluctuations, revenue growth in Continental Europe, at 8.5 percent, lagged the 11.2 percent increase in North America, and the sharp 28.9 percent rise in the combined Asia-Pacific, Latin America, Africa and Middle East regions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); US DOLLAR (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); SOCCER (67%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (53%) Advertising and Marketing; Company Reports ; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: WPP PLC (92%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); JWT (60%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (58%); HAVAS SA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Wpp Group; Grey Global Group

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (92%); WPP (LSE) (92%); IPG (NYSE) (91%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); HAV (PAR) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (92%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (92%)

PERSON: Eric Pfanner; Martin (Sir) Sorrell

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (91%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004



467 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Justice Department Inquiry Examines Medical Supplies
The Justice Department has opened a broad criminal investigation of the medical supply industry, apparently to determine whether Medicare and other federal and state health programs are being overcharged for goods like rubber gloves, drugs and X-ray machines.
 More than a dozen medical supply companies have recently received federal subpoenas in what appears to be a wide-ranging investigation into the way suppliers market their products to clinics, hospitals and nursing homes that serve Medicare and Medicaid patients and whether those institutions properly account for the purchases. [Page A1.]

Shares Rise as Oil Prices Decline
Stocks jumped higher as investor worries about the effect of high fuel costs on consumer spending and company profits eased after crude oil prices fell from their peak. For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average posted its largest percentage rise in 15 months. The Dow added 69.32 points, or 0.7 percent, to 10,110.14. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 7.12 points, or 0.7 percent, at 1,098.35. The Nasdaq composite index gained 18.12 points, or 1 percent, to 1,838.01. [C4.]

Two Lose Law Licenses in Tax Case
The law licenses of two former Internal Revenue Service lawyers have been suspended for two years after a federal court ruling last year that they defrauded the courts so that the I.R.S. could win 1,300 tax shelter cases. [C2.]

Fox Moves Up Show's Start Date
In a continuing legal conflict over similar boxing reality shows, the Fox network decided to move forward the premiere of its show, ''The Next Great Champ.'' Fox said the move had nothing to do with the lawsuit that was trying to keep the show from being broadcast. [C2.]

Anadarko to Sell Some Oil Assets
Anadarko Petroleum has agreed to sell oil properties in the Gulf of Mexico to the Apache Corporation and the Morgan Stanley Capital Group as part of a plan to cut debt and buy back stock, Anadarko said. [C3.]

Profit at WPP Increases 11%
The WPP Group, the advertising and marketing company, reported an 11 percent rise in profit for the first half of the year, providing further evidence of recovery in an industry hard-hit by the previous economic downturn. WPP's chief executive, Sir Martin Sorrell, left, noted that ad spending this year was being helped by the European soccer championships, the Olympics and the United States presidential campaigns. [C3.]

Skilling Seeks Separate Trial
Lawyers for Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron, asked a federal court to separate his trial from that of his former boss, Kenneth L. Lay. [C4.]

South Korean Economy Grows
The South Korean economy grew at an annualized rate of 5.5 percent in the second quarter, slightly faster than the 5.3 percent in the first quarter, the Bank of Korea said. [C3.]

Venezuela's economy grew more than 10 percent for a second consecutive quarter, as President Hugo Chavez tapped into surging oil proceeds to increase government spending. [C14.]

Acid Reflux Treatment Cleared
Boston Scientific told doctors that they could resume using Enteryx, its treatment for acid-reflux disease. Boston Scientific had asked doctors to stop using Enteryx after a test detected a latex protein in the device. [C3.]

HBOS Interested in Abbey National
The British bank HBOS reiterated that it might bid for the British mortgage lender Abbey National. A bid by HBOS might thwart an attempt to buy Abbey by Santander Central Hispano. [C3.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,110.14 up 69.32Nasdaq composite -- 1,838.01 up 18.1210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.23% up 0.01The euro -- $1.2307 down 0.0060The dollar -- 109.19 yen down 0.13Graph tracks daily closes of the Dow Jones Industrials since January. Yesterday: 10,110.14(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); MEDICARE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); LAWYERS (79%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); BOXING (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (74%); REALITY TELEVISION (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (65%); SOCCER (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); EXECUTIVES (60%); MEDICAID (58%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (50%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: APACHE CORP (84%); ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (72%); WPP PLC (64%); MORGAN STANLEY CAPITAL GROUP INC (52%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%)

TICKER: APA (NYSE) (84%); APC (NYSE) (72%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (64%); WPP (LSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (72%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (72%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (72%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (64%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (64%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (64%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (64%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004



468 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Oil Price Comes Close to $50 But Then It Stages a Retreat

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Oil prices climbed nearer to $50 a barrel yesterday before retreating, as traders reacted to reports on the conflict in Iraq, concerned that growing unrest might interrupt crude oil exports. 
 On the Nymex, crude oil settled at $47.86 a barrel yesterday, the last day of the September futures contract. Earlier, the contract rose as high as $49.40 a barrel. Prices fell in afternoon trading amid conflicting reports over whether Iraqi police were in control of the Imam Ali shrine in Najaf, the scene of fierce fighting the last two weeks. 
 Still, the price of a futures contract can be distorted as it nears its expiration. The most active contract, crude oil for October delivery, ended at $46.72 a barrel yesterday, down 92 cents. Oil has gained 51 percent so far this year, reaching records every day except one since July 30.
 In Basra on Thursday night, insurgents set fire to the headquarters of the company operating Iraq's southern oil fields. Oil exports have been cut in half, to one million barrels a day, since Aug. 8 after fighting forced the closing of one of two pipelines in the south of the country.
 The other main outlet for Iraq's oil production, a pipeline linking the country's northern oil fields to Turkey, has been bombed repeatedly in the last year, forcing its partial shutdown. Iraq's oil production before the war hovered around 2.2 million barrels a day.
 These attacks against Iraq's oil infrastructure come against the backdrop of two weeks of fighting between the American military and Shiite militants in Najaf.
 ''The situation in Iraq has deteriorated,'' said Deborah White, an economist with SG Commodities in Paris. ''It's now like Murphy's Law: everything that can go wrong, will. Iraq is a war zone again.''
 Oil markets have been on edge in recent weeks, their concerns heightened by potential trouble in many of the world's largest oil regions.
 In Russia, it was pressure from the government against Yukos, the country's largest oil company; in Venezuela, it was a contested referendum on whether to oust President Hugo Chavez; in the Gulf of Mexico, it was the passage of Hurricane Charley, forcing the temporary closing of oil installations; and in Iraq, it was Moktada al-Sadr and his followers, who refer to themselves as the Mahdi Army.
 While the pressure on Yukos seems to have eased and Mr. Chavez won the referendum last Sunday, the situation in Iraq is still unpredictable. Since most countries are producing at their maximum levels, an interruption in exports from Iraq or elsewhere would be hard to offset.
 The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries accounts for about a third of the world's oil production but has little spare capacity to make up for production shortfalls. OPEC's 11 members are pumping 30 million barrels a day, the most since 1979. They can lift production to 30.5 million barrels next month, according to OPEC.
 Only Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil producer and OPEC's most powerful member, can still increase its output. The Saudis have already increased production by one million barrels a day in recent months and are currently pumping 9.3 million barrels a day. Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister, said the country could bring another 1.3 million barrels a day to the market if needed.
 ''Because the oil markets are fundamentally tighter, the threat of a disruption is a real one,'' said Irene Himona, an analyst with Morgan Stanley in London. ''This is where the fears concerning Russia, Venezuela and Iraq are playing in'' and are driving up prices.
 At the same time, Chinese consumption has increased global demand over the last year. Both the International Energy Agency, based in Paris, and OPEC, based in Vienna, have been caught short by the strength of global oil demand. Both raised their forecasts in recent days.
 The I.E.A., an adviser to 26 industrialized nations, projects global oil demand at 82.2 million barrels a day this year and 84 million barrels a day in 2005, about 730,000 barrels more than previously forecast.
 For its part, OPEC now expects global oil consumption this year to reach 81.18 million barrels a day, up 280,000 barrels from an earlier estimate.


GRAPHIC: Graph ''COMMODITIES'' tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since March 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (79%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); ARMIES (73%); TERRORISM (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); HURRICANES (60%); REFERENDUMS (60%); POLICE FORCES (56%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Futures and Options Trading; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (59%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%) Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); FRANCE (73%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004



469 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: An Oil Shock That Could Be an Economic Stimulus in Disguise

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
How much will expensive oil hurt? 
 Over the last 30 years, the United States has been driven into recession three times by abrupt surges in the price of oil. As the price of crude has surged over the last two weeks, reaching new heights almost daily, some economists have begun to worry that the current ''oil shock'' will slam the brakes on the nation's economic expansion again.
 It probably won't. Despite the disquieting parallels with the oil shocks of the 1970's, the 1980's and the 1990's, the impact of the current oil spike on the American economy is likely to be much less intense than in previous surges. 
 Not only is the economy much more energy-efficient -- gasoline prices have been stable in recent weeks -- but, more important, in contrast to previous periods when oil shocks occurred, inflation remains under control. So rather than pushing up interest rates and compounding the economic slowdown, rising energy prices today are slowing the rise of interest rates, providing an unexpected dollop of economic stimulus on the side.
 ''The past oil shocks gave the economy a one-two big punch,'' said Ethan Harris, Lehman Brothers' chief economist. ''This time it's more like little jabs.'' 
 Oil prices started rising substantially in May, driven by growing world demand, as well as by concerns over possible disruption of supplies from an unstable Iraq and other major producers like Russia and Venezuela. 
 Though prices fell back slightly in June, they picked up again in July -- and truly set off alarm bells as the benchmark crude oil contract neared a record $50 a barrel this week on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 Crude oil for September delivery, however, fell by 84 cents a barrel yesterday, to $47.86. 
 Undoubtedly, the recent price surge will hurt. 
 Rising gasoline prices have weighed down consumer spending, the driver of economic growth over the last three years. More costly oil has also proved to be a drag on the more energy-intensive Asian economies -- like China's -- cutting into American exports.
 Energy prices have added roughly one percentage point to inflation over the last year, shaving consumers' purchasing power proportionately. This contributed to a cooling economy in the second quarter, when the growth of consumer spending slowed to 1 percent at an annual rate, from 4.1 percent in the preceding three months. 
 ''Energy prices spiked in May, and in June a host of economic reports turned negative,'' said Robert Mellman, an economist at J.P. Morgan Chase. ''I don't think it's a coincidence.'' 
 Yet the economy is showing some resilience. The consumers who winced in June as the price of gas soared at the pump, proved in July to have staying power. Retail sales -- excluding autos, gasoline and restaurants -- bounced from a flat result in June to a 0.8 percent monthly increase in July, according to the National Retail Association. And the association is reporting strong back-to-school sales.
 Most economists have only shaved their growth forecasts. The 30 analysts polled by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia reduced their forecast for growth in the second half of the year to 3.8 percent from 4.1 percent, and they sliced their growth forecast for 2005 by 0.2 percentage point -- to 3.7 percent.
 Mr. Harris also reduced his forecast -- cutting an average of 0.3 percentage point from G.D.P. growth over the next six quarters. But he said the prospect of rising interest rates and the waning of the fiscal stimulus from last year's tax cuts were about as important as oil in his revisions. ''Oil is maybe half of the story,'' Mr. Harris said.
 There are several reasons to worry less about oil prices than during past oil shocks. The economy is much less dependent on oil than it was then. Today, it takes about 20 percent less energy to create a dollar of gross domestic product than it did during the last oil spike, during the first gulf war in 1991.
 Oil prices will slow the economy mainly through the price of gasoline, dipping into consumers' pocketbooks and billfolds -- and pushing up the cost to transport goods. Yet after spiking in May, gasoline prices have actually slipped, as refiners have increased production and rebuilt inventories. 
 ''Even at $48 per barrel we think it unlikely that retail gasoline prices will exceed their May peak of 206.4 cents by more than 10 cents,'' wrote Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics, in a note to investors.
 But perhaps the most important difference compared with the oil spikes of the past is the behavior of inflation and interest rates. Traditionally, higher oil has put the Federal Reserve in a tight spot -- depressing economic activity while at the same time sharply stoking inflation, creating pressure for a rise in interest rates. 
 Yet this time prices are not soaring. Overall consumer prices in July were only 3 percent higher than a year earlier, and prices excluding energy and food rose only 1.8 percent. This has allowed long-term interest rates to decline, as investors have concluded that higher energy costs are likely to slow the Fed's hand in raising short-term rates; not speed it.
 Low interest rates, in turn, have provided an unexpected stimulus to household borrowing -- the main economic fuel of the last three years -- and given a big boost to construction and housing. In the week ended on Aug. 13, the Mortgage Bankers Association's mortgage index jumped 11 percent from the week before, and the refinancing index soared 21 percent. Housing starts surged 8.3 percent in July. 
 ''If in the 1980 crisis I would have told you, 'Oil prices are up six bucks, let's go buy some housing stock,' you would have said I was crazy,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG/Hoenig. 
 Rising oil prices might yet cause economic havoc. If oil keeps rising at the current pace, heating oil prices could surge this winter, driving up costs for homeowners and landlords alike, and ultimately for many renters. Thus, if high energy prices persist, they might alter consumer spending habits. 
 Persistently high oil prices would also be likely to push up the cost of other energy sources, like natural gas -- an important fuel for manufacturers and utilities. It would further squeeze corporate profits. But so far, the damage seems less than catastrophic. 
 ''The price is high enough now that it can reduce the growth rate of the economy,'' said James Hamilton, an economist and expert on oil shocks at the University of California, San Diego. ''But I'm not predicting a recession.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders at the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday. The price of oil has risen steeply but the United States has become more energy efficient since the last oil shock, and the economic effects may be minimal. (Photo by Peter Foley/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); FUEL MARKETS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EXPORT TRADE (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Recession and Depression; Fuel Efficiency; Interest Rates; Credit

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (50%); JPM (LSE) (50%); 8634 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004



470 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Endangering Community Development

 BODY:
The Bush administration, which has already hobbled programs that provide housing subsidies for the poor, is undermining the Community Reinvestment Act, the most successful community revitalization program in the nation's history. The act requires banks to lend, invest and provide banking services to poor communities. So far, it has made more than $1.5 trillion available, much of it to developers and nonprofit groups that build affordable housing for the elderly and disabled people, as well as to medical clinics and other projects that would never get built if they were left to the private sector. 
 Thoughtful critics in the banking community have a point when they argue that the program needs updating and simplification, so that investments are targeted more effectively and banks have less difficulty complying with the act. But two of the federal agencies that oversee the banking industry have proposed a drastic change that could allow more than a thousand banks to back away from their community development obligations, leaving consumers in many states with worse banking services, and the communities themselves devoid of badly needed development projects. 
 The proposals are aimed at reducing the regulation of smaller banks, which have always thought that the return on community investments is too small and that the administrative costs of complying with the act are too high. The current law requires large banks to be evaluated on what is commonly known as the ''three-part test'': how they lend, invest and provide services in their communities. Small banks -- those with assets of $250 million or less -- are evaluated on a less stringent basis. But under new rules promulgated by the Office of Thrift Supervision, which oversees savings and loan associations, those more relaxed standards would apply to S.& L.'s with assets up to $1 billion.
 The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which oversees thousands of banks, is proposing the same adjustment. The government should update the regulations to make it simpler for banks to comply. Nobody likes red tape. But the Bush administration has a way of presenting a major policy change as a minor effort to tidy up cumbersome rules. Banks should not be allowed to jettison community reinvestment responsibilities -- which occupy a tiny fraction of banking assets -- in the quest for profit. If these new regulations are allowed to stand, the loss of C.R.A.-driven investments could be significant in some states, like Alabama, Florida, Idaho and New Hampshire. Communities could eventually find themselves back in the dark ages of redlining and financial isolation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HISTORY (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (56%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (56%) Banks and Banking; Editorials; Law and Legislation; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%) Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; Office of Thrift Supervision

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (65%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (65%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004



471 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Vetoes $235 Million From Legislature's Budget

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki wielded his veto pen on Friday to trim $235 million from the $101 billion budget that the Legislature passed last week, cutting allocations that lawmakers had added for colleges, libraries and health care. 
 In doing so, Mr. Pataki continued a pattern set last year, in which he and the Legislature fail to agree on a budget, the Legislature puts aside its differences to pass a budget over the governor's objections, and the governor vetoes parts of the budget the Legislature passed. But while Mr. Pataki vetoed well over a billion dollars in spending last year, prompting an immediate and embarrassing override, this year's cuts were smaller, and the Republican-led Senate did not say if it would override. 
 In addition to cutting $235 million in spending this year on college faculties, after-school programs and health care, and in aid that could force three jails to close, Governor Pataki's vetoes cut $1.6 billion in borrowing that had been planned for construction and maintenance projects, including $723 million for the State and City universities; $250 million for health care facilities, and $237 million for transportation.
 The governor said the vetoes were tough but necessary. ''When I go down the list of what I am vetoing, probably 9 out of 10, maybe more, are things that when I look at, I say, 'This is a good thing and we'd like to do it,''' he said. ''But as the governor of this state, at the bottom line, I'm the one that has to manage the state government and make sure that we can continue to meet the obligations that are passed into law.'' 
 His vetoes cut more than $5 million in financial aid programs for colleges, $19 million in operating aid for community colleges, and more than $4.2 million that was supposed to pay for more full-time faculty at the city and state universities. They cut funds to a center in Westchester where developmentally disabled children can go for dental care, and small grants to a number of distressed upstate cities.
 Mr. Pataki did not veto the Legislature's plan to have the state pick up the local costs of the Family Health Plus insurance program, or the $400 tax rebate for New York City, or the $170 million that the state must send to the city to pay for it to refinance its remaining debt from the 1970's fiscal crisis, a move he fought and lost in the courts.
 While advocates decried the cuts, saying they would eviscerate good programs, especially those that serve the poor and working class, some fiscal watchdogs worried that even with the cuts the state still faced a projected $6.1 billion shortfall next year.
 ''Even with these vetoes, this budget raises spending by three to four times the rate of inflation, leaves the state with a $6 billion out-year gap, and counts on fairly optimistic revenue assumptions,'' said Edmund J. McMahon, an analyst at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative policy group. ''That spells trouble.''
 Several lawmakers here said that the governor's vetoes appeared aimed at cutting some spending, but not enough to trigger an all-out war with the Legislature, and at putting some distance between himself and a $101 billion budget on the eve of the Republican National Convention. 
 State Senator David A. Paterson, who leads the Democratic minority in the Senate, issued a statement calling the vetoes ''an unconscionable maneuver designed to polish his conservative credentials before the upcoming Republican convention.'' 
 Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat who has been embroiled in a bitter feud with Governor Pataki all year, vowed that his house would override some of the vetoes that cut higher education, job creation programs and health care initiatives. Mr. Silver charged in an interview that with the Republican National Convention coming to New York this month, the governor was distracted.
 ''He's obviously not focused on the needs of New York State through these vetoes,'' Mr. Silver said. ''He's probably looking someplace else. He's failing the children in education from Pre-K to their B.A.''
 But Mr. Silver said he would not override any vetoes before the convention, to avoid embarrassing the governor. As it stands, Mr. Silver can choose to override only some of the vetoes, because the Republican-led Senate beat the Assembly to the punch in passing many of the budget bills last week in an effort to seize control of much of the override process. The house that passes each bill first must pass the first override.
 The Senate's majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, issued a statement defending the budget but leaving the questions of any overrides open. ''The Senate will review the ramifications of the governor's vetoes as well as the ramifications of not moving forward with critical investments that would make us more competitive and encourage businesses to locate, expand and create new jobs in New York State,'' he said in a statement. As usual, Mr. Pataki and the Legislature count differently when it comes to the budget. The Legislature said that the budget it passed calls for spending $101.3 billion. Mr. Pataki said its budget called for $101.6 billion. After his vetoes cut $235 million, he said, the total comes down to $101.3 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (92%); BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); FAMILY (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (72%); TAX LAW (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CHILDREN (68%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); INFLATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) Law and Legislation; Vetoes (US)

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki; Michael Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004



472 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: For a Reformed Wavoid, The Play's the Thing

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Jonathan Mirin says he first heard about Wave Systems from a guy named Jerry. 
 ''This company's selling for a dollar a share,'' Jerry told him. ''In a few years, it'll be going for 500.''
 In those days -- the late 1990's -- Mr. Mirin was a struggling New York actor in his late 20's and a teacher in the public schools. The way he tells it, Jerry was a fellow teacher who told him over a cafeteria lunch one day that he had once been a big-time investor: ''Limousines, jets, the whole thing.'' Yes, he had lost everything in the crash of 1989, but now he was back in the game and had a hot tip to share. 
 ''There's a company I've been watching,'' Mr. Mirin remembers Jerry saying. ''They've got a prototype for a security chip that's going to be in every motherboard of every computer everywhere in the world in, say, five or six years. You ever play the market?''
 Mr. Mirin hadn't, but he did, and now he has turned the experience into a one-man show, ''Riding the Wave.com,'' that is part of the New York International Fringe Festival, a theater arts festival that continues through Aug. 29. 
 Some parts of the story are embellished -- including the tipster's name, which Mr. Mirin said was not really Jerry -- but the play is mostly based on his experience of losing what little money he had, and a lot more that he borrowed, on shares of Wave Systems, a tiny technology company based in Lee, Mass. 
 ''I felt like I had received this tip, and I'd better make the most of it, because I don't travel in circles where I get tips,'' Mr. Mirin said in an interview between performances in Boston, where his show had a warm-up run in early August. ''I was enjoying living in New York, but I felt this would be a lot easier if I didn't have to worry about paying the rent.''
 Mr. Mirin was not alone. At the height of the technology bubble, Wave Systems attracted a devoted throng of investors from across the country who called themselves Wavoids. They plowed their savings into Wave, bought vanity license plates embossed with Wave's ticker symbol and, tongue in cheek, served Kool-Aid at shareholder meetings. They also made message boards devoted to Wave the most popular ones on Raging Bull, the financial chat Web site. 
 Among the faithful was Joe Trippi, who later managed Howard Dean's presidential campaign, using his experiences of interacting with other Wavoids online to build a potent Internet-based fund-raising organization. 
 ''That's how I learned how strong a community can be on the Internet,'' Mr. Trippi, who also did some consulting work for Wave, said in an interview. ''The Wave community, I think, is one of the reasons the company is still around.''
 At its peak in 2000, Wave Systems' stock briefly soared to $50 a share, making Mr. Mirin worth some $100,000, net of credit card and margin debt. Just as quickly, Wave deflated, and its shares now trade below $1. [They closed Friday at 81 cents.] Mr. Mirin was left in the red, struggling to meet minimum payments on his credit cards that ran as high as $1,400 a month.
 His play is, among other things, a manic primer on the old saws of investing -- diversification is good, borrowing money from your broker is not -- that are tossed out every time the market overheats. It is also an exploration of the market mania that overtook many people in the Internet bubble.
 ''It was kind of an addiction,'' Susan Kooperstein, Mr. Mirin's mother, said after one of his Boston shows. ''I would say, 'You have to get out of it,' and he would say, 'Yeah, I'm trying. I'm going to.'''
 But he didn't. 
 Mr. Mirin is a slight, pale 32-year-old whose play also describes his battle with Crohn's disease, an intestinal affliction. On a bare stage, he portrays being caught up in a vortex of faith and stubbornness, and ultimately assigns the blame for his predicament not to Wave Systems or to Jerry, but to his own obsessive foibles.
 Though he knew little about computers, he was taken with the notion of a miraculous security chip, and his belief in the company was bolstered by that of other Wavoids, who have posted more than half a million messages on Raging Bull's chat boards, though their formerly vibrant online community is more of a ghost town now. 
 ''When it started going up, I figured, well, my theories are confirmed, and my friends would say, 'You know, Jon, everyone's a genius in an up boom cycle,''' he said. ''I thought that for Wave to be doing this, someone must know something. 
 ''And then when it started going down, it was stubbornness: 'I'm not going to admit that I'm wrong.'''
 As the stock fell back to earth, Mr. Mirin tried to get Wave off his mind -- and wait for a rebound -- by traveling to meditation centers from the Swiss Alps to Katmandu. He met and married a woman along the way. But he found his spiritual journey disturbed by technology's reach. Everywhere, from first world to third, there were opportunities to check on the stock, and he found he couldn't resist. 
 In the play, he traces his world travels and Wave's share-price trajectory in chalk lines crisscrossing a black stage floor.
 ''He said he had debts, but I didn't understand the words,'' said Godelieve Mirin, Jon's Swiss wife. ''He was going to Internet cafes, calling, doing different things I didn't understand.''
 Even during a three-week retreat on an isolated mountain in Nepal, he could not free his mind from its inner ticker, conjuring up a life of poverty or a career as a motivational speaker on how not to invest. 
 ''The stock,'' he proclaims at one point in his play, ''has become like sex, elevated to the status of every third thought. Sex-stock-job, sex-stock-basketball, sex-stock-stock-stock.''
 Even by tech-bubble standards, Wave Systems was and remains a remarkable company. The company's pitch was that, in an era of increasing concerns over computer security, it had a chip that would make computers more secure than software could. More recently, after finding no market for the chip, it has repositioned itself as a provider of security software. 
 Founded in 1988, Wave has never reported a profit for even a single quarter, and it has lost more than $260 million. During the bubble, profit-free technology companies often won investors' favor, but they generally could at least boast of substantial revenue. Not Wave. In its latest quarter, it reported revenue of $6,300. 
 Even so, for the Wavoid true believers -- a voracious band of doctors, accountants, teachers and others who thought they had found the next Microsoft before the rest of the world -- giving up and selling was never an option, though in recent years some disenchantment has set in. 
 ''$6,000 in revenue????????'' read one posting on Raging Bull after the dismal second-quarter results were announced. ''Why bother opening the door and turning on the lights. Go mow lawns for more than that. A cabbie earns twice that. A laborer in a construction crew earns twice that. A New York deli does 15 times that.''
 Part of the allure of Wave Systems seemed to be the names associated with it. George Gilder, the technology guru, sits on its board, as does Nolan Bushnell, who founded Atari. Peter Sprague, who was chairman of National Semiconductor for almost three decades, founded the company; his son, Steven Sprague, now serves as chief executive. 
 ''Steven Sprague has amazing passion, and he's one of these 'you gotta believe' guys, even when the money is two weeks from running out,'' said Mr. Trippi, who still has some Wave Systems shares, though he sold most of his stock portfolio when he joined the Dean campaign. 
 Indeed, the company keeps managing to raise enough money in private-placement stock deals to keep the lights on. But Wave is the subject of a formal investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission concerning public statements made by the company last year, as well as trading activity by insiders.
 It is also being sued by shareholders who contend that the company overhyped deals with Intel and I.B.M. last year, bumping the stock upward and helping Wave close a $7.1 million private placement while executives sold shares. 
 The company has vigorously denied the accusations in its regulatory filings and financial reports. Mr. Sprague, the chief executive, declined to be interviewed for this article. 
 ''He doesn't see any upside in it,'' said David Collins, a spokesman for the company. 
 Mr. Mirin jokes in his performance that for him, diversification once meant buying options to buy more Wave shares instead of just buying the shares.
 ''Just for fun,'' he says at one point, ''I read a couple of books about investing, and they seemed to be really adamant about only two things: diversify, and don't get emotionally involved. But I figure, 'These must be the rules for the suckers.'''
 When he declared bankruptcy last year, Mr. Mirin was allowed to keep his 3,100 Wave shares because they were worth so little. In June, he finally brought himself to part with all but a few hundred. 
 ''After all those years,'' he said, ''I was happy not to care.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jonathan Mirin, like many other investors, lost money when the technology bubble burst. But he at least found theatrical inspiration in his Wave Systems experience. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); THEATER (90%); FESTIVALS (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (73%); THEATER & DRAMA (71%); BONDS (69%) Theater; Biographical Information; Stocks and Bonds; New York International Fringe Festival

ORGANIZATION: Wave Systems Corp

PERSON: Danny Hakim; Jonathan Mirin

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004



473 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Health Care And Job Growth

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 With an estimated 31 percent of our gross domestic product going to health care costs, both business and labor are squeezed. Workers can't afford to buy it on their own; employers increasingly cannot afford to provide it.
 But the real reason for the ever-increasing rise in health care costs is often overlooked -- the number of people with incurable diseases and disability. As many as 128 million Americans have chronic medical conditions that are never going to get better.
 Nothing lowers medical costs like curing disease. When polio vaccine was discovered, it saved not only thousands of lives, but also an estimated $30 billion a year. Stem cell research offers the possibility of cure to many medical conditions that are financially dragging us down. Millions suffer; our economy is threatened.
 A major investment in stem cell research is needed -- not the piddling amounts currently offered or proposed, but a major moon walk investment.

Don C. Reed
Fremont, Calif., Aug. 19, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (86%); VACCINES (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (67%) Medicine and Health; Finances; Health Insurance and Managed Care

PERSON: Don C Reed

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004



474 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: South Korea: Economic Growth

BYLINE: By Andrew Salmon (NYT)

 BODY:
The South Korean economy grew at an annualized rate of 5.5 percent in the second quarter, slightly faster than the 5.3 percent in the first quarter, the Bank of Korea said. The growth in the country's gross domestic product was broadly in line with market expectations. Exports drove expansion, rising 27 percent, year on year, fostering growth in capital spending of 5.7 percent. Analysts said a slowdown in exports is expected because of faltering growth in Japan and the United States, leaving Korea increasingly dependent upon China, where demand has been strong. Domestic demand growth was 2.2 percent, reversing a decline in the previous quarter. The bank warned that an expected recovery in consumer demand in the second half could be jeopardized by record high oil prices. Andrew Salmon (NYT)


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Korea's G.D.P since the second quarter of last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); TRENDS (88%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%) Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: BANK OF KOREA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of Korea

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: Andrew Salmon

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004



475 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Taiwan: Economy Expanding

BYLINE: Reuters

 BODY:
Taiwan's economy grew at its fastest pace since 2000 in the second quarter, prompting the government to raise full-year forecasts on expectations that strong domestic demand will offset slower export growth in the second half. While high oil prices added to worries of economic cooling in China and the United States, Taiwan's top export markets, private economists said the island's economy was on a stable footing with domestic consumption taking up the slack. Second-quarter gross domestic product was 7.7 percent higher than a year earlier, government data showed. Reflecting a rebound from a year earlier, when the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome hampered consumer spending, growth was the strongest since the first quarter of 2000 and accelerated from a revised 6.7 percent rise in the first quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); TRENDS (88%); CONSUMPTION (88%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (83%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); SARS (66%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Gross Domestic Product

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%) Taiwan

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004



476 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1792 words

HEADLINE: Young Workers Are Changing India's Politics and Society

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE

DATELINE: KNOWLEDGE CITY, India 

 BODY:
This American-style corporate campus outside Mumbai, formerly Bombay, is replete with an artificial lake, gym, cafeteria and the ambitious young Indians who are its lifeblood. 
 Ask them about India's future, and they chorus politely, but firmly: if older politicians will just get out of the way, a new, younger generation of Indian politicians will make India an economic superpower. 
 ''There are old people in wheelchairs,'' lamented Huafrid Bathena, a 24-year-old project manager. ''Let them lead themselves, not us.''
 In a demographic bubble that is transforming Indian politics and society, 54 percent of India's one billion plus people are now under the age of 25. As that group ages, seeks jobs and raises families, their demands, dreams and frustrations will dominate India. 
 Indeed, they already are, from their growing demand for limited university slots, to marketers' frantic efforts to shape their consumer impulses, to the way their attitudes about sex and family are changing patterns of population growth and the spread of AIDS. 
 They are a demographic behemoth but not a monolith. In interviews with 21 Indians under age 25 in modern high technology offices, derelict slums, rural villages and industrial cities across the country, young people expressed a clear split over how India could achieve greatness. 
 The division reflects the difficult mandate facing the new government, led by the Congress Party. As it pursues continuing growth and globalization, it must balance the rich and the poor, the old and the new. 
 It must reconcile the division between those who yearn for India's community-oriented quasi-socialist past and those who embrace the capitalist, Americanizing influences now present, between those who believe the profit motive fuels selfishness and greed, and those who believe it most efficiently allocates and expands resources. 
 Some young Indians are extravagantly successful, linked by technology to a globalizing world. More are poor, isolated from the rest of the world and frustrated by their exclusion from a narrow economic boom. 
 Young, highly educated Indians employed here at Reliance Infocomm, an Indian telecommunications conglomerate, express little faith in government, hail private sector work, and often live independently from their parents. They call the free market the best tool for eradicating poverty. 
 Poorer, less educated Indians, meanwhile, say they generally trust the government, want public sector jobs, live at home and vote like their parents. They believed that the state should lead a sweeping campaign to end poverty. 
 Nearly all sharply criticized religious extremism and called for a new, younger generation of leaders. Most said they expected India to develop into a leading economic power in their lifetime. 
 They praised the American business practices now sweeping India, saying they had brought more merit, efficiency and entrepreneurship. But they criticized American popular culture, saying it was decreasing human contact, creating political apathy and weakening the traditional Indian culture and families.
 In the end, their views reflected the hopes and contradictions of maturing youth everywhere but also the ambitions of a nation that has decided its time has come.

Rohit Pandey, 23, engineer, Mumbai
 Barely audible over the din of hundreds of his young Reliance Infocomm co-workers, Rohit Pandey brimmed with confidence as he sat in a modern, corporate cafeteria. 
 By the time he reaches retirement age, Mr. Pandey boldly predicted, India will be the world's most powerful nation. ''Fifty years, we'll be No.1,'' he declared exuberantly.
 His optimism, in part, is based on his coming of age in the portion of Indian society that has experienced explosive economic growth in the past five years. Mr. Pandey earns $8,000 a year, an amount that puts him among the elite of India, where the average yearly wage is about $460. But he was emphatic that for India to truly develop as a nation, its legions of poor must also flourish.
 ''We have to build up the whole mass to develop,'' he said.
 The Brahmin son of a professor and a housewife, he grew up in Varanasi, situated, like most of India's poor, in the country's north. 
 As a teenager, he scored high enough on standardized tests to win admission to one of seven distinguished Indian Institutes of Technology, where only about 2 percent of applicants gain admission each year. 
 Mr. Pandey, like many of his co-workers, is from an upper caste. But he and others said that private sector competition, not legislation, was easing caste, class and religious discrimination in India. In private companies, merit, discipline and skill are rewarded, they said. In state-run organizations, caste, seniority and connections rule. 
 Mr. Pandey said about half his friends were so apathetic about politics that they did not bother to vote. Those who did favored the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, because they saw it as more free-market oriented.
 But he complained that satellite television and grueling six-day workweeks were altering India's culture. He said American-style nuclear families were replacing the centuries-old Indian extended family system, where sons live with their parents after marriage. He lives in Mumbai, away from his family. 
 ''People are getting away from each other,'' he said. ''There used to be more human bonding earlier.''

Muhammad Imtiaz, 25, university student, Mumbai
 Thirty miles from the Reliance cafeteria, Muhammad Imtiaz lives in Asia's largest slum, the Mumbai neighborhood of Dharavi, home to more than a million people.
 Five-foot-wide alleys are the main thoroughfares and cramped single rooms are homes for families of six. Slightly larger rooms are factories where morose men, women and boys churn out clothes, gym bags and wallets. Children are bald, shrunken and bare, portraits of want.
 The 25-year-old son of a rickshaw driver, Mr. Imtiaz is the first person in his family to graduate from college. He is Muslim, as are about 15 percent of India's population. 
 ''I've seen privatization,'' he said, as whiffs of cooking spices, rotting trash and feces swirled in the air around him. ''It should be stopped.''
 He said the private company where he also works as a lifeguard at a luxury hotel cheated its workers and corporate clients, and had no commitment to improving Indian society. He hopes to become a public school teacher, a job he thinks can truly help his country. 
 Mr. Imtiaz said that he supported the Congress Party, and that the state's role should be to provide reliable jobs to poor people. ''I don't believe there is any benefit to private companies,'' he said. 
 Yet he, like his peers, displayed tremendous ambition and the belief that hard work would be rewarded in India. He said that as he watched rich Indians and foreigners frolic in the pool, he made a resolution. 
 ''I made my mind up that someday I will get to that position,'' he said. ''I believe in hard work.''

Anamika Chakraborty, 25, student, Calcutta
 Three years ago, Anamika Chakraborty's family moved from Assam, an impoverished northeastern state that endured a 20-year Marxist insurgency, to Calcutta, a city long associated with India's Communists and its cruelest poverty. 
 For the last quarter century, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has ruled West Bengal, the state Calcutta lies in, the longest successive reign of any political party in India. After the fall of the Soviet Union, the state was dismissed as a socialist anachronism.
 But today, a new generation of reformed Communist leaders is eagerly recruiting foreign investors, declaring the city a high-technology hub. American-style shopping malls and private housing developments have sprouted across the city, with huge billboards urging India's growing middle class to move in, enjoy the swimming pool and ''smash, splash and have a bash.''
 Ms. Chakraborty, who belongs to an upper caste and was strolling through a market with her cousin on a weekday night, said proudly that she was completing her final years in pursuit of a master's degree in business administration in a program in New Delhi. 
 She dismissed state-run corporations as wasteful, praised the reformed Communists for halting almost daily strikes that once crippled Calcutta, and said privatization's backers in Indian politics were the ones truly aiding younger Indians. 
 ''For the young Indians, those striving for jobs, they have done a lot,'' she said.
 She wants to work for a foreign corporation, but she also fears globalization. Young Indians who wear Western clothes, listen to Western music and demand to move out of their parents' homes early surround her, she said. Yet in her own life, she has decided to wear saris and other traditional Indian clothes. 
 She is determined to be both thoroughly modern at the office and to remain traditionally Indian at home. She plans to happily accept an arranged marriage.
 ''These things are changing,'' she said, referring to traditional Indian culture. ''These things should not change.''

Munna Kumar, 15, train sweeper, Bihar
 Asked what type of politician he liked, Munna Kumar seemed puzzled. ''I once heard Nitish Kumar,'' he said, referring to a local politician. ''He came to my village.''
 At 15, Munna is a lower caste train sweeper in Bihar, a northern state of 83 million people that is widely considered India's poorest. He, like 70 percent of Indians, lives in a rural area where most are farmers. 
 He dropped out of school in the second grade and started working to help support his family. His parents, who are both house servants, have five daughters and two sons. His home has no running water. He occasionally watches television in friends' houses.
 Each morning, he boards a train in his small town, Khagaria, and rides for four hours to the state capital, Patna. Along the route, he sweeps the train, then each afternoon makes the four-hour journey home. His earnings, usually less than $2 a day, go to his parents. 
 Asked what he wanted to be, he answered, ''I don't have any desire.'' 
 Prodded, he said, ''I wish I could be a big man and have my own shop.''
 He stood barefoot, holding a small straw broom, in Patna's main railway station. He said he thought a job in a private company would give him enough time off to visit his family. The only political position he articulated involved something he had experienced personally: corruption. He said politicians' No.1 priority should be to eradicate it. 
 ''Even here, police are taking money all over the place,'' he said, gesturing at the crowded train platforms. ''Once I saw it on a train, the police extorted 100 rupees per passenger.''
 Asked if India would be rich at the end of his lifetime, he replied, ''I don't think so.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Munna Kumar, 15, is a train sweeper in northern India. Asked about his aspirations, he said, ''I wish I could be a big man and have my own shop.'' (Photographs by Santosh Verma for The New York Times)
Rohit Pandey, 23, earns $8,000 a year, putting him among India's elite.
 Muhammad Imtiaz, 25, left, and Anamika Chakraborty, 25, both university students, have differing views on state and private companies. (Photo by Subhash Bhardwaj for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); FAMILY (89%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); SLUM DWELLINGS (66%); INTERVIEWS (66%); RELIGION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RELIANCE COMMUNICATIONS LTD (81%)

TICKER: RCOM (NSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (92%) NORTH INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004



477 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

A Sting, Not a Shock, From High Oil Prices
Though the United States has been driven into recession three times by abrupt surges in the price of oil over the last 30 years, the most recent spike will most likely have a less intense effect because of greater energy efficiency and low inflation. NEWS ANALYSIS, BUSINESS DAY

Crucial Juncture for Kerry
Senator John Kerry's response to the long series of attacks on his Vietnam record may prove pivotal to his hopes for victory in the fall. NEWS ANALYSIS, PAGE A10

Scandal at a Bronx Firehouse
Two firefighters were suspended yesterday after they admitted they had sex with a woman while on duty at their firehouse. Twelve others were reassigned. PAGE B1

More Gold, Then a Gift
Michael Phelps, right, won his fifth gold medal of the Olympics, edging Ian Crocker in the 100-meter butterfly. He also gave Crocker his spot in the medley relay and a shot at more gold. SPORTSSATURDAY, PAGE D1


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Barton Silverman/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (85%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (75%); MICHAEL PHELPS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004



478 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Bush Spent $46 Million In a Surge Last Month

BYLINE: By GLEN JUSTICE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
President Bush increased his campaign spending last month to the highest levels since March, laying out almost $46 million as his organization escalated television advertising in an effort to limit any gains that Senator John Kerry may have made by choosing Senator John Edwards as his running mate and then accepting the Democratic presidential nomination.
 Mr. Kerry, meanwhile, spent less than $38 million in July, officials of his campaign said, making that month the first since March in which he spent less than Mr. Bush. The president's outlays last month were roughly four times those of June. 
 The president's campaign began a blitz of commercials in July that mixed efforts to highlight his credentials with selective attacks on Mr. Kerry. It paid Maverick Media Inc., the company that creates advertisements for the Bush campaign and buys television time for them, roughly $38 million last month, campaign finance reports released on Friday show.
 In recent months, the Bush organization had been quite frugal, spending less than Mr. Kerry's. But it is expected to continue spending heavily this month, pressing an advantage over the senator: he shifted to public money a month before the Bush campaign will do so, and as a result must make that $75 million in public financing last longer. 
 ''We'll be aggressively promoting the president's message on TV, through direct mail and through person-to-person campaign activities,'' said Scott Stanzel, a Bush campaign spokesman.
 Mr. Bush's record fund-raising has continued to drive strategy in this year's election, though the Kerry-Edwards campaign raised far more than many Democrats had thought possible, shattering its own goals and setting a record for a challenger.
 In order to compete, Mr. Kerry has had to economize at times, and Democrats have been compelled to rely in part on independent advocacy groups, which are barred from coordinating their activities with the campaign but which have spent tens of millions of dollars on television advertisements attacking Mr. Bush.
 Over all, the Bush campaign raised more than $240 million through July, while the Kerry campaign's post-primary surge raised its total to at least $233.5 million, according to campaign finance reports and information from the candidates' organizations.
 Michael Meehan, a Kerry spokesman, acknowledged that the senator's campaign was currently at a financial disadvantage, despite the millions that have flowed in since the primaries. 
 ''The rules are stacked in their favor during this period -- that's the reality we face,'' he said of the requirement that any all-public financing take effect as soon as the candidate receives his party's nomination. ''We have to be dark during this period. We just have to ride it out.'' 
 Mr. Kerry did raise almost $44 million in July, as against some $14 million by the Bush campaign.
 Over all, Mr. Bush has spent more than $209 million on this year's election. (Mr. Kerry's total, to be detailed in his latest campaign finance filing, was not yet available as of late Friday evening.) Much of the Bush spending has been directed to television advertising and direct mail. Maverick Media has received roughly $122 million over the course of the election campaign, according to PoliticalMoneyLine, which tracks campaign finance. Another company, Olsen & Shuvalov, which handles direct mail and postage, has received almost $28 million. 
 Mr. Bush entered August with about $32.5 million in the bank, reports show. If his campaign has money left over, after expenses, when he switches to public financing in September, it can transfer the excess to the Republican Party.
 Mr. Kerry had almost $47 million in the bank on July 31, Mr. Meehan said, and has already given $3 million each to two party committees in the House and the Senate charged with electing Democrats to Congress. 
 Both candidates are now focusing more on raising money through the political parties, which will become the chief fund-raising vehicles for the fall campaign. The parties can spend about $16 million in coordination with the campaigns and an unlimited amount independently. 
 The Republican National Committee raised almost $26 million in July, bringing its total for the election to $245 million, according to PoliticalMoneyLine. It had about $87 million in the bank on July 31.
 The Democratic National Committee raised almost $20 million in July, bringing its total for the election to about $156 million, according to committee officials. It had about $62 million on hand. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MAVERICK MEDIA INC (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004



479 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 2709 words

HEADLINE: The Most Expensive Budget in the Least Productive Legislative Session

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
The 227th annual session of the New York State Legislature, which many here call the least productive in memory, finally sputtered to a close on Aug. 12 when lawmakers passed the latest, most expensive budget in state history and went home, leaving behind reams of unfinished business.
 The stumbling block all year was an order by the state's highest court to come up with a plan to fix New York City's public schools, which more than likely will mean spending more money on them. Faced with such a politically sensitive mandate -- which increased rivalries of upstate and downstate, cities and suburbs, Democrats and Republicans -- the state's leaders fought.
 In the end the three men who control the state -- Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican; Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat; and Senate Majority Leader Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican -- missed the court-imposed deadline and left it up to three court-appointed referees to come up with an education plan. And the gridlock caused by the school battle kept them from most of the other big items on their to-do list: lessening Rockefeller-era drug sentences they all agree are too harsh, overhauling an economic development program they all want to see changed, or passing new ethics laws to tighten regulations on the state's $100 million lobbying industry. 
 And giant question marks still hover over what they did get done. The Legislature passed a law to raise the state's minimum wage to $7.10 an hour from $5.15, but Governor Pataki vetoed it and the Republican-led Senate has so far hesitated to override his veto. The Legislature passed a bill to overhaul the budget process, but they have yet to send it to the governor, who has expressed reservations about it. And Governor Pataki vetoed parts of the $101.3 billion budget that they finally passed a third of the way into the year, but the Senate has said it has no intention of overriding any vetoes before the Republican National Convention is held at the end of the month in New York City.
 At times the state seemed not only to be failing to make new laws, but also to be losing laws that were on its books. The state's highest court struck down New York's death penalty as unconstitutional; a midlevel court struck down part of the law authorizing the state to raise money through video gambling machines; and a low-level court struck down the enforcement provisions of the state's lobbying law. 
 Still, the two houses of the Legislature did wind up passing laws to fight terrorism, allow all liquor stores to stay open Sundays, and prohibit the sale of wild animals as pets. The Legislature introduced 17,084 bills this year, of which 864 passed both houses. A little more than half, 438, have been sent to the governor so far, and he has signed 271, vetoed 24, and is weighing action on 143 of them. 
 The following were the major actions, and inactions, of the session.

Budget
 It was the 20th year in a row that the Legislature failed to pass the budget on time, and lawmakers marked the anniversary by breaking the record for lateness, passing it 133 days after the fiscal year began April 1. 
 When it was passed, the budget broke the $100 billion mark for the first time, and how it got there is a lesson in the ambiguities of Albany math. Last year legislators passed a $92.8 billion budget over Mr. Pataki's vetoes. At the time the governor called their plan a ''fiscal train wreck.'' But when it came time to propose a budget this year, Mr. Pataki called for a $99.8 billion spending plan, saying that more federal aid, among other things, had driven up spending.
 Still, the Legislature added an additional $1.5 billion to the governor's plan through a combination of more spending and revenue reductions, before passing a budget that members said totaled $101.3 billion. But Mr. Pataki said that they were undercounting, so after he vetoed $235 million in their spending plan, he announced that it would bring the total spending plan to $101.3 billion.
 Under the budget, the state takes over the cost of the Family Health Plus health insurance program from local governments, increases aid to education by more than $740 million, and retains a sales tax on clothing costing less than $110 that had been due to lapse.
 This year the Legislature passed two bills to end the cycle of late budgets by delaying the start of the fiscal year to May 1, putting an austere contingency budget into effect if the budget is a moment late, and requiring the state to appropriate school aid in two-year increments. But analysts say that their plan would weaken the role of the governor, and they have yet to send it to Mr. Pataki for his signature.

Food and Drink

LEGISLATION ENACTED
 Allow restaurant patrons to take home partially consumed bottles of wine, in an effort to discourage drunken driving by people who feel compelled to polish off the bottle.
 Requires vendors to disclose their basis for labeling food kosher, and strengthens consumer protections against false or misleading claims. 
 Allows liquor stores to stay open seven days a week, erasing the last vestige of a Blue Law that left many people who drink limited to beer with their Sunday dinners.

LEGISLATION FAILED
 Would have allowed for the direct shipment of wine from vineyards to consumers, a move sought by the state's wineries and consumers but opposed by wholesalers and liquor store owners.
 Would have prohibited falsely labeling food as compliant with Islamic dietary restrictions, or halal.

Crime, Punishment and Terrorism

LEGISLATION ENACTED
 Creates new felony offenses for the possession or use of chemical and biological weapons; stiffens penalties for causing alarm by sending substances designed to look like hazardous materials; increases penalties for money laundering; replaces the state's Office of Public Safety with an Office of Homeland Security and tightens security around chemical plants and airports.
 Expands the state's DNA databank, adding nearly 100 new crimes, including some misdemeanors, to the list of offenses for which convicts are required to provide DNA samples. 
 Protects the confidentiality of some civil court participants, like victims of domestic violence, by barring the court from releasing their addresses or telephone numbers if doing so would threaten their safety. 
 Provides a mandatory sentence of life imprisonment without parole for people convicted of murder in the course of a sex crime where the victim is younger than 14. The measure is called Joan's Law, in the memory of Joan D'Alessandro, who was kidnapped in 1973 while selling Girl Scout cookies near her home in New Jersey and was later found dead in New York State.
 Changes the information number for the state's sex offender registry to a toll-free number from a 900 number that charges a fee.

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
 Would increase the penalties for public lewdness to up to three years' probation.

LEGISLATION FAILED
 Would have overhauled the Rockefeller drug laws, which impose lengthy mandatory prison sentences on nonviolent drug offenders, and which all sides in Albany have said for several years that they would like to change. Those serving time under the laws are disproportionately black and Hispanic. But while the governor, the Assembly and the Senate all agree that the sentences should be reduced, they disagree on which convicts should be sent to treatment instead of prison, and on how much discretion should be given to judges. 
 Would have rewritten the state's death penalty law to address the concerns of the state's highest court, which ruled the law unconstitutional.
 Would have banned .50-caliber weapons, which are said to be capable of shooting down aircraft.
 Would have allowed the state to use roving wiretaps on suspected criminals. 
 Would have required gun owners to renew their gun licenses every five years and pay a $100 fee each time.

Education

LEGISLATION ENACTED
 Allows all school districts to raise the age through which children are required to attend school to 17 from 16.

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
 Would prevent the State University and the City University of New York from establishing a minimum score on a standardized test as a means to reject admission.

LEGISLATION FAILED
 The state failed to agree on a plan to overhaul education funding across the state to comply with a ruling by the state's highest court which found that the state had shortchanged New York City students and ordered the state to find a remedy. With the failure of the state's elected representatives to act, the issue is now being decided by the courts, and schools did not get the giant increase in aid that they had hoped for.

Animals and Hunting

LEGISLATION ENACTED
 Makes it a felony to breed or sell animals for fighting. 
 Gives judges more discretion in determining whether a dog is dangerous.
 Creates a voluntary $1 contribution option on hunting and fishing licenses to support the delivery of venison to food banks across the state.

LEGISLATION VETOED
 Would have required hunting traps to bear the trapper's name and address.

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
 Would require hunters to wear at least 400 square inches of fluorescent orange clothing. 
 Would prohibit the sale, barter or exchange of wild animals as pets.

Aging

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
 Would establish standards and increase oversight of assisted living facilities for the elderly, and require them to be licensed by the Health Department.

LEGISLATION FAILED
 Would have required banks to cash Social Security checks from anyone with valid identification, whether they had an account at the bank or not.

Cities and Local Governments

LEGISLATION ENACTED
 Establishes guidelines for the rebuilding of the World Trade Center site and Lower Manhattan, allowing the city and utility and telecommunications companies to bid together on construction jobs to reduce the need to rip up streets repeatedly; allowing public agencies to prequalify potential contractors to speed up the process, and requiring all public agencies to use low-diesel fuel construction vehicles to keep the air clean. 
 Restricts sidewalk vending in the city's high-traffic areas and prohibits it immediately around the World Trade Center site -- extending and strengthening a previous law that lapsed a year earlier, much to the consternation of city officials and businesses who complained that their sidewalks had become choked with vendors. 
 Allows Orange, Madison and Schoharie Counties to increase their local sales tax and Erie County to extend an increase in its sales tax that was enacted in 1985 and has been extended every year since then. 
 Expands a program that gives tax breaks to businesses that relocate north of 96th Street or outside Manhattan to businesses that move to Lower Manhattan. 

Consumers

LEGISLATION ENACTED
 Allows dry cleaners to dispose of clothes left with them for more than six months.
 Prohibits the sale of children's clothing with long drawstrings at the waist or neck, amending an earlier law that was intended to prevent injuries caused when drawstrings are stuck in school bus doors or snagged on playground equipment. The law also defines the terms drawstring, tie, hood, neck opening, toggle and aglet (which is the metal tip at the end of a cord). 
 Allows drivers to put children who are under 4 but weigh more than 40 pounds in booster seats, instead of child-safety seats they are currently required to use. 
 Requires stores to tell consumers about any expiration dates, fees or replacement policies on gift certificates or gift cards.

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
 Would set standards and impose restrictions for marketing credit cards on college campuses. 
 Would raise the fines of telemarketers who violate the state's Do Not Call Registry to $11,000 from $5,000.

Economic Development

LEGISLATION ENACTED
 Allows agricultural cooperatives to qualify for Empire Zones tax breaks. 
 Extends the Empire Zone program, which was set to end last month, through next March.

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
 Would pave the way for a new convention center in Albany by creating a new public authority to plan it.

LEGISLATION FAILED
 Would have expanded the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on the West Side of Manhattan. Negotiations broke down over the Assembly's desire to make the new construction subject to local land use review, and the Senate's desire to match the state's $350 million share of the project with another $350 million to be spent upstate.
 Although all sides agree that the Empire Zone law needs retooling -- and audits by the state comptroller's office claim that the program has given tax breaks to businesses that actually lose jobs -- they could not agree what to do about it, so rather than fix the law, the Legislature extended it temporarily.

Environment and Energy

LEGISLATION ENACTED
 Requires the labeling and recycling of consumer products containing mercury. 
 Creates the Niagara River Greenway Commission to develop a park along the Niagara River.

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
 Would allow consumers to reduce their utility bills by generating wind power, and allow electric companies to connect their systems to residential wind generating equipment.

LEGISLATION VETOED
 Would have phased out the manufacture, sale and use of creosote, which is used to treat wood, because of health and environmental concerns.

LEGISLATION FAILED
 Would have increased the bottle law deposit to 10 cents, and apply it to bottles of noncarbonated drinks that have proliferated since the original law was passed.
 Would have improved community involvement in deciding where to put power plants.

Government and Ethics

LEGISLATION ENACTED
 Allows local governments outside New York City to borrow and delay making payments to their pension funds to save $1.17 billion this year. 
 Sets some standards governing what forms of identification will be acceptable at polling places in the November elections.

LEGISLATION FAILED
 Would have overhauled the state's election system and bought new voting machines to comply with the federal Help America Vote Act.
 Would have increased oversight on the state's growing network of public authorities, which do the work of government without the accountability.
 Would have strengthened the state's lobbying laws to require lobbyists seeking state contracts to register, just as those seeking new laws are now required to do. 
 Would have overhauled the state's system of selecting judges, which is tightly controlled by party bosses and has been criticized in a series of recent scandals.

Health

LEGISLATION ENACTED
 Assumes local governments' share of the Family Health Plus insurance program.
 Establishes centers for eating disorders, requires insurers to cover treatments provided by state-identified eating disorder centers, and establishes a grant program for education and research about eating disorders.
 Create a new voluntary check-off box on state income tax forms to allow people to donate to prostate cancer research and prevention efforts.
 Prohibits the sale of water laced with nicotine to children under 18. 
 Requires health clubs with more than 500 members to have at least one defibrillator and employees trained to use it and to administer cardiopulmonary resuscitation, or CPR.

LEGISLATION FAILED
 Would have overhauled the Medicaid program, one of the fastest-growing expenses for both state and local governments, by cutting spending in a number of ways, including limiting the eligibility of certain drugs. Would have allowed the state to buy prescription drugs in bulk, and then pass the savings on to consumers.

Insurance

LEGISLATION ENACTED
 Extends a property insurance program of last resort, to give basic coverage to homes in coastal areas and high crime neighborhoods.

AWAITING SIGNATURE OR VETO
 Would subsidize health insurance continuation benefits for people in the entertainment industry and other dislocated workers who work only intermittently. 
 Would require insurers to cover mental health treatment. 

Military

LEGISLATION ENACTED
 Requires the state police to accept applications and administer entrance exams more often during wartime, to allow returning members of the military to apply for jobs.
 Exempts state National Guard pay from state taxes and raises the pay for members ordered into active duty by the state to $125 a day from $100 a day.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 25, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about major actions taken by the New York Legislature this year misstated the fate of a proposal to require insurers to cover more mental health treatment. The legislation never passed; it is not awaiting the governor's signature or veto. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: When a bottle of wine is half full, but everyone at the table has had enough, the bottle may be taken home as part of state legislation to discourage drunken driving. (Photo by Lars Klove for The New York Times)
 The budget allows joint construction bids in Lower Manhattan for utilities, telecommunications and other companies to reduce the need to repeatedly rip up streets. (Photo by Mike Appleton for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); VETO (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); SENTENCING (71%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); ETHICS (65%); ANIMALS (60%); TERRORISM (50%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (50%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%) Education and Schools; Law and Legislation

PERSON: Michael Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



480 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: Good Grief! That Favorite Comic Strip Is Missing

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG; Eric Dash contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
When The Dallas Morning News pruned its stock tables, sports results and television listings this year, a consequence of sluggish advertising revenue and sharply rising paper costs, few readers felt aggrieved enough to complain. 
 But when the paper later staged a ''Survivor''-style contest to cut a dozen of its 53 comic-strip offerings to save a precious half-page of space in the weekday paper, more than 40,000 readers voted their passions.
 They lobbied successfully for comic comfort food like ''Peanuts'' and ''For Better or For Worse,'' though other chestnuts like ''Mary Worth'' and ''Steve Roper and Mike Nomad'' faced a grimmer fate. They also railed against a newer strip aimed at a younger audience, ''La Cucaracha,'' about a group of 20-somethings living in East Los Angeles, while exhibiting indifference toward another, ''Jump Start,'' about a black family. Both comic strips were ultimately cut. 
 While the excisions in Dallas are among the most severe involving the funnies in recent memory, newspapers across the country have been engaging in similarly agonizing discussions about whether their current rosters of comics (sometimes four pages a day) are a luxury, given the current dreary economics of the newspaper business.
 A handful of big daily newspapers -- including The Salt Lake Tribune -- have, like The Morning News, recently cut the number of comics they run, or shrunk the size of some strips so that they fit into a smaller space. Others, including The Houston Chronicle, have in recent months mounted or at least contemplated surveys like The Morning News's to gauge reader preferences -- a precursor, they acknowledge, to possible future cuts.
 In grudgingly taking up such questions, editors and publishers face a choice that has long been agonizing for papers that dared to replace longtime favorites. By cutting strips like ''Brenda Starr'' and ''Judge Parker,'' as The Atlanta Journal-Constitution did this year as part of a comics shuffling, editors run the risk of alienating older readers, who are their core constituency. (Indeed, after a write-in campaign, The Journal-Constitution decided to give ''Judge Parker'' a reprieve.)
 But if editors instead choose to cut newer strips like ''La Cucaracha,'' or fail to make room for more cutting-edge work, they realize they may be bobbling a prime opportunity to lure the younger people who are critical to newspapers' future -- and whose love for animated entertainment has been demonstrated by the television programs (including ''The Simpsons'' and ''King of the Hill'') and movies (''Finding Nemo'') that they watch and the books (graphic novels) that they read.
 ''I think newspapers need some percentage of attraction to young readers to get them interested, get them hooked, get them off the Internet,'' said Scott Adams, the creator of ''Dilbert,'' the 15-year-old chronicle of cubicle culture that appears in 2,000 papers worldwide. ''The comics page is their portal. And right now, they risk having no portal.'' 
 Lalo Alcaraz, an editorial cartoonist for the alternative newspaper LA Weekly, who has been drawing ''La Cucaracha'' for nearly two years, was more blunt about the generational scrimmage for space on the comics page. 
 ''If only science had not found a way to revive dead cartoonists and keep them alive, that would be helpful to me and a lot of guys coming up,'' he said in a veiled swipe at, among others, ''Peanuts,'' which remains in syndicated reruns more than four years after the death of its creator, Charles M. Schulz. 
 Deliberations within newspapers about whether to cut comics, and if so how many and which, are set against a bleak economic backdrop. Not only have newspapers in general not partaken of the advertising rebound some other media, like television, have enjoyed, but publishers also are grappling with the unforeseen costs of covering a war in a year that also has the Olympics and a national election. Meanwhile, ominously, newsprint prices have risen steadily, jumping 10 percent in the last year, with another similar increase expected. 
 ''We're struggling with both the cost of the comics we buy and the cost of the newsprint we use to run them,'' said Amanda Bennett, editor of The Philadelphia Inquirer, which is considering trimming the paper's two pages of comics each weekday. ''We think readers still care a lot about the comics. Although in the long term, we're thinking of them in ways like stock agate, which had usefulness, but the usefulness is dropping off.''
 The Inquirer cut one comic earlier this year, although that move had more to do with extracting concessions from the syndicates that license such strips -- sometimes for as much as several hundred dollars a week per strip -- rather than as a paper-saving measure. The Inquirer asked The Washington Post Writers Group, whose offerings include Berkeley Breathed's ''Opus,'' to make one of its strips available free to the paper for at least six months, a request first reported by Editor & Publisher. When The Post Writers Group balked, The Inquirer made good on its promise to drop one comic strip, eliminating a relative newcomer called ''That's Life,'' said Karisue Wyson, a sales manager for the group.
 For The Salt Lake Tribune, which cut its weekday comics section from three pages to two late last year, the issue was not about cutting the number of pages in the paper but about competing priorities in a zero-sum world. 
 ''It was simply consuming, we felt, too much of our news hole,'' said Terry Orme, managing editor for news and business. ''We needed some more space for our features section. And we couldn't go up in space.''
 Seizing an opportunity to weed out some of its oldest strips, the paper announced late last year that it had retired ''Judge Parker'' and ''Mary Worth,'' among others. Readers then loosed a fusillade of e-mail messages, phone calls and faxes in response, some of them invoking breakfast-table chatter with their grandparents.
 ''Some callers said they liked the little stories that continued from day to day, because 'they are like little soap operas that don't take long to read,''' Connie Coyne, the paper's reader advocate, wrote on Nov. 22. ''And many readers said they liked the strips because they emphasized American values of hard work, truthfulness, sincerity, loyalty and love of family.''
 A few weeks later, the two strips were restored. A relatively new strip, ''Out of the Gene Pool,'' was pulled instead.
 ''You're trying to get the best of both worlds here -- maintain your base, and grow,'' said Mr. Orme. ''It's a difficult balancing act.''
 While acknowledging that comics have long served as a gateway to newspapers for young people, Mr. Orme expressed confidence that his paper could continue to find other attractions for them, including using that space for articles about movies and music.
 But at The Morning News, Mike Peters, an editor who writes a regular column on comics, said he worried that his paper was squandering a crucial opportunity by letting a survey of current readers -- more than half of them over 55 -- wield the axe so disproportionately against newer strips. ''It's a fatal flaw of a survey like this,'' he said. ''One of the goals of reaching out to your market and soliciting that kind of input is that you want to have strips in there that appeal to the readers you don't have.''
 (As part of the process, the paper did add one new comic strip, ''In the Bleachers.'')
 James M. Moroney III, the publisher and chief executive of The Morning News, said he saw no downside for young readers, and instead cited the potential benefits, for readers both old and young, of a thinner paper.
 ''All the research we do says that to the reader, to the consumer, 'more' isn't necessarily better,'' Mr. Moroney said. ''They want us to edit the paper down fairly tightly.''
 Though, as Mr. Moroney learned, not too tightly.
 So passionate was the response to the comics poll in Dallas, particularly among longtime readers, that late last month the paper staged a runoff to restore one of the fallen dozen. The contest was won -- by a margin of just 55 of the 15,000 votes cast -- by ''Love Is '', a treacly one-panel strip of aphorisms that has been pasted to refrigerators for decades.
 Among those who cast one of the votes for ''Love'' was Christopher Kratovil, 30, a lawyer who told the paper he had not paid much attention to that comic, or any other, until falling in love himself two years ago.
 ''My wife will clip out 'Love Is ' and put it in my wallet, my briefcase, the front seat of my car,'' Mr. Kratovil said last week in a telephone interview.
 Asked how he had felt during the two weeks last month that the strip was out of the paper, Mr. Kratovil said: ''It was the moral equivalent of not having a morning coffee. I could live without it, but my life is much more pleasant with it.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 16, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Aug. 22 about the reaction of newspaper readers to changes in the lineup of daily comic strips referred imprecisely to the return of ''Judge Parker'' at The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. The paper, which dropped seven strips, including ''Judge Parker,'' replaced them with five others and then invited readers to vote on restoring one dropped strip. While ''Judge Parker'' received the most votes, there was not an independent write-in campaign.

GRAPHIC: Photos: To save money, gain space or stay current, some newspapers are cutting comic strips like ''Brenda Starr.'' (Photo by Tribune Media Services)(pg. 1)
 (pg. 22)Chart: ''Lighter on Laughter, But Still a Place for 'Love'''In late June, The Dallas Morning News eliminated 12 comics from its daily Texas Living section to save space and money. Here are several that were cut. ''Love Is . . .'' was later restored after readers wrote in.''Cleats''By Bill HindsSYNDICATOR -- Universal PressNew strip about soccer moms and their kids''Mary Worth''By Karen Moy and Joe GiellaSYNDICATOR -- King FeaturesLongtime strip about a 60-ish woman who gives advice''Jump Start''By Robb ArmstrongSYNDICATOR -- United FeatureA strip about a middle-class black family''Love Is . . .''By Kim CasaliSYNDICATOR -- Tribune Media ServicesCute sayings about love in a strip created in the late 1960's(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (89%); YOUTH MARKET (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); PUBLISHING (72%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (71%) Newspapers; Comic Books and Strips; Public Opinion

COMPANY: ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION (63%); KEARNS-TRIBUNE LLC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

PERSON: Jacques Steinberg

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



481 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 2982 words

HEADLINE: Did Antidepressants Depress Japan?

BYLINE: By Kathryn Schulz. 
Kathryn Schulz is a freelance writer and editor at large of Grist Magazine. She was a Spring 2004 Pew Fellow in international journalism.

 BODY:
If you had lived in Japan for the last five years, you would know by now that your kokoro is at risk of coming down with a cold. Your kokoro is not part of your respiratory system. It is not a member of your family. Its treatment lies well beyond the bailiwick of your average ear, nose and throat doctor. Your kokoro is your soul, and the notion that it can catch cold (kokoro no kaze) was introduced to Japan by the pharmaceutical industry to explain mild depression to a country that almost never discussed it.
 Talking about depression in Japanese has always been a fundamentally different undertaking than talking about it in English. In our language, the word for depression is remarkably versatile. It can describe dips in landscapes, economies or moods. It can refer to a devastating psychiatric condition or a fleeting response to the Cubs losing the pennant. It can be subdivided almost endlessly: major, minor, agitated, anxious, bipolar, unipolar, postpartum, premenstrual. 
 But in Japanese, the word for depression (utsubyo) traditionally referred only to major or manic depressive disorders and was seldom heard outside psychiatric circles. To talk about feelings, people relied on the word ki or ''vital energy.'' A literal translation of Japanese synonyms for sorrow reads, to Westerners, like the kind of emotional troubles that might befall a kitchen sink: ki ga fusagu, sadness because your ki is blocked; ki ga omoi, sadness because your ki is sluggish; ki ga meiru, sadness because your ki is leaking. 
 Inside every neologism lies a compact history of cultural change -- think McJobs, metrosexuals, the blogosphere. In Japan, the coining of kokoro no kaze marked a sea change in people's thinking about depression. That transformation was triggered by the pharmaceutical industry's other contribution to Japan in 1999: along with providing a catchy slogan for mild depression, the industry provided a cure: modern antidepressants. More than a decade ago, Peter Kramer chronicled the capacity of those drugs to reshape the cultural landscape in ''Listening to Prozac.'' But back then the culture they reshaped was the culture that had shaped them. Now, a huge campaign by the pharmaceutical industry is publicizing mild depression, which most Japanese didn't realize existed until recently. Japan has become a proving ground for what we stand to gain and lose by the global expansion of Western psychopharmacology.
 Certainly, Japan is a compelling candidate for a mental health makeover. Serious mental illness has long been inadequately addressed there. The suicide rate is more than twice that of the United States. The average hospitalization for mental illness lasts 390 days, compared with the American average of less than 10. Until recently, depression was regarded in much the same light as schizophrenia, and treatment was available almost exclusively in institutions. There was no such thing as ''mild'' depression. Talk therapy was rare (and remains so), and quasi-official policy dissuaded open discussion. ''The Ministry of Health considered 'depression' a bad word,'' Yukio Saito, who helped found Japan's national mental health hotline in 1971, said. For decades, Saito's requests to post hotline ads in public places were routinely denied. 
 Last year, in a volte-face that reflects the shifting cultural tides of the last five years, the Ministry of Health launched a committee to help educate the public about depression. The actress Nana Kinomi talked publicly about her postmenopausal depression in 2000. Other celebrities followed suit. And last month, the Imperial Household Agency acknowledged that Crown Princess Masako is on antidepressants and in counseling for depression and an ''adjustment disorder.'' 
 Over the past five years, according to the Japanese Bookstore Association, 177 books about depression have been published, compared with a mere 27 from 1990 to 1995. Earlier this month, the country's most popular online bulletin board, Channel 2, carried 713 conversation threads about depression -- more than music (582) or food (691) and almost as many as romance (716).
 Depression has gone from bad word to buzzword. ''The media mention depression almost every week,'' said Yutaka Ono, a psychiatrist and professor at Keio University and one of Japan's leading depression experts. People have even come to his office with newspaper in hand, he said, and asked if what they have is depression. Ono has been practicing for 25 years, but, he said, the number of patients who have consulted him about mild depression has surged in the last 4 or 5. Most Japanese epidemiological data doesn't differentiate between degrees of depression, but the Ministry of Mental Health and the leading psychiatrists with whom I spoke agree that mild depression accounts for the vast majority of new cases -- of which there are a staggering number. According to IMS Health, a company that tracks global health care and pharmaceutical information, depression-related doctor vists in Japan increased 46 percent from 1999 to 2003. 
 Disease rates typically increase because more people get sick or because diagnosis and reporting improve. But neither explanation fully accounts for the rise in mild depression in Japan. ''There's no question in my mind that severe clinical depression is a real disease,'' said Arthur Kleinman, a psychiatry professor, chairman of Harvard's anthropology department and co-editor of the definitive work ''Culture and Depression.'' ''I could take you all over the world, and you would have no difficulty recognizing severely depressed people in completely different settings. But mild depression is a totally different kettle of fish. It allows us to relabel as depression an enormous number of things.''
 As the idea of mild depression has gained traction in Japan, it may be that more people haven't gotten sick; they have simply come to define what's ailing them as a disease. Mild depression is not contagious, but it can be considered, in the root sense of the word, communicable -- and for the last five years, the pharmaceutical industry and the media have communicated one consistent message: your suffering might be a sickness. Your leaky vital energy, like your runny nose, might respond to drugs.
Looking back, Naoya Mitake thinks he might have first experienced depression while in college. ''I was about to graduate, and my friends had all been hired by Japanese companies,'' he recalled. ''I couldn't imagine doing that, but I didn't know what else to do.'' He felt incompetent and worthless, unable to make decisions about his future. He might have been depressed back then, but, he said, ''the word never came to mind.''
 Mitake, now 39, steered clear of corporate Japan and instead became an associate professor of comparative politics at Komazawa University. In 2001, he consulted a doctor about his longstanding battles with insomnia and fatigue. The doctor prescribed antidepressants -- a common treatment for insomnia -- but Mitake's sleep didn't improve. (People on antidepressants frequently have to try different pills and dosages before finding an effective treatment.) Meanwhile, Mitake became increasingly anxious, frightened and sad. He stopped taking the first set of antidepressants, and his problems persisted. This time, he said, he knew he was ''extremely depressed.'' 
 Mitake is handsome, warm and articulate. He talked about his experiences with an appealing blend of curiosity and tranquillity, although the emotions he described were far from tranquil. ''I'd wake up in the middle of the night with this strange, strong anxiety,'' he remembered. ''I couldn't be alone. I felt too afraid. I couldn't teach my classes anymore.'' 
 Three months after his mood plummeted, he turned to antidepressants again and felt considerably better but not perfect. For almost two years, he cycled through various pills, with his melancholy waxing and waning. It wasn't until the summer of 2003, when he accidentally discovered a nonmedical treatment of his own, that his depression lifted. 
 In the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual -- the American Psychiatric Association's compendium of mental disorders -- depression is divided into discrete categories. In reality, though, there is no discernible line where moodiness crosses over into mild depression, or mild depression into severe. Moreover, mild depression does not feel mild to those who experience it. When I asked Mitake if his soul had a cold, he laughed, then paused and said he shouldn't have laughed. ''The phrase did some good. It changed people's perception and made depression easier to talk about.''
 In a country famous for its reticence, that is no small achievement -- especially since talking about depression is one effective way to treat it. But counseling is still rare in Japan; in books and speeches, Yutaka Ono has tried to encourage people to discuss their depression with a professional, but, he said, psychotherapy has been far slower to catch on than medication. The current idiom also has its limits: Mitake, for one, said he never uses the expression kokoro no kaze. ''Maybe for some people depression is like a cold,'' he said. ''If so, their colds are a lot worse than mine. Or my depression is a lot worse than theirs.''
 For 1,500 years of Japanese history, Buddhism has encouraged the acceptance of sadness and discouraged the pursuit of happiness -- a fundamental distinction between Western and Eastern attitudes. The first of Buddhism's four central precepts is: suffering exists. Because sickness and death are inevitable, resisting them brings more misery, not less. ''Nature shows us that life is sadness, that everything dies or ends,'' Hayao Kawai, a clinical psychologist who is now Japan's commissioner of cultural affairs, said. ''Our mythology repeats that; we do not have stories where anyone lives happily ever after.'' Happiness is nearly always fleeting in Japanese art and literature. That bittersweet aesthetic, known as aware, prizes melancholy as a sign of sensitivity.
 This traditional way of thinking about suffering helps to explain why mild depression was never considered a disease. ''Melancholia, sensitivity, fragility -- these are not negative things in a Japanese context,'' Tooru Takahashi, a psychiatrist who worked for Japan's National Institute of Mental Health for 30 years, explained. ''It never occurred to us that we should try to remove them, because it never occurred to us that they were bad.''
 The medical model of depression, by contrast, sees suffering as pathological and prescribes a pill in response. That outlook is partly pragmatic: call depression a disease and health insurance covers its treatment.
 Patient advocates also argue that reclassifying depression as a disease helps to diminish its stigma. But probably most important, the pharmaceutical industry has the financial incentive to recast moods as medical problems, creating what Kleinman calls ''a pharmacology of remorse and regret.'' It is, Kleinman said, ''one of the most powerful aspects of globalization, and Japan is at its leading edge.''
In the late 1980's, Eli Lilly decided against selling Prozac in Japan after market research there revealed virtually no demand for antidepressants. Throughout the 90's, when Prozac and other selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or S.S.R.I.'s, were traveling the strange road from chemical compound to cultural phenomenon in the West, the drugs and the disease alike remained virtually unknown in Japan.
 Then, in 1999, a Japanese company, Meiji Seika Kaisha, began selling the S.S.R.I. Depromel. Meiji was among the first users of the phrase kokoro no kaze. The next year, GlaxoSmithKline -- maker of the antidepressant Paxil -- followed Meiji into the market. Koji Nakagawa, GlaxoSmithKline's product manager for Paxil, explained: ''When other pharmaceutical companies were giving up on developing antidepressants in Japan, we went ahead for a very simple reason: the successful marketing in the United States and Europe.''
 Direct-to-consumer drug advertising is illegal in Japan, so the company relied on educational campaigns targeting mild depression. As Nakagawa put it: ''People didn't know they were suffering from a disease. We felt it was important to reach out to them.'' So the company formulated a tripartite message: ''Depression is a disease that anyone can get. It can be cured by medicine. Early detection is important.''
 Like the Bush administration, GlaxoSmithKline has spent the last four years staying relentlessly on-message. Its 1,350 Paxil-promoting medical representatives visit selected doctors an average of twice a week. Awareness campaigns teach general practitioners and the public to recognize the following symptoms of depression (the translation is the company's): ''head feels heavy, cannot sleep, stiff shoulders, backache, tired and lazy, no appetite, not intrigued, feel depressed.'' 
 The psychiatrist Yutaka Ono advocates raising awareness about depression, but GlaxoSmithKline's marketing made him uncomfortable: ''They ran a very intense campaign about mild depression where a beautiful young lady comes out all smiles and says, 'I went to a doctor and now I'm happy.' You know, depression is not that easy. And if it is that easy, it might not be depression.''
 Whatever misgivings Ono and other doctors may have about the medicalization of mild depression, it has been a resounding financial success. As one psychiatrist, Kenji Kitanishi, noted wryly, ''Japanese psychiatry is in the bubble economy now.'' Between 1998 and 2003, sales of antidepressants in Japan quintupled, according to IMS Health. GlaxoSmithKline alone saw its sales of Paxil increase from $108 million in 2001 to $298 million in 2003. According to the company, during one seven-month ad campaign it ran last year, 110,000 people in a population of 127 million consulted their doctors about depression.
 In late 2001, one of those people was Mitake. ''From the things I'd read, I knew about these chemicals in the brain, serotonin and so forth,'' Mitake said. ''And I thought, O.K., this is a chemical phenomenon, so it needs to be cured by a chemical substance.'' In fact, no one understands the etiology of depression, and the role serotonin plays is ambiguous. Ask people with mild depression to explain its origins, and most will offer autobiography, not biochemistry: difficult families, dissolved relationships, demanding jobs. Japanese mental health specialists consistently cite the collapse of the bubble economy and disintegrating social structures as major factors in the nation's soaring depression rates. 
 The idea that depression is a neurochemical malfunction dodges a fundamental chicken-and-egg problem. Screwy neurochemistry can cause depression, but depression can also wreak havoc on your neurochemistry. Likewise, research has shown brain chemistry can change in response to any number of interventions: medication, talk therapy, exercise, prayer. The question, then, isn't whether depression is a biochemical phenomenon; it is. So is the act of formulating a thought. So, in a sense, is sorrow. The question is, What do we gain, and what do we lose, by understanding the darker acts of our brains as diseases?
One side effect of the antidepressants Mitake was taking was weight gain, so in August 2003 he went on a fasting retreat in the mountains. He thought he'd do some reading, but after the fourth day, he recounted: ''You can't even think. You just kind of lie there.'' Toward the end of his fast, Mitake went to a hot spring. ''There I was, totally naked with this breeze blowing and the sun shining, and suddenly I started to feel better,'' he recalled. Mitake credits the fast with ending his depression. ''It's like because I couldn't think for a while, the cycle just broke. All those negative feelings were gone.'' His depression hasn't returned, although on his doctor's advice, he continued to take antidepressants until last month.
 Mitake was quick to sound a cautionary note: ''I don't dare tell my friends with depression, 'Oh, you should go fast.' I tell them to find a good doctor and take medication as prescribed. I really believe the fast is what worked in my case, but I'd never recommend it as a cure.''
 Andrew Solomon, author of ''The Noonday Demon,'' champions antidepressants, but even he ultimately concludes that the best cure is the one you believe in. ''If you have cancer and try an exotic treatment and then think you are better, you may well be wrong,'' he writes. ''If you have depression and try an exotic treatment and think you are better, you are better.'' Yet the medicalization of depression makes it difficult to believe in any treatment but medicine. Rather than expanding options for care for those who suffer, the globalization of psychopharmacology may ultimately sow a monocrop of ideas about health and sickness. 
 Writing about changing understandings of depression in other countries risks romanticizing suffering and other cultures. But not writing about them contributes to a kind of silence already evident in Japan. ''There is this almost invisible pressure that makes it difficult to freely raise questions,'' Saito, one of the founders of Japan's mental health hotline, noted. ''I find myself doubting whether medicalization is a good trend. But being in the position I'm in, needing some support from the medical system, I don't usually make comments like this.''
 Thomas Hardy once noted, ''What we gain by science is, after all, sadness.'' He meant the more we learn about nature, the crueler it seems and the less individual experience matters. The century since he wrote has seen stunning technological advances, but we haven't made much progress figuring out how to integrate science with other ways of understanding what it means to be human. These days, we may lose even sadness. 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by James Whitlow Delano/Redux) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); DEPRESSION (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (77%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (77%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (74%); SUICIDE (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); PHARMACOLOGY (70%) Mental Health and Disorders; Antidepressants; Japanese Language; Depression (Mental); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Mental Health and Disorders

PERSON: Kathryn Schulz

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



482 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Forecasting Hope for Recovery From a Hurricane
The recovery from Hurricane Charley is expected to provide a lift for the economy in Florida as insurance and federal money flows in. ''This is going to be a temporary jolt,'' said one state official. PAGE 12

An Arab 'Idol'
Posters like this one of the Palestinian singer Ammar Hassan are appearing all over the West Bank and Gaza as he competes to become the Arab world's most beloved crooner on a popular Lebanese television program. PAGE 10

Jousting for Absentee Votes
Both parties are preparing aggressive drives for absentee votes in states where polls show voters are almost evenly divided between President Bush and John Kerry. PAGE 16

Impact of the Bryant Case
The issues raised by the Kobe Bryant case have altered how counseling and rape-awareness education is done and how sexual assault victims think about their choices, their prospects of recovery and themselves. PAGE 12

Najaf Fighting Continues
American forces renewed attacks against Iraqi insurgents loyal to the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr on Sunday, but his Mahdi Army appeared to still be in control of the sacred Iman Ali shrine in Najaf. PAGE 4

Merrill's Lingering Problem
Merrill Lynch has paid more than $100 million to settle discrimination and harassment claims filed by over 900 women, but it faces claims from about 40 holdouts that could be even more costly. SUNDAYBUSINESS


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); DISCRIMINATION (68%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (68%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (55%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



483 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2005 Ford Focus ST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: A 2nd Shot at Stardom For a Star-Crossed Car

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

 BODY:
WHEN Ford introduced a high-performance version of its compact Focus in 2002, it achieved something rarely accomplished by American automakers: a small car that was also great fun to drive.
 Of course, it was too good to last. The SVT Focus, which had received its ''tuner'' treatment from the Special Vehicles Team -- Ford's in-house performance-tuning shop -- was discontinued early this year. And the departure of that car, an exceptionally bright spot in a Focus line marred by quality glitches and serial recalls, was another in a series of disappointments for those who had seen great promise in Ford's small car.
 But all is not lost: with the release this year of the 2005 Focus ST, Ford is making amends. While not quite as sharp-edged as the SVT, the new ST is a credible stand-in. 
 And there is more good news on the Focus front. The entire lineup has been revamped for 2005, giving Ford a second chance to satisfy customers disgruntled by problems with the first-generation car. Count me among those who need some convincing, since I have had more than my share of frustrations with the 2000 Focus ZX3 three-door hatchback that I bought in 1999. 
 The Focus arrived in the United States that year after its initial success in Europe. Not only was it practical and roomy, it handled well and was fun to drive. It was, perhaps, a benchmark for low-price front-drive compacts.
 One of its strengths was a suspension that delivered tight handling, a comfortable ride and a remarkable amount of interior space. The price was reasonable, too: my own nicely equipped ZX3 was only $14,500.
 But the car's quality was poor, at least initially. My beloved little Focus turned into a time share -- I settled into joint custody with my local Ford dealer, as the ZX3 shuttled back and forth in an effort to address one recall after another.
 In all, there have been 13 recalls in the 5 years since the car went on sale, including some for such serious matters as under-hood fires and roof pillars that didn't meet federal safety standards. Most of the recalls affected 2000-01 models; there have been no recalls of 2003, 2004 or 2005 models.
 Now, as Ford is bringing out the reworked, more refined line of '05 Focuses, it is admitting past sins and trumpeting quality improvements (although I have yet to see a line of Ford executives bowing to atone for mistakes, as Mitsubishi officials did recently in Japan). 
 There are signs of improvements beyond the promises and hoopla that one might expect from Ford. For instance, until this year Consumer Reports had never given the Focus a ''recommended'' rating because of its poor showing in reliability surveys. But the magazine noted in its April auto issue that the quality of 2004 models had improved to average.
 Ford has also noted the Focus's improvement in the 2004 J.D. Power Initial Quality Survey, which measures customer satisfaction in the first 90 days of ownership. The Focus was seventh in the segment with 112 problems per 100 vehicles, an improvement from 122 problems in 2003. (The average for both the overall industry and for compact cars was 119 problems per 100.)
 The 2005 Focus lineup includes the three-door ZX3 hatchback, the four-door ZX4 sedan, the five-door ZX5 hatchback and the ZXW station wagon. The sporty ST comes only as a sedan. Base prices range from $13,550 for the base ZX3 to $18,250 for the ST and $18,450 for the wagon.
 Ford has updated the car's sharp-edged look, but the changes are more than skin deep. To improve the ride and handling further, Ford installed larger shock absorbers, and it made 15-inch wheels standard on all versions except the ST, which has 16-inchers.
 The interiors are more refined across the lineup. Gone is the kooky pod in the center of the dash that housed the radio and air-conditioning controls. The seat upholstery also has a more expensive look -- no surprise, since the mouse-fur fabric on the early models could hardly have looked cheaper. Functional changes range from improved air flow for the air-conditioning to better cup holders. 
 The enthusiasts' choice, the ST, has a suspension inspired by those in the old SVT Focus and the Focus sold in Europe. The ST's ride closely controls the body motions, such as the lean of the car in a tight turn. But while the ride is not as comfortable as that of my more mainstream ZX3, the engineers have managed a surprisingly compliant and considerate suspension, one that is taut without being stiff. This is a driver's car without a lot of hard edges.
 The steering on the new model is great, a careful balance of feeling, weight and precision. The ST goes into turns without the nose-heavy feeling that characterizes many front-drive cars, making it a surprisingly fun and satisfying companion. 
 The ST is not let down by the engine compartment either. It gets Ford's new 2.3- liter Duratec, a four-cylinder engine that Ford says has more power and less vibration, while producing fewer pollutants. 
 The ST is rated at 151 horsepower and 154 pounds-feet of torque. That means the Duratec 23 has less horsepower but more torque than the SVT.
 But because almost 90 percent of its torque, or pulling power, comes in at a low 2,000 r.p.m., only the most power-crazed enthusiast is likely to feel let down. The ST went from a stop to 60 m.p.h. in 7.9 seconds in testing by Car and Driver magazine, making it only two-tenths of a second slower than the SVT. 
 But enthusiasts might miss the six-speed manual of the defunct SVT, since the ST comes with a five-speed manual only. (Other models offer a four-speed automatic, too.) On the plus side, the new shifter engages gears more precisely.
 Only the ST gets the Duratec 23. Choose a different model (S, SE or SES) and there are two other Duratecs.
 One is a 2-liter engine with 136 horsepower (23 percent more than last year) and lower emissions, according to Ford. 
 The other is a 2-liter PZEV (partial zero emissions vehicle) engine that meets California's very stringent super-ultra-low-emissions standard, and also has almost zero evaporative emissions. This engine, which is standard on all models except the ST in states that adhere to California's clean-air rules (including New York and much of the Northeast), is so clean that it rivals hybrid gas-electric cars in its low emissions of smog-producing pollutants.
 Fuel economy is respectable, too. The ST is rated at 23 m.p.g. in town and 32 on the highway. The other models carry a rating of 26 m.p.g. in town; the highway ratings are 35 m.p.g. with the manual transmission and 32 m.p.g. with the automatic.
 Ford says the 2005 Focuses are also quieter and, compared with my ZX3, the ST was a silent runner. 
 All in all, an impressive package, but the Focus still has some unfortunate historical baggage. In addition to the recalls, some owners have complained that the company has not satisfactorily resolved problems involving two specific, recurring problems: failures of the ignition locks, and fuel pumps on 2000-01 models that tend to clog, causing hesitation or stalling.
 Ford has conceded that it has a problem with the ignition locks, but the company has not ordered a recall. Nor will it replace the lock unless the vehicle cannot be started -- leaving owners stranded.
 As for the fuel pumps, Ford is extending the warranty and replacing the fuel pump, but only after it fails.
 Despite the glitches I've endured, the dynamics of my Focus ZX3 still enchant me -- I actually enjoy the frequent drives back and forth to the dealer -- and the new ST sedan is captivating. As for quality, I only hope that the various signs of improvements will be verified by long-term experience.

INSIDE TRACK: Giving the Focus a new perspective.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The ST sedan is now the hottest Focus, but upgrades have improved all versions. (pg. 1)
 The Focus's dashboard is cleaner and more straightforward. (pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); CELEBRITIES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (76%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (67%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (64%) Automobiles; Reviews

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: Cheryl Jensen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (69%); JAPAN (65%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



484 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Proposed U.S. Base Closings Send a Shiver Through a German Town

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: SCHWEINFURT, Germany, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
At the stroke of 5 on a sun-dappled Friday evening, the Stars and Stripes was lowered by five American soldiers in front of the Ledward Barracks here.
 As always, a bugle called out ''Retreat,'' signaling the end of the military day. For Schweinfurt, one of the largest American bases in Germany, the plaintive notes carry extra meaning these days.
 People here were badly shaken by President Bush's announcement this month that the United States would withdraw up to 70,000 troops from Europe and Asia during the next decade. The First Infantry Division, much of which is based in this tranquil northern Bavaria town, is among the units certain to go. While the Pentagon has not yet announced which bases it will close in the redeployment, locals know that Schweinfurt is on the most endangered list. 
 ''The Germans like to keep up hope,'' said George Ohl, the civilian public affairs officer at Ledward Barracks. ''But they've been taking stock this week. They understand that economically, it will be a big loss.''
 The loss will not fall equally, however. Millions of Germans will scarcely notice the closing of American bases. Others, in towns near the border with the former East Germany, will feel it deeply. This was the fault line of the cold war; the soldiers here would have been the first to meet an invading Soviet Army.
 In Schweinfurt, a city of 55,000 German residents, there are 12,000 American soldiers, family members and civilians working for the Department of the Army. The soldiers support a strip of restaurants, bars and discos, as well as taxi drivers and car dealerships that have taken root on the periphery of Ledward Barracks and its larger neighbor, Conn Barracks.
 With the bulk of Schweinfurt's 4,500 troops on assignment in Iraq since February, these small businesses have gotten a taste of what life will be like after the soldiers leave for good. It is predictably grim.
 ''I have hardly any business,'' said Andrea Ruggeri, a used-car dealer who makes virtually all her sales to the soldiers. ''You can make it through six months without them, but a year is really tough.''
 When the troops are on base, Ms. Ruggeri typically sells eight cars a month, plus auto insurance and personal loans. These days, she is lucky to sell two. Her insurance business has dried up because the soldiers are in Iraq for yearlong tours. Most have let their policies lapse.
 Ms. Ruggeri, 47, figures she has two years to devise an exit plan before the troops leave Schweinfurt forever. One option is to move her dealership near a base that has a better lease on life: Grafenwohr, an Army training ground in eastern Bavaria, is one possibility. Or she might try to go to the United States.
 ''I'd rather stay here,'' Ms. Ruggeri said, looking forlornly at her coffee mug with the inscription, ''We Serve Proudly -- U.S. Army.''
 Schweinfurt's officials would prefer the status quo, too. The Americans typically spend about 25 million euros ($31 million) a year here, roughly 5 percent of the town's total retail sales. The local economy would probably bounce back from that loss. But a stable military presence is a hedge against the vagaries of the other big industry, ball bearings.
 With a jobless rate of 10.2 percent and the second highest percentage of residents on public assistance in Bavaria, Schweinfurt can ill afford an economic downturn like the one in 1992 and 1993, when the manufacturers of ball bearings laid off hundreds of workers.
 For Schweinfurt, though, the biggest headache will be what to do with the abandoned barracks and other buildings. The officials have thought about converting the buildings into public housing, a school or a conference center.
 None of the options are appealing. The town does not need new housing, and the barracks, which were built by the Nazi army in 1933 and taken over by the Americans in 1947, are not ideal for schools.
 ''The current economic situation would make it extremely difficult to convert these facilities,'' said Jurgen Montag, a city official who oversees the town's dealings with the military.
 Moreover, it is not clear how much control the town will have over the bases. After the American forces leave, they will revert to the German federal government, which may have its own ideas.
 During the 1980's and 90's, Germany housed refugees and asylum seekers in former military barracks. Though the country is hardly being inundated with such requests these days, the fear that the bases may become a giant encampment for asylum seekers and other immigrants has taken firm hold in Schweinfurt.
 ''They're going to put foreigners on these bases,'' Ms. Ruggeri said, drawing an apparent distinction between the current, non-German occupants and those who may follow them.
 After nearly 60 years of American presence here, the locals regard the troops as a part of the landscape. Last year, before they were shipped to Iraq, a few soldiers became involved in street brawls and vandalized cars -- an outburst that the authorities attribute to their stress about going to war.
 Other than that, both sides insist that the relationship between town and base has been harmonious -- at times, even a love affair. Of the 300 marriages registered in Schweinfurt last year, more than 10 percent were between an American and a German.
 Like many romantics, Schweinfurt is not ready to give up on its partner. Mr. Montag holds out hope that the military will stay, perhaps rotating troops from other units. 
 He also noted that the Democratic candidate for president, Senator John Kerry, sharply criticized Mr. Bush's plan to withdraw troops, saying it would erode American security. ''Our future partly depends on your election,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: American soldiers on flag detail at their base in Schweinfurt. President Bush has proposed withdrawing thousands of troops from Europe. (Photo by Hans Rudolf Oeser for The New York Times)Map of Germany highlighting Schweinfurt: The military base in Schweinfurt is home to 12,000 Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); CLOSINGS (87%); COLD WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MILITARY TRAINING (73%); INSURANCE (72%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (68%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (68%); NEW CAR DEALERS (68%); USED CAR DEALERS (68%); RESTAURANTS (64%); SMALL BUSINESS (62%) United States Armament and Defense; Military Bases and Installations; Shutdowns (Institutional); United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Unemployment

PERSON: Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: BAVARIA, GERMANY (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%) Germany; Schweinfurt (Germany); Europe; Germany; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



485 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Where There's Smoke, There May Be a $4,000 Grill

BYLINE: By COELI CARR

 BODY:
OVER the Fourth of July weekend, Alan Steel cooked a surf-and-turf meal in the backyard for family and colleagues from work. The food, however, did not hold a Roman candle to the eye-popping method of its preparation. 
 On the patio, steaks sizzled on a deluxe Viking grill with rotisserie, lobsters swirled in a deep-fat turkey fryer that was being used as a seafood boiler, and corn cooked in a pot on one of the grill's side gas burners. Ensconced in a stone bar, the grill carries a price tag of $4,000. 
 The deluxe set-up was part of the vision Mr. Steel shared with his wife, Cathy, from the time they started renovating their home in Greenwich, Conn., several years ago. While the house was shrouded in scaffolding, the couple lugged utensils, plates and various cuts of beef and chicken from the hotel where they were staying to the small Weber charcoal grill on their lawn. 
 ''We were huddling over this little grill, and the whole time he's saying, 'As soon as we've gotten settled in the house, we're getting a more sophisticated grilling environment,''' said Ms. Steel, public relations director at George Little Management, in White Plains, a trade-show production company of which her husband is a co-owner.
 ''I wanted something that allowed me to cook, to cook quickly and efficiently, but also that looked good,'' Mr. Steel said. ''If you have the discretionary income and you like to do it, you tend to want to have the best model. To some extent, it is somewhat of a status symbol. It's like buying the Porsche instead of the Ford. My grill is part of me.''
 Grills, a fixture on the suburban landscape, have become grander in design every year. They are a pop culture reference point that evokes both nurturing and power. 
 ''Grills are powerful, grills got fire, they got flame, you throw the big chunk of meat on there,'' said Kent Rathbun, a grilling aficionado and the chef-owner of Abacus and Jasper's, two restaurants in the Dallas area. ''Let's face it: grills are so serious that they're built for the outside. That's the romance so many people see with the big grill.''
 But good grills are about more than pyrotechnics. ''A grill that is cooking at too low a temperature is the fastest way to ruin a piece of meat,'' said Mr. Rathbun, who, for his home use, owns a Wolf grill, with side burners, that retails for $4,000 to $4,500. 
 The higher the B.T.U. rating, the better the gas grill can sear a steak and seal in the juices. ''The worst thing you can do is put too much meat on a grill, and then the grill cools down, and you're boiling the meat, instead of grilling it,'' Mr. Rathbun said. Deluxe grills have high B.T.U. ratings -- around 25,000; a typical gas range has less than 10,000. 
 The deluxe models, made of stainless steel, offer the home griller another benefit: durability. Lesser models are more prone to damage from rain, snow and dampness. 
 All of this does not come cheap, of course. ''I'm amazed at what grills cost,'' Mr. Rathbun said. ''When you start spending two or three thousand dollars on a grill, that's a major purchase. People buy cars for less than that.''
 Sales of expensive grills have remained strong despite bumps in the economy.
 ''One area of our business that is surprisingly good is luxury grills, which are grills over $1,000,'' said Mike Kempster Sr., executive vice president of the Weber-Stephen Products Company. ''We've seen some significant increases in sales there.'' The company's brands include the well-known Weber as well as Vieluxe, high-end grills that start at $6,000.
 Mr. Kempster said he had noticed that more people were ''grilling salmon or tuna or racks of lamb,'' and not limiting themselves to hamburgers and hot dogs. 
 Bobby Flay, the host of ''Boy Meets Grill'' on the Food Network and author of two grilling cookbooks, agreed, adding that shows about grilling had had a ''huge impact'' on its popularity. ''I'm able to utilize higher-end equipment and more esoteric ingredients, because I know people are more knowledgeable in both those categories,'' he said. 
 Deluxe grilling also reflects consumers' desire to extend the high-end equipment in their kitchens to the patio. The popularity of ''outdoor rooms,'' replete with decks, bars, designer lighting and landscaping, has done a lot to sell more deluxe grills, said Donna Myers, a spokeswoman for the Hearth, Patio and Barbecue Association. 
 Bob Woods, vice president for national sales at Viking, which has been selling deluxe grills for six years, has noticed that more home builders are including deluxe grills in their model homes. They are becoming a ''popular and expected feature'' in new homes, said Mr. Woods, who is based in Garden Grove, Calif.
 Don McCullough, executive vice president of the National BBQ Association, said demand had grown because some people, less interested in travel after the Sept. 11 attacks, were turning backyards into gathering places and entertainment centers. 
 Grilling on deluxe equipment, he said, is becoming less an elitist activity and more a hobby. ''People spend a lot of money on their hobbies,'' he said. Grill accessories include side burners, smoker boxes, warming drawers, remote thermometers, chefs' toques and aprons decorated with chili peppers.
 THE quality of the steel is another important factor for grill shoppers. ''It's the stainless steel that's going to make a difference, and the best is going to be a 304-gauge,'' said Michael Lindblad, chief executive of Barbeques Galore, a specialty chain based in Lake Forest, Calif. Barbeques Galore, with more than 70 stores, mainly in the Sun Belt, manufactures and sells several brands, including its Turbo grills. Poorer-quality stainless, Mr. Lindblad said, will take on a yellow tone when reacting with high heat. He also said consumers should feel the finish of the stainless steel, which, if not cut properly, will have sharp edges. Shoppers should also make sure that any deluxe grill advertised as stainless uses that material in every part of the construction, he said. 
 Consumers who are new to the hobby should also be aware of possible health risks associated with the charring of grilled meat. ''If, while grilling, you char or blacken the surface of food -- meat and even vegetables -- you are likely producing cancer-causing compounds,'' said David L. Katz, director of the Yale-Griffin Prevention Research Center and the author of ''The Way to Eat'' (Sourcebooks, 2004). He encourages keeping those prized grill marks brown in color and not letting them turn black. ''If you avoid charring,'' he said, ''you can enjoy the great taste without threatening your health.'' 
 For many grillers, the food is merely a stepping stone to a state of mind that endures long past summer. 
 Mark Bailey, a Barbeques Galore district manager based in Texas, typically cooks three kinds of turkey for Thanksgiving -- one smoked on the grill under the hood, one fried and one done on the rotisserie. 
 But grilling season doesn't stop then. ''We don't get a lot of snow in Dallas, but the last two years it snowed on New Year's Eve,'' Mr. Bailey said. Undaunted, he and his neighbors sat outside in the snow as the rotisserie turned. ''The grills put out so much heat,'' he said, ''it'll keep you warm.''

QUICK READ

If you are thinking about buying a deluxe grill, here are some questions to consider.

FLAVOR OR CONVENIENCE?
Deluxe grills use gas from propane tanks or a direct gas line, so grillers who love the flavor of meat cooked over wood or charcoal are out of luck.

HOW MANY DINERS?
If you are tired of serving dinner piecemeal because there is not enough room on your grill, a deluxe one with a large surface will help solve the problem.

OTHER COOKING OUTSIDE?
If you like to steam vegetables and make sauces while you grill, you may want a version that includes side burners, or offers them as options.

WHAT IS YOUR BUDGET?
Expect to pay at least $1,000 for lower-end deluxe grill.

HOW OFTEN DO YOU GRILL?
If all you do is toss a handful of burgers and franks on your grill a few times a year, you probably do not need a deluxe model.


GRAPHIC: Photo: When Alan Steel renovated his home in Greenwich, Conn., he installed a $4,000 grill in a stone bar. He says he chose ''the Porsche instead of the Ford.'' (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); BEEF (77%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (73%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (71%); TRADE SHOWS (51%) Ovens and Stoves

COMPANY: GEORGE LITTLE MANAGEMENT INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561920 CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW ORGANIZERS (55%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: Coeli Carr

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



486 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; HABITATS/Crow Hill, Crown Heights; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: It Grows in Brooklyn: It's Not a Tree, but It's Green

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
FOR nearly a year, they owned a full city block in Brooklyn: 135,000 square feet in seven buildings on three tax lots from Franklin Avenue to the elevated Franklin Avenue Shuttle, and from Dean to Bergen Streets. It's an awkwardly beautiful landscape of steel and brick, concrete and cobblestone; a one-story garage is topped by a large, lovely rusted hopper, and other buildings line up at different heights, like jagged teeth in a hobo's mouth. Even the el is poetic, a rough river melody rolling through masonry pastures. 
 Still, Susan Boyle and Benton Brown did not aspire to such vast holdings. Ms. Boyle, who is 31 and has a degree in environmental studies and economics, and Mr. Brown, also 31 and a sculptor with degrees in fine arts and political science, had an idea about renovating an abandoned building into a live-work space, using green technologies and their own sweat equity. A small building, that is, with maybe a little extra space for one tenant. Their renovation has wound up being considerably larger, though not 135,000 square feet. 
 Mr. Brown had already domesticated a loft near the Brooklyn Navy Yard, and as the son of an architect was pretty sanguine about construction. Ms. Boyle was working for Transportation Alternatives, a citizens' group working for better public transit, and was eager to investigate green building practices and sustainable energy sources. 
 But after a year of chasing properties throughout Brooklyn -- one step behind the developers, or a bid too low in the case of a carriage house they loved and lost -- they found themselves facing an elegant, though pigeon-infested, former ice house that, at 14,000 square feet, was somewhat bigger than their idea of home sweet home. And, as comely as it was, its owner, the principal of a moving and storage company, would not detach it in sale from the melange of 19th- and 20th-century structures that crowded about it and stretched away from the el.
 The owner was a nice guy, though, and a trusting one. He allowed them to list for sale all the properties except their ice house and its companion, a 46,000-square-foot brick building on Bergen Street, as they went into contract in 2001. Within 11 months, the other properties were sold to Artopolis, a nonprofit arts organization, and the Community Preservation Corporation, a private mortgage lender of low- to middle-income housing, for nearly the same amount -- about $2.3 million -- as they had paid for the full city block. (Artopolis will develop its new property into 67 artists' co-ops, which will list for about $25 a square foot when they are finished next year, said David Judelson, a director of Artopolis.) 
 This new compound makes a happy addition to Crow Hill, in the northern end of Crown Heights. For seven years, the area has been shaking off decades of neglect, said Sarah Taylor, president of the Crow Hill Association, which has lobbied successfully for new sewers, water lines and roads, new storefronts, trees and, soon, decorative, old-style street lamps. ''It's gorgeous, what they've done,'' she said of Mr. Brown and Ms. Boyle and their renovation. 
 Their first working winter -- 2002-2003 -- in the new space was brutal: drifts of snow sifted through a massive tarp draped hopefully over the hole where the roof used to be -- and where an aerie-like addition would soon sprout. The crew burned scrap wood in metal buckets, heating a brick every hour or so and passing it around. Ms. Boyle bought them all blue insulated Dickies overalls, so they worked like giant Smurfs amid the drifts. They'd hired three friends and three of their moving company's employees and formed a contracting company, Big Sue (bigsuellc@earthlink.net), named for Ms. Boyle. Mr. Brown is from Nashville, and in the habit of attaching a ''Big'' modifier to things he's fond of, Ms. Boyle said. (The preamble to that winter was eventful, too: they were married on Sept. 15, 2001, amid civic turmoil, and while wrangling permits, variances and cash.) 
 After demolishing the insides of both buildings all the way to the brick walls, the construction was precise and sometimes high-tech, to create six lofty apartments and one-ground floor studio in the ice house using as much recycled material as possible, and employing green technologies that Mr. Brown and Ms. Boyle researched. (The renovation of the second building, into commercial space, is just beginning.)
 Mr. Brown drew the plans, which were edited and stamped by an engineer. The apartments, some on two levels, range between 1,100 and 1,450 square feet, and will rent for $1,650 to $1,950 a month starting in October. Their own apartment, as modishly gritty as the others -- a play of steel and brick and encompassing the roof addition -- is about 3,000 square feet. 
 The building's own timber, harvested from 300 massive beams, was repurposed for flooring, shelves, and door and window frames -- and an 11-by-5-foot island in their own open kitchen. They bought recycled claw-foot bathtubs and pedestal sinks from a local architectural salvage company.
 Radiant heat fixtures are laid under glazed concrete floors constructed from fly ash (a byproduct of burning coal); solar panels on the new roof provide as much as 50 percent of the building's energy.
 As cities grapple with the benefits of green building, state and federal agencies have begun offering incentives. Mr. Brown and Ms. Boyle have been awarded a $75,000 Keyspan ''Cinderella'' grant for green technologies, a $2,500 award from the New York City Green Building Design competition, and a $28,000 grant from the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority. They are awaiting certification from the United States Green Buildings Council and have begun work as consultants on other green-building projects.
 The only consultant they called on was Katrin Scholz-Barth, a specialist in planting green roofs. These are a delight, planted with alpine sedum and, on the topmost roof, interspersed with lavender, chives and thyme. Their moisture-holding leaves, which make them nearly maintenance free, save sewers from being overtaxed by the run-off of new developments; the spiky carpets can lower the temperature of a building -- and a neighborhood -- by seven degrees or more.
 The couple agreed early on to hash out every construction detail, aspiring to an aesthetic and marital democracy. Their living quarters flaunt casement windows on one side and double-hung mullioned ones on the other: his and her windows. ''I'm the casement guy,'' Mr. Brown said.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 29, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The Habitats column last Sunday, about a converted ice house in Brooklyn, misstated the price for artists' co-ops to be built next door by Artopolis, a nonprofit group. It is $250 a square foot, not $25. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: FROM ICE HOUSE TO NICE HOUSE -- Susan Boyle and Benton Brown in their 3,000-square-foot apartment near the elevated Franklin Avenue Shuttle. (Photographs by Laurie Lambrecht for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (74%); GREEN BUILDING (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (74%); SCULPTURE (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); PACKING & MOVING SERVICES (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (50%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (50%) Housing; Biographical Information; Restoration and Rehabilitation

COMPANY: COMMUNITY PRESERVATION CORP (62%)

PERSON: Penelope Green; Susan Boyle; Benton Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



487 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Entrepreneurial Success via the Internet

BYLINE: By David Koeppel. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IT took the death of his business partner at 21 last November for Josh Mohrer to get serious about trying to make their fledgling internet business a success. 
 Mr. Mohrer, now 22, and Elie Schwartz met as 12-year olds, and forged a friendship that took them from summer camp to ''Rational Fashion,'' the online business they started last year when they were in college.
 It was not only Mr. Schwartz's youth but the circumstances of his death that shocked Mr. Mohrer and everyone who knew them. He is said to have taken hallucinogenic mushrooms at an off-campus party and accidentally fallen from a third-story window. 
 ''Josh transmuted a tragedy into personal and business growth,'' says Jay Michaelson, 34, a friend and mentor and a founder of Wasabi Systems, a technology company based in Norfolk, Va. ''He could have easily folded the business, but he didn't.''
 Mr. Mohrer, a 2004 graduate of a joint degree program at Columbia University and the Jewish Theological Seminary, decided to continue building a company that primarily sells Ralph Lauren Polo shirts and other designer clothes on eBay and its own Rationalfashion.com Web site. As its sole employee, Mr. Mohrer runs most aspects of the business from his one-room apartment on the Upper West Side. 
 Mr. Mohrer became a math major to stand out from the pack of business students, and traveled the world as part of an a cappella band that performed Jewish folk music. Rational Fashion's flexibility allows him daily bike rides in Central Park and occasional business conducted at Starbucks.
 While Rational Fashion began in earnest last summer, Mr. Mohrer has devoted most of his time to it only since graduation. He has become an eBay gold power seller, a prestigious rank among merchants who do high-volume business and get overwhelmingly positive feedback from customers.
 ''I got a note from a customer that said 'Tell Josh in customer service he's doing a great job,''' he recalled. ''I don't tell them Josh is only one guy. Some people prefer to see it as a big operation. Not some kid in New York.''
 That ''kid from New York,'' who grew up in Queens, derives inspiration from the computer mogul Michael Dell, who also started his business in modest circumstances.
 MR. MOHRER estimates that Rational Fashion's sales in its first full year of business should total about $165,000, an average of $14,000 per month. Since graduation, he has averaged less than that: $10,000 in May, $11,000 in June, $8,000 in July and $12,000 from July 15 to Aug. 15.
 When he and Mr. Schwartz started selling clothes online in 2003, they were part of a new wave of entrepreneurs, according to a study published by researchers at Babson College. After two years of decline, entrepreneurial activity increased from 10.5 percent in 2002 to 11.9 percent in 2003.
 The researchers discovered that many of the start-ups were similar to Rational Fashion. Most were replicating existing goods or service businesses, with fewer than five employees. Forty percent of the owners were self-employed and 15.7 percent were men between the ages of 25 to 34.
 But there are plenty of advantages to youth, according to Suzanne Isack, the director of the National Institute for Entrepreneurship, a group that works with college and universities to promote entrepreneurial endeavors.
 ''I think it's important to balance idealism and passion for what they're doing, peppered with just enough realism,'' Ms. Isack tells young entrepreneurs like Mr. Mohrer.
 Bruce Weinberg, an associate professor of marketing and e-commerce at Bentley College in Waltham, Mass., believes that selling online is a great way for an entrepreneur to begin a career. He said that overhead for businessmen like Mr. Mohrer was low and that the apparel industry, one of the hottest sectors, was expected to gross between $10 billion and $12 billion in 2004.
 Mr. Mohrer is already thinking about the future. He would like to entice brick and mortar businesses to use him as a middleman, to sell their goods online. Rational Fashion would ''generate revenue through some kind of commission,'' and the businesses would benefit from his customer base and impressive eBay feedback ratings.
 He is also considering using his present business model to venture into another market, or even to work as a consultant or to earn an M.B.A. What he says he will never do is run his own brick and mortar store.
 ''That's never going to happen,'' he said. ''It's the opposite of what I want to do. It's irrational.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Josh Mohrer, 22, a 2004 college graduate, runs Rational Fashion, an online operation that sells men's designer clothes. His business partner died in November at age 21. (Photo by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); FASHION DESIGNERS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); MUSIC (69%); RELIGION (67%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (62%) Apparel; Computers and the Internet; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%) Rational Fashion (Co)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (56%); MICHAEL DELL (53%) David Koeppel; Josh Mohrer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



488 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: At Troubled Adult Home, a Troubled New Boss

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
Ocean House, a 125-bed repository of last resort for New York City's impoverished mentally ill, and its dispiriting history are not all that remarkable in the world of the state's adult homes.
 Eight years ago, its operator went to prison for stealing residents' money and using the accounts of the home, which is in Queens, as a personal million-dollar slush fund. The state then inexplicably let his brother-in-law, a disgraced lawyer with no mental-health credentials, take over. Last month, he pleaded guilty to a scheme to steal more than $2 million from the home. 
 And now, though the Pataki administration has vowed to reform the state's adult home system, the new operator it installed at Ocean House also has a checkered background. The adult home he runs in Albany was recently cited by inspectors for violations that endangered residents, and last fall, officials seized two nursing homes he operated in Connecticut after charging widespread financial malfeasance, including the mishandling of residents' and workers' money. 
 Connecticut officials are conducting a civil inquiry into the nursing homes and the operator, Meyer Weber. Asked about Mr. Weber, the Connecticut attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, said in an interview, ''Our experience with his nursing homes in Connecticut would give us great reservations about his operating any other homes.''
 The change at Ocean House raises concerns about the Pataki administration's commitment to ensure that competent operators of good character run the adult homes, an issue that arose decades ago after the state drastically scaled back its psychiatric wards and had nowhere to place discharged patients. 
 More than 100 privately run adult homes in New York State shelter 15,000 mentally ill people, and the system has long been troubled. Residents who are so ill that they are unable to dress themselves wander the halls at all hours unsupervised, janitors are sometimes discovered distributing medication, and state regulation has often proven lax. 
 For years, residents died under questionable circumstances without any inquiries by the state, and negligent operators went unpunished. Mental-health experts portray the homes as little more than psychiatric flop houses.
 Asked whether it had reviewed Mr. Weber's record and was aware of what had happened in Connecticut, the State Health Department said through a spokesman, Robert Kenny, that Mr. Weber had been granted only a temporary license at Ocean House and that his application for a permanent one was pending. Mr. Kenny acknowledged the problems at Mr. Weber's Albany home, Pearl of Wisdom.
 ''We are concerned with the investigative findings in our latest inspection of the Pearl of Wisdom adult home, and we continue to closely monitor the situation to ensure that residents are receiving quality service and care,'' he said. ''We are now completing an extensive review of the latest surveillance in the case, as well as the temporary operator's (Weber's) track record as an operator of health care facilities in other states. This information will serve as a significant factor in our decision.''
 The department allowed Mr. Weber to take over the Albany home in November 2003, a month after officials in Connecticut had taken over his nursing homes there, records show. Two months ago, New York inspectors issued a scathing report on the 88-bed Albany home, charging that its medication practices were so inept and disorganized that residents' lives were in danger. One resident, for example, missed 28 doses of a drug used to treat seizures. Despite the report, Mr. Weber was installed at Ocean House this month.
 A reporter who went to Ocean House last week to survey conditions was escorted from the home by Mr. Weber and one of the home's supervisors, who said they would not allow a visit. The supervisor also made clear to a resident being interviewed that the resident should end the interview, which he immediately did.
 In front of the home, which is on Heyson Road in Far Rockaway not far from the beach, Mr. Weber said he would not discuss his record. ''You will have to deal with my attorney,'' he said.
 His lawyer, M. Joshua Aber, also would not respond to questions about Mr. Weber's record. Asked about Mr. Weber's qualifications, Mr. Aber said, ''He's presented them to the state and they have reviewed them.''
 State officials in Connecticut had no such reluctance to talk about Mr. Weber, who ran the nursing homes there with another operator. Last fall, the officials took the unusual step of getting a court order to seize the homes, Coleman Park in Bridgeport, which has 123 beds, and Rosewood in Waterbury, which has 84 beds. They documented what they said were numerous financial problems that left the two homes near collapse and jeopardized ''the health, safety and welfare'' of residents.
 According to court records, the homes had more than $3 million in liabilities, issued paychecks that bounced, and failed to pay property taxes, utilities and vendors. Investigators charged that tens of thousands of dollars in residents' accounts had been transferred to the homes' operating accounts and that the homes collected money from workers for health insurance without providing coverage.
 At one point, Connecticut Light and Power asked the Connecticut Department of Public Health to move residents from Rosewood because it wanted to cut off its electricity because of unpaid bills, the records show. Money was then apparently paid to keep the power on.
 Workers at Coleman Park told the state that they even used their own money to pay for health care supplies like gloves and adult diapers.
 ''The nursing homes were financial wrecks,'' Mr. Blumenthal, the attorney general, said.
 Brian Courtney, a Connecticut lawyer representing Mr. Weber in the nursing home cases, said his client disputed some of the allegations but ultimately agreed to the state takeover. He blamed the Connecticut state government for many of Mr. Weber's problems, saying that it had not provided sufficient Medicaid money to run nursing homes that served needy populations.
 ''I am not aware that there were ever any issues with patient care,'' Mr. Courtney said. ''We are talking about dollars here. They were wonderful operators as far as I know. They did their best trying to manage these homes in a very difficult economic climate.'' He said any money transferred from residents' accounts had been restored.
 Still, the allegations against the homes would resonate with anyone who has examined the history of Ocean House. In two reports nearly a decade apart, a New York State watchdog agency, the Commission on Quality of Care for the Mentally Disabled, has documented a sweeping array of misdeeds at the home.
 The first report, issued in 1992 when the home was called Hi-Li Manor, was titled, ''Exploiting the Vulnerable.'' The report said the home's operator, Beryl Zyskind, improperly diverted millions of dollars in revenue from the home, which is technically a nonprofit entity. The money went to investments, interest-free loans, excessive salaries, tuition payments for relatives, jewelry and furs, the report said. Mr. Zyskind also stole $120,000 from a resident who had received the money in back veteran's benefits. As a result of the report, Mr. Zyskind was convicted on federal charges and sentenced to 30 months in prison. His brother-in-law, Sherman Taub, then took over, though he was a lawyer who had resigned from the bar after being accused of billing his law clients $232,000 for his personal expenses.
 Mr. Taub renamed the home Ocean House and wasted little time in following in Mr. Zyskind's footsteps, according to court records and a second report by the quality of care commission. That report, issued in December 2001, detailed how Mr. Taub had engaged in a scheme to siphon more than $2 million from the home through improper mortgage transactions and other maneuvers.
 All the while, inspectors said, conditions at Ocean House were among the worst in New York. They found rooms infested with cockroaches, residents sleeping on soiled sheets, the kitchen floor rotted and widespread hazardous conditions because of a dilapidated structure and poorly supervised renovations.
 After pleading guilty in July in a case brought by the Manhattan district attorney's office, Mr. Taub is facing one to three years in prison.
 At Ocean House, residents said Mr. Taub would not be missed. ''You would say hello to him, and he would not even acknowledge that you were there,'' said a resident, Gary Levin. 
 Others said that whatever Mr. Weber's record, they wanted changes, especially more security. They said that at night, strangers entered the home, dealt drugs and drank alcohol, making some residents afraid to leave their rooms.
 ''Things have been getting more and more broken down here,'' said Ernest Nelson, vice president of the residents council. ''We all hope that he is going to improve things.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Meyer Weber, who operates a home for the mentally ill, said last week that he would not discuss his record. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CARE (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); NURSING HOMES (88%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); EMBEZZLEMENT (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); INTERVIEWS (66%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%) Mental Health and Disorders; Embezzlement; Mental Health and Disorders

ORGANIZATION: Health Department (NYS); Ocean House (NYC)

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (51%) Clifford J Levy; George E (Gov) Pataki; Meyer Weber

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



489 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1605 words

HEADLINE: Delegates In, Commuters Out

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN

 BODY:
WHEN Amy Walsh of Commack heard a few months ago that the Republican National Convention would be held at Madison Square Garden beginning Aug. 30, she quickly booked her vacation for that week.
 ''I'm going to Cancun to stay away from the convention,'' Ms. Walsh, a legal secretary for Icahn Associates at Fifth Avenue and 59th Street, said as she waited at the Deer Park railroad station one recent morning for the 7:47 to Penn Station. ''I'm concerned about the commute and the fact that there might be some terrorist acts. I'm scared.'' 
 Ms. Walsh said she was furious that the convention was being held in the city. ''They shouldn't be doing this in New York,'' she said. ''It's a very bad decision. Why pick us after everything we've been through? Why put us in that position?'' 
 The terrorists aren't talking and the anti-government protesters who will descend on the city are being vague. The job of the security personnel is clear: to prevent the other two groups from disrupting the convention and the web of business and transportation that surrounds the Garden. But no matter which of the three groups has the greatest impact when the convention comes, it seems inevitable that travel into and around Midtown will be a headache, and many Long Islanders are planning to avoid it. 
 In interviews with 19 commuters who take the Long Island Rail Road to Manhattan, only one said he was planning to go to work that week as usual through Penn Station. Five others said they would be working in the city that week but would avoid Penn Station, which is under Madison Square Garden, by changing to the subway in Jamaica, Queens, or in downtown Brooklyn.
 But most commuters said they were going on vacation or planned to work from home or from their company's Long Island offices. 
 ''I'm basically working from home, on the computer and the phone,'' said Neil Margolies of Dix Hills, who works in the garment district. ''You have to be crazy to go in. I'm not going into that ridiculous problem that's going to occur. There are going to be enormous problems in walking out the right exits at Penn Station.''
 He was referring to the Aug. 30-Sept. 2 closure of four of the six entrances to Penn Station. All access will be through the entrances at 32nd Street and Seventh Avenue and at 34th Street just west of Seventh Avenue.
 James Dermody, president of the Long Island Rail Road, said he had been assured that there would be plenty of police officers ''to blanket the place'' and declared, ''Penn Station is going to be the safest place in the City of New York.''
 People may be safe and still face big delays getting to work, but Mr. Dermody said there would also be railroad employees on hand to help direct crowds. ''We have made detailed plans in order to have customer assistance and crowd control to get people to their trains as conveniently as possible with little or no extra time,'' he said. 
 Mr. Dermody noted that the railroad put a flyer and a wallet-size map of Penn Station on every seat to explain which entrances will remain open. And he said there would be new directional signs posted in Penn Station for L.I.R.R. passengers as well as for Amtrak and New Jersey Transit riders who face the same restricted access to the station.
 Mr. Dermody said that the week before the Labor Day weekend is usually a heavy vacation week anyway. ''We've been looking at travel patterns for that week and I don't think there will be major problems other than if there is a security problem like an unidentified package,'' he said. ''We have campaigns on now asking customers and employees that if they see something, say something. It is trying to get everyone in the frame of mind to be secure and not to leave their own packages unattended.''
 Delays may begin well before Penn Station, because every train bound for Midtown will be searched by the police before it begins its run. The police will ride every train into the city and additional officers -- some with bomb-sniffing dogs -- may board at Jamaica or Woodside.
 But Mr. Dermody said the plan was to have ''enough manpower around to minimize delay.'' 
 ''And if there is a delay,'' he added, ''we'll have enough customer information assistance people around to let customers know what is going on, whether in New York or other areas. We are trying to make it as seamless as possible for our commuters.''
 Few commuters are mollified.
 Kathy Rupp of St. James said she arranged her vacation for convention week because the city ''is going to be a nightmare.''
 ''I think the commute is going to be terrible,'' she said. ''It's not that I think there is going to be a terrorist attack, but the protests and stuff like that are going to make it very difficult to maneuver through this town.''
 Ms. Rupp, who works at a law firm in Midtown, said she planned to spend the week with her family on Long Island, either at home or on day trips nearby. And that in turn might help the Long Island economy.
 ''If you take a vacation and spend time on Long Island, you might be a tourist in your own backyard, maybe going to Long Island's art galleries or vineyards,'' said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, a business group. ''And if you work from home, you might go to a local restaurant for lunch or take your wife out for dinner.''
 Some Manhattanites are also planning to go to the Island to escape the hubbub. Barry Shatoff, general manager of the Southampton Inn, said some guests were booking rooms during the convention expressly to avoid subway disruptions, street demonstrations and crowded restaurants. But Mike Johnston, president of the Long Island Hotel Association, said hotel bookings for the week were not unusually high.
 More of what Dr. Kamer called the ''back-door impact'' might come from a rise in retail purchases by those staying on the Island.
 Janine Nebons, a spokeswoman for the Tanger Outlet Center in Riverhead, said that for the last two weeks it ran advertisements in the city designed to lure New Yorkers -- particularly those who have second homes on the Island -- to its 168 stores, the vast majority of which are manufacturers' outlets.
 ''I think a lot of people knew the convention was coming and they shifted their plans to try to stay out of the city,'' she said, pointing out that the number of bus reservations by groups going to the center from Brooklyn and Queens is higher for that week than it was during the comparable period in prior years.
 Ms. Nebons said that the week before Labor Day weekend was already one of the biggest sale weeks of the year because of the annual tax-free week Aug. 31 through Sept. 6 on all clothing and shoes up to $110. Both the state and Suffolk County are participating in the tax-free week; Nassau isn't.
 The Long Island Convention & Visitors Bureau and Sports Commission is trying to attract some of the 4,800 Republican delegates and alternates to visit Long Island before they return home.
 Gloria Rocchio, the group's chairwoman, said e-mail messages were being sent to all of the delegates telling them of some of the special trip packages that had been arranged for them. In addition, each delegate will receive a package in his or her hotel room from the bureau that contains its travel guide to Long Island and further details about such attractions as a day trip to Stony Brook or to the annual Shinnecock Pow-Wow in Southampton.
 ''I believe they would come after the convention rather than before, and I don't believe they can come during the convention because security is going to be so tight,'' Ms. Rocchio said.
 Any delegates who make it out to the Island will have plenty of company. One commuter who declined to give his name said that his office is above 2 Penn Station and that his company is allowing him to work from home because he feared ''it's going to be crazy here.''
 ''I have an office in my home with a cable hookup to the office,'' he said. ''I'm also planning to hold business meetings outside of the office.''
 Edward J. Brucia of Stony Brook, vice president of Bradley Marketing Group, said that because his Midtown office might be difficult to get to as a result of anticipated street closures, the company's five employees who live on Long Island would be permitted to work from the company's Hauppauge office.
 ''We've decided that unless there is an emergency, we'll handle our accounts out here,'' he said as he walked from the parking lot to the Deer Park station.
 But staying on Long Island is not a choice for Frank Pomarico of Dix Hills, a consultant for Citigroup.
 ''As a consultant I don't get paid if I don't go to work,'' he said.
 He said he planned to take the E subway train from Jamaica rather than ride into Penn Station as usual.
 Kristina Hinckson of Massapequa, an administrative assistant in Manhattan, said she planned to change at Jamaica for the train to Brooklyn during the convention week. She said she had thought of taking the week off, ''but I'm going to be brave and stick it out.''
 ''I don't want the terrorists to totally derail my normal daily routine,'' she said. 
 Asked if she was more concerned with terrorism than congestion, Ms. Hinckson replied, ''Yes, because I really think that the Republican convention could be an attractive terrorist target.''
 But Wendy S. Delmater of Bay Shore, who said she planned to avoid Penn Station and had been trying different subway and bus alternatives to get to her job as a safety manager for Total Safety Consulting on Staten Island, said her main concern was gridlock. 
 ''It's not that I don't think it will be safe,'' she said. ''The problem is that it's going to be a zoo.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: L.I.R.R. commuters braving Penn Station during the Republican National Convention will be able to use only this entrance from 32nd Street and Seventh Avenue and the one near the corner of 34th and Seventh. (Photo by Scott Eells for The New York Times)(pg. 5)Drawing (Drawing by David Klein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (88%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (67%) Presidential Election of 2004; Railroads; Commuting; Conventions, National (US)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (54%) Long Island Rail Road Co

PERSON: Stewart Ain

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Long Island (NY); New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



490 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; LONG ISLAND VINES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Battle Lines Are Drawn Over Merlot

BYLINE: By HOWARD G. GOLDBERG

 BODY:
A DEBATE about image that could have far-reaching consequences for Long Island's wine industry is brewing among major producers.
 A handful of winemakers and executives, representing their wineries' owners, have begun forming a trade organization, the East End Merlot Alliance, that would promote merlot as the Island's premier grape and wine.
 Opponents call their mission too narrow and possibly commercially harmful and say that the region's 35 producers, represented by the Long Island Wine Council, should continue to emphasize the diversity of their red and white wines. The issue arose in the council last week. 
 The nascent merlot alliance consists of Raphael, Bedell and Pellegrini on the North Fork and Wolffer on the South Fork. 
 Early dissenters, who are not organized, are Paumanok, Palmer, Lenz and Castello di Borghese (successor of the Hargrave Vineyard, which started the industry in 1973) on the North Fork. 
 Commenting as an owner of Castello di Borghese, and not the council, of which he is president, Marco Borghese said he preferred an islandwide marketing policy that generally emphasized that ''we are growing French vinifera grapes successfully.'' But expressing a live-and-let-live sentiment, he also allowed that anything that drew attention to the region ''would be fantastic.''
 Mr. Borghese said he could not tell if an alliance would fracture the council and its broad-based membership and promotional interests.
 Richard Olsen-Harbich, Raphael's winemaker and managing director, and a newcomer, Trent Preszler, Bedell's vice president of operations, fathered the alliance idea.
 With 26 years of winegrowing experience on the Island, Mr. Olsen-Harbich carries weight among his colleagues. He was pivotal in researching, drafting and lobbying for the federal regulations establishing the Island's three American Viticultural Areas, or appellations.
 Mr. Preszler, who holds a master's degree in agricultural economics from Cornell University. His master's thesis, published in 2002, is about marketing New York wines in New York City, where East End wines struggle for acceptance among retailers, restaurateurs and consumers.
 Both men have drafted an introductory letter, to be mailed soon, inviting East End wineries to join the group. Asserting that the alliance would complement and not compete with the council, the signers find Long Island's image at a crossroads. 
 ''Our ability to sell premium wines to a sophisticated audience is no longer inhibited by the quality of our wines or age of our vines,'' they say. ''Instead, we face price resistance and consumer confusion resulting from the lack of a focused brand identity.''
 The alliance, they say, would address this problem ''by answering the question, 'What do we do best?''' It would share ''a common belief in the East End'' as ''the No.1 merlot appellation in the New World'' and would emphasize ''self-regulated quality standards.'' 
 Citing Oregon pinot noir and Napa cabernet sauvignon, the founders say: ''We believe the proper way to develop our reputation is to follow the example of other great wine regions and promote one varietal. We believe this focus on one varietal does not take away from our excellence in various other wines.'' 
 They observe that merlot is the only red grape that achieves complete ripeness yearly. Cornell research, they say, ''shows that the East End's climate and soil topography'' is similar ''to that of Bordeaux -- the No.1 merlot-producing region in the world.''
 Conventional wisdom holds that another Bordeaux grape, cabernet franc, could rival merlot locally. But the letter says, ''We do not believe cab franc possesses the consistency, character or long-term consumer interest to merit a regional flagship marketing focus.''
 About 3,000 acres on the Island are covered with vines, of which at least 666 are merlot and 209 are cabernet franc, the council estimates.
 Among those signing the invitation to join were Peggy Lauber, Bedell's executive vice president for sales and marketing; Roman Roth, Wolffer's winemaker and general manager; Russell Hearn, Pellegrini's winemaker; and Benjamin Sisson, Raphael's vineyard manager. Their estates, particularly Raphael, have deep stakes in merlot.
 Dissenting, Charles Massoud, a Paumanok owner, said that seeking to transform their estates' dominant interest into the region's marquee identity ''could be seen as self-serving and divisive.''
 ''A marketing strategy that would try to promote our region as a merlot region is shortsighted, is based on bad marketing and factually incorrect,'' he said. Acknowledging that ''merlot does very well,'' he argued that other grapes ''do as well, if not better, sometimes.'' 
 Urging public debate, Mr. Massoud said: ''Gambling our region's reputation on merlot is not a risk worth taking. Ten years ago, had we been thinking this way, we might have tried to be seen as a chardonnay region. With the rug being pulled out from under the chardonnay market, it would not look smart today if we had done that, even though we have some wonderful chardonnay grown out here. Many restaurateurs have told me they see a softening in the demand for merlot and a firming up of demand for red blends and cabernet sauvignon and syrah.''
 Mr. Massoud would prefer a council campaign that emphasized the Island's wine spectrum. About 30 types of grapes are farmed locally, he said, ''and we can point to an excellent wine made from almost each and every one.'' He singled out such reds as syrah, cabernet sauvignon and pinot noir and such whites as chenin blanc and riesling (both strong Paumanok suits), pinot blanc, sauvignon blanc and gewurztraminer. 
 Robert J. Palmer, a Palmer Vineyards owner who has spent a lifetime in advertising and marketing, found the alliance approach ''too limiting'' and wondered: ''Why build yourself into a corner? People do this all the time in marketing, and sometimes you are stuck with it.'' Merlot's high point on the Island has passed, he said, and he plans to uproot four acres of merlot vines and plant chardonnay.
 Lenz considered joining, and Eric Fry, its winemaker, signed the group's letter. But later Peter Carroll, an owner, felt skeptical about the prospective content and enforceability of quality controls and said he preferred to let market forces define the region's representative wines. 
 Mr. Olsen-Harbich said he was not daunted by the prospect that merlot might decline in favor, as wines do cyclically. ''The wine of the day is going to change,'' he predicted. ''But climate and soil are not going to change, at least that quickly. Frankly, I don't care what the market does. I am looking at it from a wine-quality perspective.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Merlot grapes at Bedell Cellars in Cutchogue, a member of a nascent merlot alliance. (Photo by Michael Croteau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (91%); WINERIES (91%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); HORTICULTURE (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); BEVERAGE PRICES (78%); BRANDING (67%); AGRICULTURE (66%); LOBBYING (63%); RETAILERS (60%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines

PERSON: Howard G Goldberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



491 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: What Drives Consumer Confidence?

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
WITH crude oil near $50 a barrel, consumer confidence could be in for a big hit. James E. Glassman, senior United States economist at J.P. Morgan, thinks otherwise. 
 ''My gasoline station manager didn't know that the price of oil was near $50 a barrel,'' Mr. Glassman said. ''He just knows what the oil company charges him for gasoline when the delivery truck pulls up each night.'' That price has been dropping. 
 The national average price of a gallon of midgrade gasoline reached $2.155 in May. It has since dropped to $1.97, according to the Department of Energy.
 Consumer confidence had already been weakened by gasoline prices, Mr. Glassman said, and has actually recovered. ''The good news is that this is probably already behind us,'' he said.
 In May -- the month of gasoline's recent price peak -- the University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment dropped 4.2 percent, to 90.2, from 94.2 in April. It bounced back to 96.7 in July and then fell to 94 in the preliminary confidence report for August. 
 And the forecast is that the index will stay at that level when the final figure is reported on Friday, according to Bloomberg News. 
 But while oil and gasoline may not be major factors in setting consumer confidence right now, job growth may be, depending on the message consumers are receiving.
 In May, the Conference Board's consumer confidence index, the other consumer barometer on which financial markets focus, was unchanged as a pickup in job growth offset the climb in gasoline prices, according to Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board's research center. 
 By July, the Conference Board index had risen for four consecutive months and was at its highest since June 2002. 
 ''The spring turnaround has been fueled by gains in employment, and unless the job market sours, consumer confidence should continue to post solid numbers,'' Ms. Franco said in the July news release.
 So what did the consumer hear about jobs? That only 32,000 payroll jobs were created in July, as reported by the Labor Department? Or that 629,000 jobs were added, based on its household survey?
 ''Consumers paid attention to the weaker payroll report for July,'' said Richard T. Curtin, director of surveys of consumers at the University of Michigan. And that helped to drag down the consumer sentiment level in Michigan's preliminary confidence report for August.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Gasoline Price''Graph tracks the gasoline price, medium grade avg., in 2004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); GAS STATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); JOB CREATION (64%); MARKETING SURVEYS (58%) United States Economy; Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



492 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: The Rush to Buy A Piece of Paradise

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS GRUDIN

DATELINE: MAUI, Hawaii 

 BODY:
FROM the pool of their six-bedroom home on Keawakapu Beach, Doug and Mary Hajjar enjoy a sweeping view of three islands, uninterrupted but for some lanky palms. In 1997, they spent about $5 million building the winter getaway, complete with an aqua shingle roof, a winding glass staircase and a 60-inch TV that retracts into the family room floor. In today's market, the 6,000-square-foot home would command up to $15 million.
 The Hajjars, who first visited Maui while he was stationed in Vietnam, have an almost identical home in Cape Cod, Mass., but the Maui mansion is their favorite. 
 ''We think we have one of the best places in the world,'' said Mr. Hajjar, who made his fortune starting and selling technology companies in Silicon Valley. ''The weather is incredible and the beach is spectacular. Twice now we've seen whales give birth right in front of the house, just 50 or 100 yards off the shore.''
 The Hajjars are not alone in their good fortune. Since 1998, a gold rush mentality has taken hold of Maui's housing market -- which now has more licensed Realtors than available listings -- and its prospectors have been handsomely rewarded. The median price of a home on the island jumped from $265,000 in the first seven months of 1998 to $539,000 during the same period this year, according to figures compiled by the Realtors Association of Maui. And coveted beachfront properties like the Hajjars' have increased by even higher multiples. 
 ''It's pervasive; the real estate market has been booming in all ends,'' said Leroy Laney, a professor of finance and economics at Hawaii Pacific University and an economic consultant for First Hawaiian Bank. ''There was a good bit of pent-up demand here, locally as well as offshore.''
 While Hawaii home prices have climbed steadily in recent years, the trend has been most pronounced on Maui, the second-largest island, blessed with some of the most coveted beaches in the world as well as a wide variety of other attractions. From the posh shorefront resorts, to the rainy bamboo forests of Hana, to the 10,000-foot Haleakala Crater, the Valley Isle, as the island is also known, is a vaunted destination for golfers and retirees as well as naturalists and adventurers.
 Capitalizing on the exposure from tourism, Maui's real estate market seems finally to be catching up to its priceless beauty, spurred on by many of the same factors that have pushed some mainland housing prices to record levels: low interest rates, the retirement of wealthy baby boomers and a limited supply of property, according to Paul H. Brewbaker, chief economist for Bank of Hawaii. ''A number of these elements started to come together in the late 90's and the timing was right for realignment and renewed appreciation,'' he said.
 Bob Cella is another beneficiary of Maui's boom. In 1995, the Philadelphia native bought Coldwell Banker of Maui. The company's 11 agents sold about $50 million worth of property in 1996. By 2003, nearly 100 Coldwell brokers racked up $980 million in sales.
 ''You can sit back and think you did it, but the market did 50 percent of the work,'' Mr. Cella said. ''For the buyer who wants this type of product, they have plenty of money. They buy one of these condos for a couple million dollars and obviously the product is not worth that, but the lifestyle certainly is.'' 
 Across the island -- whether it's the bucolic ''up-country'' communities like Kula and Makawao or the golf resorts at Kapalua, Kaanipali and Wailea -- nearly everyone who bought property in the last six years has doubled his money, or better.
 Sitting in their sun-drenched oceanfront living room, Jeff and June Mair can attest to that. The California retirees came to Maui in 2001, and their 4,800-square-foot custom home -- which cost $2.95 million for land and construction -- is now worth more than $7 million.
 ''We bought the land for $1.55 million, and when escrow closed a month later, we could've sold it for $2 million,'' said Mr. Mair, evenly tanned from long hours of golf interspersed with ocean swims. 
 The rising property values have also brought along some undesired side effects. A shortage of affordable housing is one of Maui County's chief concerns, and residents worry about sustaining the environment, culture and lifestyle.
 ''Wherever it's beautiful and wonderful, it's changing so much that your head spins,'' said Hunton Conrad, a Hawaiian-born architectural designer who has worked on Maui for the past 26 years. ''In places near the ocean, most of the architecture now reflects a Newport Beach mentality.'' 
 One of the most striking reflections of the market's hasty leap can be found a short stroll from Doug and Mary Hajjar's place along Keawakapu Beach, where several $10-million-plus mansions have crowded out the understated cottages and ranch-style homes that once lined the shore. Towering over a westward ocean view, a 27,800-square-foot orange stucco mansion -- designed by the Mexican architect Ricardo Legorreta -- is a boxy beacon of contemporary luxury.
 ''We were very upset about that house, that thing,'' said Jacqueline Tavares, 65, whose father bought several lots on Keawakapu in the 1940's, when wild pigs still wandered the sandy terrain. Mrs. Tavares and her husband, Howard, 71, say they are the only original landowners along the South Kihei Beach, which, like much of Maui, has become too expensive for locals to afford.
 But as clear as the flat orange lines of the Legorreta house against the blue ocean is the allure of buying one's own piece of paradise, something the latest crop of Maui homeowners have shown a willingness to pay for.
 ''It's your own private magical space, which is hard to find anywhere,'' Mr. Hajjar said. ''I've traveled all over the world and I've never found a space that makes you feel like that.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 5, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Aug. 22 with an article about Maui misidentified the architect of a large house fronted by palm trees, an example of very expensive houses being built in the area. It was designed by Thomas A. Kligerman of Ike Kligerman Barkley Architects in Manhattan, not by Ricardo Legorreta. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: MAUI'S GOLD RUSH -- June and Jeff Mair's home, top left
the 27,800-square-foot home designed by Ricardo Legorreta, top right
 and more homes with great views on the way, left. (Photographs by Nicholas Grudin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BEACHES (89%); HOME PRICES (88%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (87%); INTEREST RATES (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TRENDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%) Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: FIRST HAWAIIAN BANK (53%); BANK OF HAWAII CORP (53%)

TICKER: BOH (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: Nicholas Grudin

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (71%) HAWAII, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (57%) Maui (Hawaii); Hawaii

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



493 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; POSTCARDS FROM THE SHORE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Rain as the Rainmaker

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: OCEAN GROVE 

 BODY:
LEN STEEN the owner of Nagle's, an old-fashioned ice cream parlor on Main Avenue here -- was expecting the worst. Dairy prices were doubling, vanilla prices were tripling and the economy was not recovering quickly enough. Fortunately, the Farmer's Almanac was predicting lousy weather.
 It's now late August, and not much has changed. The cost of an ice cream is in no danger of dropping. And precipitation levels for the summer are about an inch-and-a-half above normal. 
 ''Well, I don't want to sound unnecessarily Reaganistic,'' Mr. Steen said. ''You know, like a new dawn in America, but this has been one fantastic year. Anybody complaining about the weather or the economy this summer, well, they must be seeing something I'm not.''
 Each summer, the New Jersey shore can expect slightly more than 11 inches of rain in June, July and August, according to the National Weather Service. Last year, the skies opened for about two inches more than normal, and because it actually rained on 41 of the 92 days in those three months, 2003 was generally considered a washout for people fleeing the stifling cities for a week or so of sun, sand and shore dinners.
 This summer, through mid-August, rainfall at the shore was about 1.5 inches above normal, but over fewer days. As of midweek, it had rained on only 29 days.
 But washout? It's all a matter of perspective, and the dirty little secret among business owners down the shore is that they like it to rain -- at least a little bit. The reasoning goes like this: The visitors are coming to the shore, rain or shine -- barring a hurricane -- because they have already booked their motel rooms or leased their houses or condos. The check has been written and cashed. Once they are down the shore, rain will drive people off the beach and onto the streets lined with shops teeming with tchotchkes, towels, bathing suits, sweatshirts, Italian ice, books and anything else fit for human consumption. 
 ''This was a great year for us,'' said Kim Miller, who with her husband, Josh, owns Ocean Galleries, pricey art emporiums in Avalon and Stone Harbor. ''Why, am I supposed to tell you differently? Am I supposed to complain? Sure, it rains. So on those days, people come in during the day. When it doesn't rain, they go to the beach and then visit at night. It's the shore. What do merchants expect?''
 Well, Jenn Heinold, the director of marketing at the Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts in Cape May, which runs tours out of Cape May, says shore merchants expect 2002 -- when the economy boomed -- every year.
 ''That was the great year,'' said Ms. Heinold, whose center also operates four souvenir stores. ''The weather was great. The economy was great. We got spoiled.''
 She added: ''We're flat from last year, and that was down considerably from 2002. We were hoping for a comeback, but it hasn't happened.''
 Ms. Heinold has noticed over the years that rain -- or at least overcast skies -- has often helped tour numbers and lighthouse visits. This summer, the tours and activities for families -- like Kids Day at the Victorian Emlen Physick Estate and the Cape May Kids Playhouse -- have been way up.
 ''If it rains here, people seem to be really looking for something for the family this year,'' Ms. Heinold said. ''But you can't blame everything on rain. It hasn't been all that bad.''
 On the other hand, rainy days take their toll at the new Mid-Atlantic Center business, the Doo-Wop Museum Shop on the Schellenger Avenue amusement pier in Wildwood. It opened this year under the pier's roller-coaster, selling items reminiscent of the 1950's and 1960's heyday of Wildwood.
 ''When it rains, the whole pier closes, so we don't do any business at all,'' Ms. Heinold said. ''So we were a little disappointed. But we'll figure things out by next summer there.''
 A little farther north, on the boardwalk in Ocean City, it was not frustration with the weather at the shore but the rain farther inland that drove business passions.
 ''We did just fine with weather down here,'' said John Oehlers, the manager of Mack and Manco's, a well-known pizza parlor at Ninth Avenue and the Boardwalk. ''It was all that rain in Burlington County and the predictions of hurricanes that kept people away. We depend a lot on day trippers and weekenders, so I think they just stayed away on those weeks. Otherwise, though, it wasn't too bad. It's got to rain sometime, right?''
 There was really only one washout weekend -- last Friday through Sunday -- with dueling tropical storms churning their way up the coast.
 ''Every other Saturday night, we were able to have our piano player outside from 8 p.m. until the last person went home, which was never before 11,'' Mr. Steen of Nagle's said. ''It only rained 8 days out of 31 in July. You can't do better than that. We held the line on prices, even with the dairy going through the roof. I guess people appreciated that and just ordered more.''
 Down the street, even on a Monday afternoon, customers were jamming the Ocean Grove Flower and Gift Shop.
 ''I don't have time to talk,'' a shop clerk, who declined to identify herself, said on a misty Monday morning last week. ''It's been just busy all summer. I don't want to seem short. It's just that it has been a good day every day.''
 Mr. Steen couldn't agree more.
 ''It's Monday and we're full,'' he said. ''Business people who complain about the weather at the shore should go to Seattle. It's a great life here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Customers lining up at Nagle's, an ice cream parlor in Ocean Grove whose owner says this has been ''one fantastic year'' at the shore. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); BEACHES (89%); RETAILERS (85%); FOOD PRICES (78%); WEATHER (77%); HURRICANES (76%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (67%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (64%) Beaches; Retail Stores and Trade; Weather; Rain

PERSON: Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



494 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: SHOWDOWN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Expects a Role in Najaf, But Says Iraq Calls the Shots

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
Senior officials in the Bush administration have said all week that the decision to confront Moktada al-Sadr and his fighters in Najaf, and to use military force if necessary, will be made by Prime Minister Ayad Allawi and his government and by them alone.
 ''It's a problem that the Iraqi government is working to solve,'' Scott McClellan, the White House spokesman, said Thursday. ''They are the ones that are in charge of resolving this situation in Najaf.''
 According to the Bush administration, 3,500 Iraqi Army forces are trained to conduct an operation like removing the rebels from the shrine in Najaf where they have been holed up, and the Iraqis would carry out the major part of any operation. 
 But because any military action by Iraqi security forces would be backed by American air power and possibly by more direct military involvement, few specialists take the claims of sole Iraqi discretion at face value. Officials close to the situation say it is inconceivable that the administration will simply let Iraqi forces act in Najaf without a discussion and assent in Washington.
 ''The Iraqis are totally calling the ball,'' said a senior administration official involved in the discussions on Iraq. But he added, ''In the event of a significant difference over policy, I suspect the issue would be referred to senior levels in Washington.''
 From there it would be decided who would go to Dr. Allawi ''and express our concerns,'' he said, adding that such a sequence of events ''has not yet occurred'' with regard to Najaf or any other areas.
 The official's comments reflected an extremely delicate moment for the United States almost eight weeks after it turned sovereignty over to Iraq. The United States left 140,000 American troops to provide most of the nation's security while Iraqis are encouraged to come forward to be the face of their government, even though they lack the capacity to provide security for their people.
 In the administration, meanwhile, the Iraq Policy and Operations Group holds daily video conferences to discuss developments. The group includes top officials at the State and Defense Departments, the White House and the American Embassy in Baghdad.
 Some American officials say administration policy makers are haunted by missteps in Iraq when the United States was in charge under the occupation administrator, L. Paul Bremer III.
 Earlier sieges of rebels in Falluja, and military actions in Najaf and elsewhere, were accompanied by threats to use force to arrest and disarm rebels. In Falluja, the threats were rescinded and in Najaf, military actions were pressed without the arrest of Mr. Sadr out of concern about the possibility of igniting violent Iraqi protests.
 ''The situation has been bungled and agonized over from the beginning,'' said Larry Diamond, a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University who advised Mr. Bremer in Baghdad.
 ''Bremer wanted to put Sadr out of business, but the military was wary about the cost and the difficulties,'' he added. ''It was a pathetic succession of debating, wavering, wondering, hesitating, planning and then backing off over many months.''
 A senior administration official, recalling the earlier false starts in confronting Mr. Sadr, said that it was decided that Iraqi forces needed to lead such a military action, and that they were not ready. Second, he said, the Iraqi government itself was not viewed by Iraqis as legitimate enough to make such a decision.
 Now, officials said, a new consensus in the Bush administration holds that Dr. Allawi has the legitimacy to order a military action against Mr. Sadr and that Dr. Allawi can draw on the hostility of Najaf residents over Mr. Sadr's use of the Imam Ali shrine, one of the most sacred mosques in the Islamic world, as a military base and arms depot.
 An official said the administration was still anxious about what might go wrong in any military action against Mr. Sadr and his forces, in the shrine or elsewhere in Najaf. 
 ''There's still a lot of doubt about how these Iraqis are going to perform in protecting themselves and avoiding casualties to noncombatants,'' an American official said. But he said there was also a feeling that not backing Dr. Allawi would undercut him and wreck his legitimacy and that of America.
 The feeling that now is the time to act appears to be shared by American allies in Iraq.
 ''If Allawi has accepted the necessity to use force, we have to have confidence in his judgment,'' Prime Minister Marek Belka of Poland said in an interview this month after meeting with President Bush.
 Mr. Belka, who for much of the last year was director of economic policy in Iraq for the occupation, added that the Sadr rebellion represented ''a fight for who will be the leader of the Shia community.''
 ''I don't think Polish military commanders will be unhappy to see the Sadrists attacked by the United States military,'' he added, referring to Polish forces in Iraq, many of whom are also stationed in the Najaf area. But he said that given the risks, Polish commanders were also probably happy not to be part of any operation attacking the shrine.
 Administration officials say that now is the time to deal with Mr. Sadr, by force if necessary. 
 ''Allawi thinks it's absolutely crucial for himself, and for the credibility of his government, to confront Moktada strongly and decisively, if possible with Iraqi forces in the foreground,'' a senior official said.
 Another official said the current situation ''indicates that the Iraq government under Mr. Allawi is determined to stamp out thugs and renegades who would use force against it.'' What happens in Najaf, he said, will ''send an important signal'' and presage possible actions or threats of force in other places.
 ''We'll see if the ones who are acting up in Basra follow suit,'' the official said. ''We'll see if force has to be used against them.''
 If force is considered, most authorities expect the decision to be carefully monitored in Washington even as policy makers step aside and contend that everything is up to the Iraqis.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A militiaman loyal to Moktada al-Sadr used a broom handle to clean his rocket-propelled grenade launcher. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ARMIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); TERRORISM (59%) Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (90%) Steven R Weisman; Ayad (Prime Min) Allawi; Moktada Al- Sadr; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%) Iraq; Najaf (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



495 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: That Not-So-Distant Thunder in the Bond Market

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
WHEN investors consider the bond market these days, the low level of interest rates should be more cause for worry than for gratitude. 
 Yes, despite forecasts of a surge in interest rates this year, long-term yields in the Treasury market are close to where they started in January. That has resulted in a return from the overall bond market of 2.5 percent through Friday, low but much better than expected -- and better than the stock market's losses. 
 But the bond market has been very volatile. Yields shot up earlier in the year, and even though they have since fallen, it would be risky to bet that the current climate will continue much longer. 
 There are plenty of reasons that rates should have risen much further by now. Federal Reserve policy makers have raised their benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point and intend to go higher. The price of crude oil is within striking distance of $50 a barrel. Consumer inflation, even after a surprising slip in July, has run at an annual rate of 3.7 percent since May. 
 A record federal budget deficit of more than $400 billion is predicted for this year. Although economic growth is not as robust as it was early in the year, many forecasters still expect a 3-percent-plus pace in the second half.
 The yields on shorter-term securities, like the two-year note, are up about six-tenths of a percentage point this year, but the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note has actually slipped by two-hundredths of a percentage point, to 4.23 percent. 
 One explanation is that Fed policy makers are moving slowly in raising their short-term interest rate target, the federal funds rate, which is holding back the rise in longer-term rates. The fed funds rate is ''the anchor for the entire yield curve,'' said Paul A. McCulley, a portfolio manager and economist at Pimco, an asset management company in Newport Beach, Calif.
 In addition, government data shows that the pace of growth slowed in the second quarter. High oil prices could continue to curb consumer spending, and therefore the growth of the entire economy.
 But this explanation has a problem: it requires investors to ignore the fact that persistently high oil prices can increase inflation. ''Just now oil is being treated as a tax on growth, not as inflationary, so it is not pushing rates higher,'' said Mary J. Miller, an assistant director of the fixed-income group at T. Rowe Price.
 If oil prices come down, the drag on consumer spending will disappear quickly. The prospect of stronger growth would probably send interest rates higher as investors bet on faster rate increases from the Fed. Longer-term interest rates may rise even if a drop in oil prices relieves inflationary pressure, because the Consumer Price Index, excluding energy, is still relatively high. It rose at a 2.6 percent annual rate in the six months ending in July. 
 For all these reasons, it is a big risk to bet on interest rates remaining low. 
 ''You are not supposed to be risk-seeking at these levels of interest rates,'' said Mr. McCulley of Pimco. It's too easy, he said, to end up in a ''nasty bear market.'' 
 Another surge in rates could be worse than the one earlier this year.
 On June 14, the yield on the Treasury's two-year note was up more than a full percentage point from the end of last year, to 2.93 percent, while the yield on the 10-year note was up 0.6 percentage points, to 4.87 percent. At that time, an investor in the overall Treasury market had lost 1.4 percent for the year. Investment-grade corporate bonds were down 1.7 percent, while high-yield junk bonds were up just 0.2 percent, according to the fixed-income indexes of Merrill Lynch. Since then, the yield on the 10-year note has dropped back to 4.23 percent, near its low point since the spring. Over the same period, the return from the overall bond market has been 3.9 percent. But this is the kind of whipsaw that bond investors want to avoid. 
 TO do that, investors need to be cautious, staying in shorter-term fixed-income securities, which would have a smaller price decline if rates moved higher.
 There is even an argument for keeping some cash in money market funds. Their rates are finally inching higher again as the Fed lifts its target for short-term rates.
 ''It might make some sense,'' said Ms. Miller of T. Rowe Price, ''to enjoy a modest return while the uncertainty in the bond and stock market plays out.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Back Where It Started''Graph tracks the 10-year Treasury note yield since Jan. 2004.Dec. 31, '03: 4.25%Friday: 4.23%(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); YIELD CURVE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%) Interest Rates

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



496 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Alicia Robbins, James Andrews

 BODY:
Alicia Susan Tanner Robbins, a daughter of Nina Tanner Robbins of Washington and Stephen J. M. Robbins of Sacramento, was married yesterday to James Paul Andrews, a son of Elizabeth M. Andrews-DiLuna of Boxborough, Mass., and the late John C. Andrews. The Rev. 
Alan Merson, a Unitarian Universalist minister, officiated at the Mountain Home Lodge in Leavenworth, Wash.
 Ms. Robbins, 27, is keeping her name. She graduated from Columbia University and is completing master's degrees in forest economics and in international studies at the University of Washington in Seattle. Her father is a lawyer in Sacramento. Her mother is a fund-raising consultant for the Environmental Conservation Trust of Uganda. 
 Mr. Andrews, 32, is the director of sales at Medical Training Solutions, a software company in Seattle. He graduated from Boston College. His mother trains nurses at Winchester Hospital in Winchester, Mass. His father was a vice president for sales and marketing at the Digital Equipment Corporation, a computer company, in Maynard, Mass.


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (86%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (83%); FUNDRAISING (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); NURSES & NURSING (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (68%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%); BOSTON COLLEGE (55%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (57%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%); UGANDA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



497 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET/Bedford-Stuyvesant; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: 'The Residential Is Hot, But the Commercial Is Not'

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

 BODY:
FOR the better part of a year, Emeka Okafor and Todd Johnson have been struggling to open Le Cafe Starving Artiste in the heart of Bedford-Stuyvesant. The two Bed-Stuy residents leased a former Laundromat on Nostrand Avenue near Fulton Street and began transforming a concrete shell into a cafe. They're hoping it will become a catalyst for a new type of commercial space in an area dominated by 99-cent stores, nail salons and beauty supply chains.
 While the rent is only $1,900 a month, it has not been easy getting the 800-square-foot cafe open, mostly because of a lack of capital. The same could be said of the neighborhood in general. 
 A residential revitalization has been under way for some time in Bed-Stuy, but the commercial market has not kept pace. According to census figures, the number of households in the neighborhood occupied by their owners jumped more than sixfold in the 1990's. The historic brownstones, some now selling for upward of $800,000, have lured the black middle class back to an area once labeled the largest ghetto in the United States.
 Charles Willis, 34, who bought a house early in 2001, is one of the many new homeowners. He said he would never have considered buying in Bed-Stuy if friends had not told him about the great housing stock. He now lives four doors away from his friends on Macon Street near Nostrand Avenue, which also happens to be around the corner from where Mr. Willis's father lived in the 1950's.
 ''Funny how things come around like that,'' said Mr. Willis, who has an M.B.A. from Columbia University and is a portfolio manager for J. P. Morgan Chase. He counts no fewer than six other Columbia Business School graduates who have bought brownstones in Bed-Stuy in the last four years, all based on word of mouth.
 Indeed, the fastest-growing income group in Bed-Stuy is the category of $100,000 or more, according to a study commissioned in 2002 by the Brooklyn Alliance, a not-for-profit economic development affiliate of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce. The same study found that more than half of all commercial space along the Fulton corridor consists of hair and nail salons, down-scale apparel shops, fast-food restaurants and variety stores. Currently, there is not a single full-service grocery store in all of Bed-Stuy, which had 120,000 people in 2000.
 ''The residential is hot, but the commercial is not,'' said Mr. Johnson, sitting for an interview in Le Cafe Starving Artiste, still a construction site that he hopes will soon be drawing people like Mr. Willis. 
 Mr. Okafor, who was born in England but is of Nigerian ancestry, like the star basketball player with the same name, said: ''We want this to be a cafe in the truest sense of the word. We want it to be a gathering place, an all-encompassing experience.''
 The partners see considerable opportunity in the neighborhood. ''You have a lot of people who buy their goods and go out in Manhattan; then they get on the train and go home,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''We want to provide those commercial and aesthetic services that we know are in huge demand.''
 To that end, Mr. Johnson organized a meeting of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, a community development corporation, and a group of neighbors who want to open businesses. It turned out that his timing was perfect. 
 ''When Todd Johnson came to us a couple months ago, we were already forming a group to connect local entrepreneurs with local capital,'' said Geri Jasper, vice president for economic development of the Bed-Stuy Restoration Corporation. Ms. Jasper is hoping to have the first formal local investor network meeting in October.
 While the Restoration Corporation works on establishing the network, other Bed-Stuy residents have relied on equity from their brownstones to finance some upscale shops. 
 Monique Greenwood, a longtime community activist and business owner in the neighborhood, bought a brownstone 15 years ago. Using equity from her house, she opened a bed and breakfast on Lewis Avenue and named it the Akwaaba, meaning ''welcome'' in a language spoken in Ghana. She later opened a restaurant by the same name and purchased a third building on Lewis Avenue with five commercial spaces. Ms. Greenwood said all of the locally owned boutique shops in her building are operated by people who used equity from their Bed-Stuy homes.
 A few other locally owned businesses have opened or are set to open soon, including a bakery on Lewis Avenue; a restaurant called Food4Thought on MacDonough Street; Ibo Landing, a home decorating shop on Throop Avenue; and Misu, a clothing store, also on Throop. Most of the new business activity, aside from a recently opened juice bar, Juke Joint Juice Jaffe, is noticeably absent from Fulton Street, despite a four-year community effort known as Fulton First. 
 With a grant from Fleet Bank and financing from the City of New York, the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce and the Bed-Stuy Restoration Corporation have been managing a $4 million effort to revitalize the commercial corridor along Fulton. Fulton First will experience its first major success when Applebee's breaks ground in September for a 7,500 square-foot restaurant in Restoration Plaza. It will be the first national restaurant chain, aside from fast-food outlets, to open in Bed-Stuy since the 1960's.
 Kenneth Adams, president of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce, said the initial phase of Fulton First was geared toward cleaning up the street and assisting shop owners with storefront improvements. He readily admits that this does not solve the fundamental problem of achieving a better balance of retail options. ''People will tell you that Fulton used to have everything available,'' Mr. Adams said. ''Now, if you live in central Brooklyn, you have to get in a car to go shopping. It runs counter to a good quality of life in the city.'' 
 Mr. Adams hopes Fulton First will build on Applebee's success. The main obstacle, according to Mr. Adams, is that property owners on Fulton ''just don't get it.'' He added: ''There are a lot of absentee landlords who didn't come to our meetings and didn't get involved. So long as the buildings are performing reasonably well, they leave it alone. When regional retailers start giving the street a second look, landlords will be surprised to get the call. Right now, their phones are not ringing.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A COMMERCIAL SHIFT -- Todd Johnson and Emeka Okafor in the former coin-operated laundry on Nostrand Avenue that they are converting to Le Cafe Starving Artiste. (Photo by Jonathan Fickies for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
LOCAL INITIATIVE -- Far left, Mark Singh sweeps in front of this store, N&S General Merchandise, on Nostrand Avenue. Above, Crystal Bobb-Semple, center, waits on Valerie Nero-Reid and Suhaylah Owusu at her antique store in a building on Lewis Avenue owned by Monique Greenwood, shown in the lower photo at her bed and breakfast. (Photos by Jonathan Fickies for The New York Times, above
 Michael Kamber for The New York Times, right, top and bottom)(pg. 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); RETAILERS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); FAST FOOD (73%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (71%); NAIL SALONS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (65%); INTERVIEWS (62%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (60%); BASKETBALL (60%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (57%); CENSUS (55%) Retail Stores and Trade; Blacks

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: Lisa Chamberlain

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (50%) New York City; Bedford-Stuyvesant (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



498 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: Who You Gonna Call? Good Luck if It's a Taxi

BYLINE: By JANE GORDON

 BODY:
ON the priority list of transportation options in the state, cabs are at the bottom. There have been long debates over train service and the constant congestion on the highways, but there are few words spoken about cabs. This is, after all, a state where executives don't call a cab, they hire a car. Cabs hardly even get a mention in the Connecticut Transportation Strategy Board's 20-year plan, which addresses every conceivable kind of transportation in the state.
 It's no wonder. Connecticut cities and suburbs depend far less on taxicabs to move people from one place to another than the big cities. In fact, 22 towns don't have service at all. Residents can punch in cab company numbers until their fingers are sore, but a cab will never come in the towns of Bethany, Bethlehem, Brooklyn, Canaan, Colebrook, Cornwall, Eastford, Goshen, Hampton, Litchfield, Lyme, Middlebury, Morris, Norfolk, North Canaan, Prospect, Salisbury, Scotland, Sharon, Warren, Willington and Winchester.
 ''No one ever even asks,'' Evelyn Goodwin, the town clerk of Litchfield, said about cab service. ''That's a thing of the past.'' 
 Even in the cities the service is spotty. Cabs are at the train stations and airports, but stand on a street corner with a raised arm to hail a cab, and all you'll probably get is a few friendly people waving back. And no one expects the cab situation to get any better.
 Oz Griebel, head of the Transportation Strategy Board, said cabs were not a priority.
 ''While cab issues are certainly germane to the transportation issue, they're not a strategic issue,'' he said. ''We've tended to focus more on mass transportation, and many major cities have been promoting train and bus service. People are saying if there are going to be public dollars spent, that's where they should be spent.''
 No one sees that as a problem, but Bruce Schaller, the principal of Schaller Consulting in Brooklyn, N.Y., which specializes in urban transportation issues, said it could become one. For cities like Hartford that are hoping projects like Adriaen's Landing will increase economic activity, cab service becomes an important component, he said.
 ''You want people to be able to walk out of a convention center, a hotel, a stadium and get a cab,'' Mr. Schaller said. ''People get the sense then that this is an urban environment. It's an important supporting service to economic activity, as part of an overall strategy by a city for economic development. There is a real value to that level of service. And many cities want to provide a New York City-like taxi service, but they aren't there yet.
 ''You also want a place to feel like the place that everybody wants to go to,'' he said. ''And there are many signals that you are in such a place, and one of those signals is good cab service.''
 Bradley International Airport has some of the best service, with from 20 to 50 cabs in line waiting for fares, said Brian Baik, the airport's transportation planner. Still, he said, the average wait for a cabby to get a passenger is about three hours. Stamford, New Haven and Bridgeport have taxis lining up at their Metro-North stations, but at other stations along the train route, riders must call and wait for a cab. 
 During the summer in Hartford, cab drivers at the train station said, business is so slow they can wait five hours or more for a fare.
 ''You wait a lot,'' said Franky Matta, a driver who was parked in an orderly line outside the station.
 So with not enough demand to keep the about 900 licensed cab drivers busy, even those in the cities, there is no incentive for drivers to wander around looking for fares. 
 The word has long been out in Willington about the lack of cabs.
 ''Living in a rural area the way we do,'' said Isabel Weigold, the town historian, ''we know we'll have to rely on our devices to get from one place to another.''
 Cheryl Anderson, pastor of the First Congregational Church on the Green in Washington in northwest Connecticut, has yet to use a taxi in Washington.
 ''Living out here, you can't survive without a car,'' she said. ''Obviously, you don't walk out on the street and hail a cab here, although I have seen a cab driving around Washington.'' There is one cab company that serves the town, and it's in Southbury.
 Litchfield had a cab company, which was run by Charles Linsley, a former selectman. Mr. Linsley said he once had a thriving cab business.
 ''The livery business has taken over now,'' he said. ''People here know to call a car service if they need a ride.'' Often, the destination is Manhattan and the fare is $150. 
 Mr. Schaller, the consultant, said that in the suburbs, most taxi service was done through dispatchers.
 ''And even there you have issues arise in areas that generate a low number of calls for service because there won't be a cab in the immediate area,'' he said. ''And people don't want to wait a long time for a cab and drivers don't want to drive a long distance for pickup, especially if the customer may not be there when they get there. That's the challenge both from the industry and government perspective of providing taxi service in low-density areas.''
 Cheshire, a town of 29,000 that had been doing without cab service for many years, managed to attract a cab company in 2003. This was good news for Cheshire Academy, a private sixth through 12th grade boarding and day school whose students previously needed to coordinate rides from faculty members or friends to get to the train station.
 ''The cab company talked to Charlie Mitchell, our dean of student life, about whether kids would be using it,'' said Philip Moore, a spokesman for the school. ''Boarding students aren't allowed to have cars on campus, and I know that kids have used the taxi service during the year.'' 
 There are about 80 cab companies in the state, primarily in the state's urban areas, and mostly in Fairfield County, where Metro-North is heavily used. The drivers said it was difficult to make much money because of the lack of business. Marco Henry, the president of the Taxicab Association of Connecticut, a consortium of cab companies, said drivers made an average $400 a week.
 ''Operating a cab is much more expensive now, with gas prices so high,'' he said. ''But $300 to $500 a week is better than working at McDonald's for $200 a week flipping burgers.''
 Drivers determined to make more than a few dollars often have rejected riders who are not traveling a significant distance. They are waiting for the big-ticket rider, the one going to New York or to a casino.
 ''I picked up one guy at the Milford train station a few years ago,'' said Gordon Hays, a dispatcher with Milford Taxi Cab. ''I drove him to Mohegan Sun, waited four hours and then brought him to Atlantic City. I made about $1,200. That doesn't happen every day, but you can get those kinds of fares.''
 Javier Diez of Stamford, who was waiting for a cab in Stamford recently, said he sometimes had a problem getting a cab.
 ''When I lived closer to the station, the drivers would reject me all the time,'' he said. ''They just didn't want to take me such a short distance.''
 Stamford recently placed a taxi monitor at the station to better organize service there and stop drivers from rejecting passengers, but the service was suspended after complaints about a $2 surcharge to passengers, which paid for the monitor.
 There is no monitor at the Hartford train station. Arthur Duncan stood outside his cab, leaning against a rail that separates the sidewalk from the buses that line up at the station. Customers have become so precious that cabbies sometimes have fought over them, he said. Mr. Duncan, a veteran driver, owns his cab and his company, Arthur's City Cab.
 ''There's not enough business for all these cabs,'' he said. Even the casinos haven't helped much; a bus ride from the Hartford station to Foxwoods costs $21. A cab ride costs $90. 
 Mr. Duncan faulted corporate layoffs in Hartford for the loss of cab business and said he was resting his hopes on the Adriaen's Landing project alongside the Connecticut River, which includes a new convention center. He rejoined his colleagues, who stood at the railing in their shorts and sneakers, waiting for the next customer. It might be a while, he said.
 Most cab drivers work 12-hour days, often splitting a 24-hour cycle with a partner. In Stamford, many of the drivers interviewed said they had grown up in Haiti, a few in Pakistan, others in Bangladesh. Some lease their cabs from their companies, others own them but sign on with the cab company to get licensing, car repair and other benefits. Many of the Stamford Taxi drivers sitting recently at the Stamford station own their cabs and pay several hundred dollars a week to the company for insurance, licensing and dispatching services. 
 New Haven cabbies stay in line most of the time without a monitor, although they periodically fight over fares who fail to take the first cab available. 
 Gregory Leigh has been driving a taxi in New Haven for five years. He leases the cab from Metro Taxi for $700 a week, he said, and makes about $1,000 in fares weekly, for a profit of $300. On a recent Monday morning, he was sitting in his Metro cab, waiting in line for the next available fare.
 ''I like living on the edge,'' he said. ''It's a rough business, but I've had fun. And it runs pretty fair down here. But when it gets slow, everybody gets itchy and frustrated, and I've seen cabbies refuse people who weren't going very far. That's not right; we're in customer service. If you're not committed to that, you really shouldn't be in the business.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Abraha Tesemma waiting at the Hartford train station. Cabbies there said they can wait five hours for a customer. Below, people wait for cabs at the New Haven train station. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Arthur Duncan at the Hartford train station. ''There's not enough business for all these cabs,'' he said.
 A cabby taking a nap at the New Haven train station, where cabbies sometimes argue over fares. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (84%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); TRAINS (78%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (75%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%) Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers; Industry Profiles

PERSON: Jane Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (72%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



499 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: It's Who You Know. Really.

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the ''Moneybox'' column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
IN many economics faculty lounges, the mere suggestion that markets are something less than efficient is likely to elicit cool stares. But Kenneth J. Arrow, a 1972 Nobel laureate and professor emeritus at Stanford, recently turned a skeptical eye on the efficiency of one vast market -- the labor market -- and reached some intriguing conclusions about what distinguishes better-paid workers from their lower-paid peers. It's not what you know, Professor Arrow, a prolific theorist, suggests; it's who you know. 
 If labor markets were truly efficient, pay among workers with similar credentials would not vary much. But within groups of similarly situated workers, income inequality has risen in recent decades. What's more, Professor Arrow said, ''Observable characteristics like intelligence, education, experience and age explain only half of the difference.'' 
 To get at the other 50 percent, he and a Stanford colleague, Ron Borzekowski, now at the Federal Reserve in Washington, reimagined the place of workers in the equation. Instead of regarding employees' wages as responses to the laws of supply and demand, they constructed a model that views wages as functions of competitive bidding among companies.
 A computer connected to 100 computers is economically more powerful than a PC linked to only 10 -- that's the network effect. It turns out that the same holds for workers and their personal connections to companies. While the Internet's breadth may offer individuals the chance to post their qualifications for millions of employers to see, about half of all jobs are still found through personal contacts of some sort. 
 And the more connections you have, the more you end up being paid. Why? Companies that make judgments based solely on a resume are flying blind, to a degree. By contrast, if a job applicant once worked with a current company employee, or attends the same church as a company worker, the company can glean hints about how that applicant will perform. Such personal information -- about reliability, or a sense of humor -- can lead companies to bid more aggressively for someone's services. But such data is conveyed almost exclusively through personal network connections. And if the information is available to 10 potential employers instead of 2, wages are more likely to be bid higher. 
 The network effect is weaker, though, for people seeking the most highly skilled positions. 
 ''For jobs that require higher education and technical skills, network connections don't matter as much,'' said Harry J. Holzer, professor of public policy at Georgetown University. Honors graduates of Harvard Law School will probably receive a host of job interviews, regardless of how many partners they know at how many law firms. But, Professor Holzer said, when it comes to relatively unskilled jobs, such links are crucial. When hiring a baby-sitter, the fact that an applicant may have worked for a neighbor or relative carries far more weight than a resume.
 In fact, in a recent working paper, Professor Arrow and Mr. Borzekowski conclude that a worker's net worth can have a lot to do with the worker's network. In their model -- and it is just a model, not based on empirical data -- a person with one corporate connection would be expected to earn $19,570. By contrast, a person with links to five companies would be expected to earn $30,410. Ultimately, they conclude, ''the difference in the number of ties can induce substantial inequality and can explain 15-20 percent of the unexplained variation in wages.''
 The economists also suggest that network effects may help account for income inequality among races. In 1998, for men 24 to 40 years of age who had finished high school but had no further education, the average income for African-Americans was $26,223 and for whites was $33,123. If one hypothesized that the average African-American worker had links to 3.2 companies and the average white worker had links to 5.7, that would go a long way toward explaining the large wage gap, Professor Arrow said. 
 THE hypothesis makes sense, said Jeffrey A. Robinson, assistant professor of management and entrepreneurship at New York University's Stern School of Business. ''Minorities are often disconnected from the web of social relationships that lead to hiring decisions.''
 Professor Arrow has not pursued the policy implications of his findings, but others have. To improve the lot and prospects of middle-income workers and the working poor, it may not be enough merely to focus on the traditional twin pillars of job training and education. Policy makers may also need to focus on upgrading the number and quality of workers' links to companies.
 ''The challenge is to expand the role of social brokers -- individuals, nonprofit and government agencies -- that can facilitate connections to companies once people have the skills,'' Professor Robinson said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenneth J. Arrow 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); LAWYERS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (70%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); LEGAL SERVICES (62%) Labor; Research; Wages and Salaries

PERSON: Daniel Gross; Kenneth J (Prof) Arrow; Ron Borzekowski

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



500 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: The Peril That Trails An Oil Shock

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
TO many people, the drifting stock market and the sky-high United States Treasury market both seem to be signaling an economic slowdown. Stocks can't seem to rally even though corporate earnings have been stellar, and bonds can't seem to fall even though some economic data show strength.
 Last week, however, a third market flashed red on the economy: oil. And according to Stephen S. Roach, economist at Morgan Stanley, oil shocks, like the one that may be developing, have an awfully perfect -- and perfectly awful -- track record. They are always followed by recession. 
 Last Friday, the price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil hit $48.95 a barrel, then settled back to $47.86 at the close of trading. That is up from around $33 a barrel at the beginning of the year. 
 A throng of strategists on Wall Street argue that rising crude prices do not hurt as much as they have in the past because the economy is not as energy dependent as it once was. The amount of energy needed to generate $1 in gross domestic product has fallen by roughly 50 percent in the past three decades, according to Morgan Stanley. 
 But as Mr. Roach pointed out, a price spike like the one that has occurred this year can have consequences. And if the past is any guide, they are not pretty. 
 What is pushing oil prices? First, there are the fundamental factors related to increased consumption and a decline in exploration and extraction over the past 20 years. 
 Global oil consumption is up about 2.5 percent this year; in the United States, demand rose 3.5 percent in the second quarter over the same period last year. 
 As Jan Hatzius, an economist at Goldman Sachs, said in a recent report, oil prices are likely to stay high in the coming years because capital spending on energy exploration has lagged badly since the 1980's. Mr. Hatzius estimated that $2.4 trillion worth of capital spending -- nearly three times the amount spent in the 1990's -- will be necessary over the next decade to meet expected growth in demand. High oil prices will pay for that new investment. 
 But another factor is compounding the effects of supply and demand on oil's price. That is the rush by speculators into the relatively illiquid oil markets in recent months. These investors, immensely frustrated by the trendless stock market and the static bond market, have latched onto oil as one of the rare world markets that have momentum and produce profits. 
 No one knows, of course, where oil prices could go. But Mr. Roach said that recent levels were approaching oil-shock territory. And that makes the United States economy especially vulnerable to a recession.
 Mr. Roach said the price of oil must stay at current levels for between three and six months to produce a true energy shock. It may not. But if it does? In the past, Mr. Roach found that oil shocks have always been followed by recessions. 
 The shock that followed the first oil embargo led to the severe downturn of 1973 to 1975. The oil run-up after the 1979 embargo helped produce the recession of 1981-82. And the shock generated by the Persian Gulf war contributed to the relatively mild decline of 1990-91. 
 What all three events had in common, Mr. Roach said, was that the economy was stalling when the oil shock hit. In both 1973 and 1990, the economy was growing 2.2 percent annually. In the second half of 1979, growth was even weaker, averaging 0.6 percent, annualized. An oil shock, he said, ''rarely comes at a time of economic strength and resilience when we can shrug it off and keep growing.''
 FAST-FORWARD to 2004, and the economy is slowing in a similar fashion, Mr. Roach noted. ''The current recovery in the U.S. economy has been the most anemic on record,'' he said. ''History tells us that the stall speed and a shock are a lethal combination.''
 To be sure, the price of oil could turn down, removing the recession threat. But Mr. Hatzius at Goldman Sachs said that the recent increases looked more permanent than past spikes. 
 His evidence is a sharp rise in oil futures contracts, especially those with five-year terms, which have risen above $35 a barrel. For the past 15 years, he said, these contracts traded in a narrow range of around $20 a barrel. This move in the futures market suggests that substantially higher oil prices are here to stay, Mr. Hatzius argued.
 Making a global forecast based on oil prices is risky, Mr. Roach acknowledged.
 ''There could be a huge breakthrough in Iraq and some supply could come on from Russia or Venezuela,'' he said. ''But my guess is that some lasting damage has been done at these price points, and we're likely to have a significant haircut on growth next year.'' 
 Maybe that's why stocks can't get out of the rut they're in.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Oil Spike''Graph tracks the price per barrel from 1991 - 2003.5-year futures contracts for light sweet crude oil(Source by Goldman Sachs)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RECESSION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BONDS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); FUTURES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (76%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy; Recession and Depression; Futures and Options Trading

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%)

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



501 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; SUMMER 2004 GAMES -- WOMEN'S WRESTLING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Feelings of Family Motivate a Groundbreaking U.S. Team

BYLINE: By DAMON HACK

DATELINE: ATHENS, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
At age 3, Sara McMann was pulled into the unknown world of wrestling, following her older brother, Jason, in the way that younger siblings do. When Jason tried a move, she mimicked it with her tiny arms. When Jason bumped her, she bumped back. 
 ''I was his wrestling dummy,'' she said. 
 They spent their formative years roughhousing. But then, in January 1999, Jason disappeared near Lock Haven, Pa. According to the police, he had been in a bar fight and was beaten unconscious. Three months later, the police found his body in a wooded area of Logan Township. Jason was 21.
 His death nearly broke McMann. Today, as a member of the first United States Olympic women's wrestling team, she says it guides her every step.
 ''I totally worshipped him,'' said McMann, 23, who was three years younger than Jason. ''I know that no matter how I do here, he would love me.''
 The story is one McMann has shared with others, including the teammates she has grown so close to that they treat one another like sisters. In the years leading to the Athens Games, there have been pajama parties and giggling fits and countless hours lifting weights.
 They have shed tears and pounds, chiseling their bodies in search of a more perfect wrestling machine.
 As the first American women's wrestlers to be called Olympians, they are bound by the shared experiences of overcoming sexism, sadness and the rigors of the sport itself. McMann, who competes in the 63-kilogram (138.75-pound) division, along with Tela O'Donnell (55 kilogram/121 pounds), Toccara Montgomery (72 kilograms/158.5 pounds) and Patricia Miranda (48 kilograms/105.5 pounds), were to begin competition Sunday at Olympic Hall in Ano Liossia, a suburb just northwest of Athens.
 ''It has made us closer,'' McMann said while standing in the main press center here. ''Patricia and I watch each other's matches to motivate ourselves. Tela is probably my most consistent workout partner. Toccara and I have gone to camps together. If someone is having a problem, the other person is always there to say, 'Hey, what's going on?'''
 On such a small team, the ties that bind are durable. The four have crossed barriers in their lives and on the mat. Boys and, later, men have taunted them, threatened them and, occasionally, tried to injure them.
 O'Donnell, 22, who was reared by her mother in Homer, Alaska, played boys' junior varsity football. Miranda, 25, whose mother died of an aneurysm when she was 10, defied her father's wishes that she not wrestle.
 He threatened to sue her high school to keep her off the team until Miranda and her father, Jose, made a deal that she could wrestle if she kept good grades. Miranda graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Stanford with degrees in economics and international policy; she will begin Yale Law School in the fall.
 ''When I started wrestling in the eighth grade, I was ready to have something challenge me,'' Miranda said. ''It scared me so much the first day because I knew it would take all of my body and all of my mind, and that excited me. It's one on one. If you win it, you own it, and you own it for the rest of your life.''
 Miranda said she saw Athens as an opportunity to dispel the myths that have slowed the acceptance of women's wrestling. ''It's our stage to say, 'Hey, look at us,''' she said. '''See us not as a side joke or as mud wrestling. See the sweat and the tears and the triumph.'''
 Townsend Saunders, one of the team's coaches and a silver medalist in freestyle wrestling at the 1996 Atlanta Games, said of the women: ''I equate it to Jackie Robinson. There was a time when people were upset that black athletes were competing. We have a chance to open up some eyes to this sport, and I think when you see some medals wrapped around some necks, it will give a lot more opportunities to other girls.''
 Montgomery, 21, who is majoring in education at Cumberland College in Kentucky, has risen to the peak of her sport while her father, Paul, has followed her career from behind prison walls in southwestern Ohio, where he is serving 30 years to life for a double murder in 1998. Montgomery was 15 at the time.
 Four days before leaving for Athens, she said, she spoke to her father on the telephone; she has been unable to visit him this year.
 ''I was always a Daddy's girl, and I'm still a Daddy's girl,'' Montgomery said. ''He's always been positive, telling me not to take any pressure here. Sometimes he says, 'You still can't beat me,' and I'm like, 'O.K., old man.'''
 Montgomery says her father remains a beacon in her life. She says that even without him, she has not made it here alone.
 The sentiment is shared by McMann, who still reflects on her early matches with Jason, when a child's endeavor became an adult's calling.
 ''I live my life,'' she said, ''to make him proud of the woman that I am.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sara McMann, left, and Tela O'Donnell begin competing today. (Photo by Douglas C. Pizac/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WRESTLING (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); ATHLETES (88%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (78%); WOMEN (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); WEIGHTLIFTING (66%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (66%) Olympic Games; Wrestling; Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics)

ORGANIZATION: POLICE FOUNDATION (57%)

PERSON: Damon Hack; Sara Mcmann; Tela O'Donnell; Toccara Montgomery; Patricia Miranda

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (93%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); ALASKA, USA (79%) GREECE (93%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



502 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: A Writer Of Erotica Allows A Peek At Herself

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
IN the opening moments of the short story ''When Opposites Attract,'' a pretty young secretary named Shelly announces the day's agenda to her boss, Maylia, a Yale graduate and $250,000-a-year black executive who apparently has not had a second to zip out of her Donna Karan suit since Alan Greenspan's induction into the Federal Reserve. Bored by the prospect of the day's obligations and seized by envy of Shelly's relatively unburdened life, Maylia decides to forgo all her meetings and conference calls and vacate her office for the expansive patch of greenery just outside her window, Central Park. Just as she gets there -- actually, just as she takes her first lick of an ice cream cone -- Maylia meets Julian, a 6-foot-5 stranger, with whom the rituals of courtship proceed, shall we say, expeditiously. 
 This story of carnal exploration is part of a collection by Zane, a 37-year-old pseudonymously named author and suburban mother of three who has succeeded in giving voice to a new type of genre fiction: post-feminist African-American erotica. Zane has had eight books published in four years, with more than 2.5 million copies making their way into the hands of readers, most of them women. This month three of her titles appear on Essence magazine's best-seller list; in April, she had the No. 1 and 2 spots, above Toni Morrison and Eric Jerome Dickey. At one point last October, 7 of 15 titles on Waldenbooks' African-American best-seller list were by Zane. Under contract with Atria, a division of Simon & Schuster, she is to write five more books in coming years, with the next, ''Afterburn,'' arriving in November. Arguably not since the emergence of Nancy Friday has American letters produced a purveyor of erotica with such mass-market appeal.
 Celebrated though she is, Zane will not disclose her real name, which places her in a tradition of erotic writers that predates the women's movement. Until her first book tour this summer, Zane, who lives with her husband and children outside Washington, had refused to make public appearances, in part to preserve her domestic life. In an age of Internet stalking, sitting for pictures, she believes, exposes her to fewer dangers than revealing her identity would. Her oldest child, a 17-year-old son, knows what she does for a living, and had managed not to share her identity with his friends until, Zane said last week, ''he saw a really cute girl at school reading one of my books, and he just couldn't help himself and said, 'Hey -- that's my mom!' '' Soon, young women started ringing her doorbell late at night for autographs, and Zane decided it was time to move.
 Certainly few mothers, including Zane, would want their teenage children reading her books, with their graphic descriptions of sexual encounters that rarely involve scenarios so simple as a man, a woman and a freshly ironed pair of Wamsutta sheets. But as in most erotica, clinical detail is not the sole subject. It is in some sense Zane's aversion to presenting an unmitigated fantasy of sex-without-consequence that seems to appeal to many readers. In one novel, ''Addicted,'' a pretty young wife who feels compelled to have repeated affairs ultimately seeks counseling to save her marriage.
 ''Most of Zane's books deal with women who see the signs that something is wrong with the person they are with or the relationships that they are in, but they choose to overlook these problems because of the sex,'' said Joy Williams, a 42-year-old library circulation assistant in Baltimore and a Zane devotee. ''The books aren't like romance novels with 'happily ever after' endings.''
 Indeed, though written no more artfully than romance fiction, they are more sociologically complex. Zane's work belongs to a category of what Jane Juffer, an assistant professor of English and women's studies at Pennsylvania State and the author of a study titled ''At Home With Pornography: Women, Sex and Everyday Life,'' calls ''identity erotica'' -- sexually charged literature that has a kind of immediate political validation because its treatment of private life in specific subcultures has an air of taboo-breaking.
 Zane's novels and short stories about women's sexual gamesmanship are sometimes set in a context of grim social realities. In one recent title, ''Nervous,'' a young woman with an aggressively lusty alter ego dredges up memories of her father's abuse of her and confronts him in her therapist's office.
 An element of fantasy fulfillment comes in part from the author's inversion of the demographic realities in the world she is depicting. Rarely is there a shortage of suitable African-American men for the aspirational women in her stories, and when women travel down the economic ladder to couple, they are not forced to do so, but choose to. Maylia winds up having no use for the lower-class Julian after her tryst with him in his apartment in a public housing project. Zane's latest novel, ''Skyscraper,'' has a woman seducing a mailroom clerk, mainly because she is bored with her husband, the first black chief executive of a major automotive company.
 The chronicler of such escapades turns out, as one might expect, to be a soft-spoken woman with the looks of a regional bank manager. Zane, the daughter of a retired schoolteacher and a retired religion professor who taught at Yale, Oxford and Duke, began experimenting with creative writing seven years ago while working as a sales representative. She was a single mother with little to do after her children went to bed, and to quell her boredom she started writing erotic short stories, though she never read any by other writers until she had written 40 herself.
 In November 1997, she sent a story to three friends, who sent it it by e-mail to 40 others. The feedback was positive, so she put three stories on a Web site she made for herself and quickly received 8,000 visitors. Three years later she published, on her own, a collection of stories with the title ''The Sex Chronicles'' and sold 108,000 copies at $22 apiece.
 Her initial anonymity helped arouse curiosity about her. ''In the beginning, no one even had any idea if she was a man or a woman,'' said Patrik Henry Bass, the books editor at Essence, adding that self-imposed obscurity was an untrafficked path to success in African-American publishing. ''There are very few African-American writers who are recluses,'' Mr. Bass said. ''African-American readers love Terry McMillan in part because they know and love her personal story. They love Alice Walker because they admire her commitment to social change.''
 ''I haven't seen someone receive the support Zane has without the backdrop of a personal history,'' he said.
 Zane's emergence into the spotlight, even if limited, has been motivated partly by the responsibilities of her adjunct career as a publisher. Five years ago she started Strebor Books International, which lists 34 authors, among them the best-selling author Darrien Lee, and publishes about 25 titles a year. She has also stepped into the public frame, she said, to keep others from impersonating her.
 ''Once, I was online and noticed someone saying she was on her way to a reading of mine in Atlanta,'' she recalled. ''I wasn't in Atlanta. I was in my house.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: UNVEILED -- After eight books in four years, the author known only as Zane is making public appearances. (Photos by Marty Katz for The New York Times
book jackets, Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 PUBLIC DISPLAY -- Books signed by Zane, at the Hue-Man Bookstore in Harlem. (Photo by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); BESTSELLERS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); ICE CREAM (74%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); LITERATURE (72%); WOMEN (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); CHILDREN (65%) Books and Literature; Pornography and Obscenity

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%) Zane (Author); Ginia Bellafante

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



503 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking Energy With the Economy in Mind

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''A Year Later, Lessons From the Blackout,'' by Peter Fox-Penner (Op-Ed, Aug. 15):
 I agree that we need to improve the reliability of the utility sector and that federal leadership is needed. But it is equally important that we reduce our need for energy. 
 Rising energy costs stymie economic development, and traditional sources of energy have negative health effects on communities most adversely affected by energy planning, which are too often low-income communities of color.
 One way we can reduce our energy needs and create thousands of good jobs for New Yorkers, as well as improve public health and national security, is to promote energy demand-reduction strategies, like the creation and retrofitting of high-performance, energy-efficient buildings and infrastructure.
 Such an approach would create the opportunity to revitalize New York City's industrial sectors if we can locally design and produce the products that support the high-performance building market. 
 This is especially important because manufacturing -- a source of family-sustaining jobs -- is in serious decline.

JEREMY REISS
East Village

The writer is project director, Urban Agenda, Queens College Labor Resource Center.





LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEMAND (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%) Electric Light and Power

PERSON: Jeremy Reiss; Peter Fox-Penner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



504 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 6; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Fluke Fishing And the Economy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Make Every Fluke Count'' (editorial, Aug. 8):
 The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation is committed to protecting the fluke fishery and the economy that depends on it.
 This year, the department strongly opposed the process for collecting data by the National Marine Fisheries Service upon which a federally required 48.5 percent fluke harvest reduction was based. The department put fluke harvest regulations into effect that required a 20 percent reduction -- still the most restrictive package of fluke regulations on the Atlantic coast -- that was more statistically valid. But New York was ruled out of compliance, and attempts to appeal the ruling failed, requiring either the prohibition of commercial and recreational fluke fishing or coming into compliance by enacting regulations that met the 48.5 percent reduction.
 To avoid the devastating economic impact such a prohibition would cause, the department adopted emergency regulations that increased the fluke size limit to 18 inches. With fluke season coming to a close, anglers should know that New York continues to object to the fluke harvest methodology and will consider all available options to reform the fluke quota management process at the federal level. 
 We look forward to continuing to work with the fishing community to ensure continued success of our fluke population and a strong fishing economy.

Erin M. Crotty
Commissioner, Department of Environmental Conservation
Albany

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHERIES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); FISHES (90%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (77%); FISHING LAW (77%); SPORT FISHING (77%); TRENDS (74%); APPEALS (69%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Commercial; Fluke (Fish); Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Erin M (Comr) Crotty

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



505 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 6; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: Urban Grit? I'll Take Tidiness

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 As a planner with more than 30 years' experience in urban planning right here in our city, I can't help but laugh when I read about preserving ''products of accidental beauty -- the serendipity of failure'' (''A Plan for the High Line,'' editorial, Aug. 15). I've always found the audience for urban grit to be rather small. To whom is this proposed public urban skyway meant to appeal?
 Keith Haring's work, for example, looks great gentrified on a museum wall -- not on a working subway line. A larger citywide audience would enjoy a garden skyway minus weeds and gravel! What is this mystical rhapsody about keeping a site of weeds and gravel ''just as it is''?
 Our subways, the flip side of skyways, no longer have graffiti. Sometimes, preservation is the wrong aesthetic.

HOWARD GEYER
Upper East Side

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (88%); CITIES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (53%) Railroads; Restoration and Rehabilitation; High Line (NYC); Parks and Other Recreation Areas

PERSON: Howard Geyer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



506 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Regulating Business, but Slashing Expensive Rules

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Out of Spotlight, Bush Overhauls U.S. Regulations'' (front page, Aug. 13) noted several exceptions where the Bush administration supported new regulation of business, but did not include important details: 
 The Environmental Protection Agency has initiated a 70 percent reduction in pollution from coal-fired power plants and a 90 percent reduction in diesel exhaust from off-road engines used in construction, mining and agriculture.
 The Food and Drug Administration has required the food industry to label foods for their trans-fat content to reduce heart disease. It has also required the drug industry to provide bar-code labeling on its products, thereby allowing health care professionals to use scanning equipment to verify that a patient is receiving the correct drug in the appropriate dose.
 It is important to consider the administration's pro-protection rules as well as our deregulatory initiatives. We are proud of the fact that the president's ''smarter regulation'' agenda has slashed the growth of costly business rules by 75 percent.

John D. Graham
Administrator, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs Office of Management and Budget
Washington, Aug. 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); POWER PLANTS (71%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); OILS & FATS (69%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (68%); BUDGETS (65%) United States Economy; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%) Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs

PERSON: John D (Admr) Graham; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



507 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Officials Forecast Hope For Victims of Hurricane

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER; Terry Aguayo contributed reporting from Miami for this article, and Sara Kennedy from Wauchula.

DATELINE: FORT MYERS, Fla., Aug. 20 

 BODY:
Since Hurricane Charley slammed Florida, Angel James has been adrift.
 A huge oak tree crashed onto the roof of Mr. James's house during the storm a week ago. Because he needed the money to make ends meet, he had let the insurance lapse. Then he discovered that the hurricane also took his job, destroying the orange groves where he usually works. 
 ''I don't know what we are going to do,'' he said Thursday in front of a row of shattered buildings in Wauchula, one of the hardest hit towns, about 70 miles north of here.
 For Mr. James, who is temporarily living with a daughter, and many other victims of the hurricane, the outlook could not seem bleaker. But if history is any guide, his prospects and those for all of Florida will greatly improve in the coming weeks as billions of dollars in insurance money and federal aid pour into the state, as it did after the devastating blows of Hurricane Andrew in 1992.
 ''This is going to be a temporary jolt,'' said J. Antonio Villamil, the chairman of Gov. Jeb Bush's Council of Economic Advisers. ''We're going to experience a boom in new construction and repairs and road building. We're already seeing people being re-employed in reconstruction.''
 Hurricane Charley shut down restaurants, department stores, neighborhood businesses and the makers of everything from small boats to military equipment. Officials estimate $150 million in damage to next year's citrus crop. And economists say some tourists canceled vacation plans. 
 Mr. Villamil said that as a result of the hurricane, he expected Florida's economic growth to slow to an annualized rate of about 4.5 percent for the three months ending in September, down from 4.8 percent in the previous period. The jobless percentage will probably rise to 4.5 or 4.6 percent from 4.3 percent, Mr. Villamil said, and retail sales will decline.
 But state officials say the slowdown caused by Hurricane Charley, with estimated losses of $20 billion, will probably last no more than a month or two. 
 Just as after Hurricane Andrew -- an even more costly storm, at nearly $35 billion in today's dollars -- Florida will almost certainly be swept up in a mini-boom as construction crews swarm over the 21 counties damaged by the storm, and restoration money ripples through the state. 
 Florida is also likely to benefit from election-year politics. It is a pivotal state, and the governor is President Bush's brother. 
 ''State and federal aid will be quickly forthcoming to ensure that the pain and suffering of ordinary people and business is limited,'' said Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Economy.com, who was vacationing in Daytona Beach when the storm hit and has spent the last few days ripping up soaked carpets in his mother-in-law's condominium there. 
 ''There will be a measurable boost to the economy,'' Mr. Zandi said. 
 Mr. Villamil estimated that Florida ''could easily see growth of 5 percent'' in the latter part of the year, compared with national economic growth that has been running at just below 4 percent. ''We could see growth moving to 5.5 percent or 6 percent next year,'' he said. 
 Hurricane Andrew gave Florida's economy an even bigger lift, economists say. After growing less than 1 percent in 1991 as a national recession began to fade, the state's economy grew 2.7 percent in 1992, spurred largely by an influx of disaster money, said David Wyss, the chief economist for Standard & Poor's. Florida's growth rate rose to 3.7 percent in 1993 and to 4.1 percent in 1994. 
 A year after the storm, unemployment across Florida fell to 7 percent, from 8.3 percent. Part of that improvement, economists say, reflected a national recovery from the recession. But in Florida, jobs in the construction industry alone rose 9.2 percent. 
 Robert Hartwig, the chief economist for the Insurance Information Institute, estimates that Florida residents and businesses will collect more than $7 billion from insurance companies. State officials and independent economists expect Washington to close the gap on the state's estimated $20 billion in damage.
 ''In most natural disasters, the insurance and government aid do not make the regional economy whole again,'' Mr. Zandi said. ''But given the importance of Florida politically and this being an election year, I'd be surprised if the residents are not made whole.''
 Even so, the impact of the insurance and government money is expected to be milder than in 1992, partly because Florida's economy is stronger now and, at $500 billion a year, about a third larger. 
 Florida is pinning much of its hope on tourism, its leading industry, just ahead of farming.
 Pam Dana, director of the Department of Tourism, Trade and Economic Development, said the television images of broken houses and mobile home parks could cause people to think twice before planning a vacation. But she said the storm had little effect on the state's biggest attractions, Walt Disney World and other theme parks and the beaches of South Florida. 
 Still, the state has already taken the first steps in an advertising counteroffensive. ''We want to get the word out that Florida by and large is open,'' said Tom Flanigan, a spokesman for Visit Florida, the state tourism agency.
 The recovery after Hurricane Andrew got off to a slow start because of delays in federal assistance, said Mr. Villamil, who at the time was the under secretary of commerce for economic affairs for the first President Bush. 
 ''We didn't have the strong coordination between the federal government and the state that we have now,'' he said.
 The money from Washington is already starting to flow and Governor Bush is urging the Legislature to vote next week on freeing up millions in relief funds. 
 This week, Elaine L. Chao, the secretary of labor, visited battered areas and said she would immediately send $50 million to ease the strain of unemployment. Mr. Villamil noted the quick assessment of citrus losses by the Department of Agriculture and said most of it would probably be offset by federal farm aid.
 Since soon after the winds died down, representatives of the Small Business Administration have been taking applications for 15- to 30-year loans at 2 percent to 3.5 percent. With the prime lending rate at about 4.5 percent, Mr. Villamil said, most small-business owners seeking loans before the storm were paying 6.5 percent to 7.5 percent from commercial lenders. 
 Even Mr. James, the migrant worker, who is 56 and the father of nine, said he was planning to apply for an S.B.A. loan. He is doubtful that he can qualify, he said, but he needs money to fix his home, which he bought for $30,000 years ago. And with a loan, he says, perhaps he can realize his long-held dream of starting a greenhouse nursery and ending his dependence on the weather and the changing needs of farm owners.
 ''I'm pretty sure I've got good credit,'' Mr. James said. ''But I don't know how it will work out. It's a hard life, and it's gotten even harder.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: James Townsend, left, a federal relief worker, waiting yesterday as Angel James of Wauchula, Fla., gathered his identification and other papers. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)
 Brian Burns with damage to his orange grove near Arcadia, Fla. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (95%); TROPICAL STORMS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); WEATHER (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ORANGE GROVES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); GOVERNORS (72%); CITRUS GROVES (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); TRENDS (70%); RETAILERS (69%); DAMAGES (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (65%); RESTAURANTS (65%); RETAIL SALES (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); POLITICS (63%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (51%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Insurance; Labor; Unemployment; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) Joseph B Treaster; Jeb (Gov) Bush; J Antonio Villamil

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (79%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Florida; United States

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



508 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Democrats in Red States: Just Regular Guys

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: MISSOULA, Mont. 

 BODY:
SITTING among the prized huckleberry jams and manicured hogs of the Western Montana State Fair, the lone representative of the Democratic Party tried to blend in.
 With his jeans and rawhide face, Geoff Badenoch certainly looked the part. And as a native of Glendive, in the wind-seared ranching country of eastern Montana, he talked the part.
 But there was the matter of that scarlet D attached to his booth. It made him stick out like someone eating corn on the cob with a fork. 
 As one of the poorest states in the country with a long tradition of scrappy unionism, Montana seems like it could be a Democratic stronghold. But it's not. Despite a populist roar, former Vice President Al Gore lost this state by nearly two to one in the last presidential election, and Republicans expect President Bush to win big again this year.
 A big reason is the three G's in the Republican culture-wars deck -- gays, guns and God -- the issues that resonate in the heartland and overshadow economic issues that Democrats say should move poor and lower-middle-class voters here into their camp.
 The liberal writer Thomas Frank makes such a case in his recent best-selling polemic, ''What's the Matter With Kansas?'' In return for voting Republican by a wide margin, people in the poorest counties in the Great Plains get nothing economically, he argues, because no matter what the Republicans promise, their fiscal policies favor the rich.
 The Great Backlash, as Mr. Frank calls it, ''is a working-class movement that has done incalculable, historic harm to working-class people.'' 
 Such arguments, while much debated, are being taken to heart this campaign season by Democratic politicians in rural, low-wage, red-state America -- even as the focus of the Democratic presidential campaign of Senator John Kerry remains elsewhere, on middle-of-the-road voters in swing states.
 Democrats here in Montana criticize their own party for part of their predicament. They say it dug its own hole in middle America by becoming identified with the party's liberal urban base, making them an easy target for talk-radio firebrands. 
 So now any talk of economic disparities first has to cut through a fog of perception that Democrats are elitist and do not share the values of Red America.
 To blunt such perceptions, the Democrats' strategy is to avoid the hot-button social issues and pound on economics. They complain that Republican tax cuts have done nothing for the lower-middle class, while wages have fallen and jobs have disappeared.
 ''There's a huge disconnect between what's going on and how people vote,'' said Mr. Badenoch.
 With this strategy, the Democrats hope to win a tight governor's race here, with Brian Schweitzer, and believe they can win control of the State Legislature. In Colorado, the Democrats expect to pick up a Senate seat, with the state attorney general, Ken Salazar. Authenticity helps; Mr. Schweitzer and Mr. Salazar both come from ranching families, and consciously avoid the concerns of urban Democrats who dominate the national party.
 ''Our candidates speak the language and they're moderate on social issues,'' said Teresa Henry, a Democrat running for the Montana Legislature.
 On the national level, Democrats trying to break the cultural barriers say that Mr. Kerry needs to spend less time in the reconstructed 15th-century European barn that he and his wife own in Sun Valley, Idaho, and more time shooting sporting clays, as he did during a visit to a gun club on a recent swing through the upper Midwest.
 ''You can run on economic issues as long as you reassure people on the cultural things,'' said Frank Greer, a political consultant who worked for Bill Clinton.
 Still, some red-state Democrats wince when they see Mr. Kerry stiltedly asking, ''Who among us does not love Nascar?'' and connecting to the great outdoors by windsurfing.
 And Republicans say no amount of local tailoring of his message will get the Democrats much traction outside the coasts and Great Lakes because a majority believes that President Bush's policies of tax cuts and deregulation will ultimately lift more people into the middle class.
 ''Why are 75 percent of Americans against the death tax when it only affects 1 percent of them?'' asked Stephen Moore, president of the Club for Growth, an anti-tax political action committee. ''Because we are able to make the case that lower taxes are in everybody's economic interests.''
 Putting this another way, Mr. Badenoch said: ''A lot of people think someday they're going to win the Powerball lottery. And when they do, they don't want the government to get it all in taxes.''
 Starting in the late 1960's, when Richard Nixon peeled off blue-collar Democrats and George Wallace supporters with a Southern strategy that played on racial tensions, Republicans have made steady gains among the poor and lower-middle class outside the big cities. The big shift in Montana and elsewhere came in the 1980's, when so-called Reagan Democrats deserted the party of the New Deal to vote Republican.
 ''It was social issues, family issues and a feeling like they had been abandoned by Democrats who only cared about the poor,'' Mr. Greer said.
 But he said Democrats applied lessons learned from the Reagan Democrats to the campaign of Bill Clinton, who carried many Southern states and Montana as well in 1992.
 Al Gore, however, didn't carry a single Southern or Rocky Mountain state, except New Mexico. Nationally, among the poor and lower-middle class, Mr. Bush made significant inroads, though the Democrats still carried a majority of people who earned less than $50,000 a year, according to exit polls.
 This year, the focus of the culture wars is gay marriage. It figured in the knockout blow dealt this month to Bill Kassebaum, a Republican state legislator in Kansas, running for re-election in the primary. Mr. Kassebaum comes from a storied line of Kansas Republicans. His mother is Nancy Kassebaum Baker, a former United States senator, and his grandfather was Alf Landon, the Republican presidential nominee in 1936.
 Mr. Kassebaum voted against amending the state constitution to outlaw gay marriage, saying it was already outlawed by Kansas statute. He also voted for a tax increase to help public schools, particularly in rural areas. Both positions brought him heavy fire from conservative talk radio hosts and outside groups like the Club for Growth.
 In neighboring Missouri, voters this month came out overwhelmingly against gay marriage. Mr. Kerry did not decry the vote, saying gay marriage is a state issue. But Republicans say Mr. Kerry's opposition to a constitutional amendment outlawing same-sex marriage will be fatal for him in the big swath of rural red, and it could hurt him in swing states like Ohio.
 They say Democrats are fighting trends that may take generations to reverse, and that party leaders remain clueless on how to reconnect with their old bib-overall and lunch-bucket constituency.
 ''It's a mistake to think this is all about evangelical voters,'' said Gary Bauer, a janitor's son and head of a conservative political action committee, the Campaign for Working Families. ''Joe Six-Pack doesn't understand why the world and his culture are changing and why he doesn't have a say in it.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Robert Grossman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); LIBERALISM (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (67%); TRENDS (66%); WRITERS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%) Presidential Election of 2004; Rural Areas ; Labor; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy; Election Issues; Social Conditions and Trends; Urban Areas 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%) Timothy Egan

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOULA, MT, USA (58%) MONTANA, USA (97%); KANSAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Kansas; Montana

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



509 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: After Fight, Coast Guard Site Will Remain in New London

BYLINE: By ROBERT HAMILTON

 BODY:
CONNECTICUT officials were stunned to learn this summer that the United States Coast Guard was contemplating building its new museum out of the state, after a three-year development campaign that was focused on leaving the museum in New London.
 But after pressure by the state's Congressional delegation, the museum will stay put. At least for now.
 Under a bill signed into law by President George W. Bush this month, the Coast Guard cannot build its museum anywhere else. The legislation also opens the door to the possibility of federal funding to build it. 
 ''To put it in a baseball analogy, it was the bottom of the ninth, there were two outs, the score was about 10-0, and we hit three grand slams and won the game,'' said United States Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat.
 Mr. Dodd and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, also a Democrat., worked closely with United States Representative Rob Simmons, a Republican, to keep the museum in New London.
 ''The Coast Guard Academy in New London anchors our state's proud tradition as an epicenter of nautical history and tourism, and there is simply no better location for the Coast Guard Museum than the New London area,'' Mr. Lieberman said.
 Mr. Simmons called the bill a ''huge, huge success,'' but cautioned that the next Congress could overturn the law and pass its own.
 ''If we wait too long, we're in trouble,'' Mr. Simmons said. ''We cannot afford to dawdle. The New London Development Corporation and all the other players need to get a move on, because this whole issue could be reopened next year if we delay.''
 The corporation is supervising the redevelopment of the area around Fort Trumbull State Park in New London, which in the early 20th century was a training site for the Coast Guard and was identified three years ago as the best place for the museum.
 ''One way or another, we should have a piece of property for them by the end of the year,'' David M. Goebel, the chief operating officer of the development corporation, said. ''We think it would bring a tremendous advantage to the area, and it really belongs at Fort Trumbull because of its history.''
 Mayor Gerard J. Gaynor said the museum, though tax exempt, would be a big boost to the New London because visitors will stay in the city's hotels, eat at its restaurants and fill up at its gasoline stations before heading home.
 ''It should draw hundreds of thousands of people to the city each year, according to some estimates, which will really help the economy,'' Mr. Gaynor said. ''On the whole, I think it will be very good for New London.''
 For decades, a small museum on the grounds of the Coast Guard Academy in New London has told the story of the service's history, but in a rather cramped setting. More than 600 of the 25,000 pieces in its collection are displayed in the 5,000 square feet it shares with the academy's library and alumni association and also in a few other buildings on the grounds.
 Three years ago the National Coast Guard Museum Association was established to raise $40 million for a new 25,000-square-foot building, and from the start the Coast Guard said it would be in New London because of the Guard's ties to the area. Mr. Simmons said the association had raised about $5 million. The academy has been in New London since 1910.
 The association chairman is James Coleman Jr. of New Orleans, but five of the seven members are from southeastern Connecticut, including State Senator Cathy W. Cook, a Republican, who said initial plans were for interactive exhibits that would include virtual reality experiences that put a visitor right into a boat doing search and rescue in a hurricane or chasing drug runners in the Caribbean.
 In addition, she said the museum would fit well into the maritime tradition of the area, forming a synergy with other maritime-related museums like as Mystic Seaport, the Submarine Force Museum in Groton, the Custom House in New London and Fort Trumbull State Park. 
 ''It's important that it be in an area that the Coast Guard associates with itself,'' said Lucinda J. Herrick, the museum curator. ''For the Coast Guard, this works, and it works better than almost anyplace else in the country.''
 So officials were stunned to learn the Coast Guard had commissioned an internal study to consider other options, including Battery Park in New York City. Mr. Dodd, Mr. Lieberman and others then met with Coast Guard officials. 
 ''It became quite clear in that meeting that this very flawed study was leaning towards Battery Park, so we had to take matters into our own hands,'' Mr. Dodd said.
 Mr. Simmons said he was shocked the Coast Guard was moving ahead with other plans.
 ''I couldn't believe, after all that work, that anyone was even considering another idea,'' he said.
 He said the state had pledged $10 million toward the museum, and another $4 million to $5 million in private pledges have been received. Mr. Simmons said he would like to see a permanent site selected for the museum and some work under way before next summer to guarantee that it stays in New London. Changing the law, he said, would be far more difficult once the association breaks ground at a New London site.
 Mr. Dodd, Mr. Lieberman and Mr. Simmons worked with the joint House-Senate committee that was drafting the Coast Guard budget authorization bill for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1 to include language that was far stricter than anything in previous legislation, which had stated only that the museum could be in New London. 
 The law says, ''The Commandant may not establish a Coast Guard museum except as set forth by the requirement that it be located in New London.''
 Also, while earlier bills rule out the possibility of public funding for design or construction, the new legislation authorizes the Coast Guard to submit a report to Congress if it cannot come up with the money, ''so Congress may reconsider these limitations in the future.''
 Mr. Dodd also noted that the Army, Navy and Air Force all operate museums at their service academies, which serve to augment the curriculum because students can do historical research where they take classes.
 ''It's very much a part of building their esprit de corps, of giving them a chance to connect to their own history,'' Mr. Dodd said. ''It's a very important part of the educational process at these other academies.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Cape Ann Light in the Coast Guard Museum in New London. There are plans to build a much bigger museum in the city. (Photo by C.M. Glover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); STATE PARKS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BASEBALL (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); GAS STATIONS (60%) United States Armament and Defense; Law and Legislation; Parks and Other Recreation Areas; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: US COAST GUARD (94%) Coast Guard (US); coast guard museum (new london, conn)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (74%); JOE LIEBERMAN (59%) George W (Pres) Bush; Robert Hamilton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (96%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (98%) New London (Conn); United States; Fort Trumbull State Park (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



510 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; New & Noteworthy Paperbacks; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 707 words

BYLINE: By Elsa Dixler

 BODY:

SHE'S NOT THERE: A Life in Two Genders, by Jennifer Finney Boylan. (Broadway, $14.95.) Jennifer, formerly James, Boylan felt out of place in a man's body and chose to become a woman. Before surgery, she took both estrogen and a drug to lower her testosterone level: ''One pill makes you want to talk about relationships and eat salad. The other pill makes you dislike the Three Stooges.'' Boylan, an English professor, writes ''with disarming humor and a sharp eye for some of the absurdities of her situation,'' Janet Maslin said in The Times in 2003.

HERMIT IN PARIS: Autobiographical Writings, by Italo Calvino. (Vintage International, $13.) This collection of bits and pieces -- interviews, endnotes, replies to questionnaires -- includes a journal Calvino, who died in 1985, kept during his travels in the United States in 1959-60, and the title piece, a homage to his adopted city. The collection is uneven, our reviewer, Richard Eder, wrote in the Book Review last year, but it offers ''some excellent things.''

FOUR TRIALS, by John Edwards with John Auchard. (Simon & Schuster, $13.) In this book the Democratic candidate for vice president describes four of the cases -- involving accidents and alleged medical malpractice -- he argued and won during his career as a trial lawyer. ''Four Trials'' ''is both an attempt to position Edwards as the little fellow's champion . . . and a between-the-lines argument against tort reform,'' Michael Tomasky said in these pages earlier this year.

GREAT NECK, by Jay Cantor. (Vintage Contemporaries, $15.) This novel follows the lives of six teenagers from suburban Long Island during the 1960's and 70's. The brother of one of the girls is killed by the Klan while registering black voters in Mississippi, yet he apparently continues to send letters to another girl in the group. Dedicated to fighting for justice in his memory, the friends create a wildly popular comic-book series in which they're transformed into superheroes. As they move from nonviolent protest through the Black Panthers and the Weathermen, Cantor provides ''an impressively economical panorama of two decades in the life of America'' in a novel ''rich in character and incident,'' Adam Begley wrote in the Book Review in 2003.

TERROR IN THE NAME OF GOD: Why Religious Militants Kill, by Jessica Stern. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $15.95.) Stern, who lectures on terrorism at Harvard, spent four years talking to Christian, Jewish and Muslim extremists, and found that they had much in common. Leaders of the groups enjoyed the trappings of power, while those who served as cannon fodder were young and poorly educated. Stern's ''knowledge of the background'' of these groups ''adds perspective to her interviews,'' Isabel Hilton wrote in these pages last year, and while Stern offers no solutions, ''this is a serious and provocative beginning.''

FAMILY HISTORY, by Dani Shapiro. (Anchor, $13.) Rachel Jensen's lovely 13-year-old daughter, Kate, returns from camp with a pierced navel and a bad attitude. Is it ordinary teenage anger, or something worse? One night Kate causes an accident that shatters her family. The reader sees the effect, but not the cause; not until the novel's end is the whole picture revealed. ''Shapiro is a gifted writer,'' Emily White wrote in the Book Review last year, ''and 'Family History' is a bona fide page turner.''

CALIFORNIA DISH: What I Saw (and Cooked) at the American Culinary Revolution, by Jeremiah Tower. (Free Press, $14.) Tower, a former partner in Berkeley's legendary Chez Panisse, chronicles his role in California cuisine's coming-of-age in the 1970's and 80's in this memoir. Tower turned away from French cooking and relied on fresh seasonal ingredients, classically prepared. Describing experiences with drugs and encounters with celebrities, Tower, who now lives in New York, ''still knows how to dish,'' Judy D'Mello said in these pages last year.

INDELIBLE ACTS: Stories, by A. L. Kennedy. (Vintage Contemporaries, $12.) This Scottish writer's third collection of stories describes people's emotional errors in their search for love. In the Book Review in 2003, D. T. Max praised Kennedy's ''sexy sense of the self, her odd imagination and her nice sense of humor.'' Elsa Dixler


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Bruce Strong
 Marion Ettlinger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (77%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); TERRORISM (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); LITIGATION (71%); TORTS (70%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); LAWYERS (65%); RELIGION (63%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); TORT REFORM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



511 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Jennifer Ramo, David Kutz

 BODY:
Jennifer Anne Ramo, the daughter of Roberta Cooper Ramo and Dr. Barry W. Ramo of Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, N.M., was married yesterday to Dr. 
David Jonathan Kutz, the son of Nancy Weiss Kutz and Alan B. Kutz of Potomac, Md. Rabbi Ben Morrow officiated at the Hyatt Regency Tamaya Resort and Spa in Santa Ana Pueblo, N.M.
 Ms. Ramo, 34, is keeping her name. She is an associate at Sullivan, Stolier & Resor, a New Orleans law firm, and a freelance writer whose work includes a legal column for Bust, a feminist quarterly. She graduated from the University of Southern California and received her law degree from Tulane. 
 Her father, a cardiologist, is a partner in the New Mexico Heart Clinic and the health reporter for KOAT, an ABC television affiliate, both in Albuquerque. Her mother is a partner in Modrall Sperling, an Albuquerque law firm, and was the president of the American Bar Association from 1995 to 1996.
 Dr. Kutz, 32, is a psychologist. He is the clinical director of the Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Clinic of New Orleans. He graduated from the University of Michigan and received a Ph.D. in clinical psychology from the Medical College of Pennsylvania/Hahnemann University. His mother works in Rockville, Md., as the taxi cab commissioner for Montgomery County. His father is the vice president of the College of Southern Maryland in La Plata and the director of the school's Economic and Community Development Institute. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (70%); WRITERS (70%); CARDIOLOGY (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SULLIVAN STOLIER KOVATA KNIGHT LC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (57%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (91%) NEW MEXICO, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



512 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; CAMPAIGN 2004: THE REPUBLICANS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: Bush Promises Detailed Plans at Convention

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
President Bush will present what aides say will be a detailed second-term agenda when he is nominated in New York in 10 days, part of an ambitious convention program built on invocations of Sept. 11 and efforts to paint Senator John Kerry as untrustworthy and out of the mainstream.
 Mr. Bush's advisers said they were girding for the most extensive street demonstrations at any political convention since the Democrats nominated Hubert H. Humphrey in Chicago in 1968. But in contrast to that convention, which was severely undermined by televised displays of street rioting, Republicans said they would seek to turn any disruptions to their advantage, by portraying protests by even independent activists as Democratic-sanctioned displays of disrespect for a sitting president.
 And after months in which Mr. Bush stressed issues of concern to conservative supporters -- from restrictions on stem cell research to a constitutional amendment to bar gay marriage -- the convention will offer its national television audience a decidedly more moderate face for the president and his party. If ''strength'' was the leitmotif of the Democratic convention in Boston, ''compassion'' will be the theme in New York, marking the return of a mainstay of Mr. Bush's 2000 campaign, party leaders said. 
 Senator Zell Miller, a Democrat from Georgia who has become increasingly estranged from his party, will lead a prime-time televised lineup of speakers as notable for who is not there (conservative Republican leaders) as for who is (Mr. Miller and Arnold Schwarzenegger, the moderate Republican governor of California). And Republicans are pressing for a quick and quiet adoption of a platform to minimize dissent over issues that have divided the party, in particular immigration restrictions and a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage. 
 Most of all, Mr. Bush's aides said that after five months in which they have focused almost exclusively on attacking Mr. Kerry, the president will use his speech to offer what they asserted would be expansive plans for a second term, in an effort to underline what they argued was Mr. Kerry's failure to talk about the future at his own convention.
 ''This speech has to lay out a forward-looking, positive prospective agenda,'' said Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's senior political adviser. ''It has to show -- and to defend in a way the American people want to hear -- his policies on the war on terror.''
 Mr. Bush's advisers offered no details on what he might propose, and even some Republicans said the White House might be constrained both by the deficit and resistance among Republicans on spending.
 Still, Ed Gillespie, the national Republican chairman and a senior Bush campaign adviser, argued that Mr. Kerry had missed an opportunity at his convention by spending too much time talking about his biography and Mr. Bush, reflecting Mr. Kerry's effort to use his convention to present himself as strong enough to carry the nation through a time of war.
 ''They left people feeling hungry for substance,'' Mr. Gillespie said. ''We will not make that mistake in New York. We will come out of there with specific proposals for the future for a new term.''
 The emerging goals for the four days in New York signal that this White House has adopted an ambitious political agenda for a nominating convention that Republicans describe as a critical moment for Mr. Bush's campaign. It comes as many Republicans have grown increasingly worried about Mr. Bush's prospects for re-election, with some saying the campaign appears uncertain as it seeks to knock back a challenge from Mr. Kerry, a candidate many Republicans describe as less than overwhelming.
 ''If they were running against a Bill Clinton, governor of Arkansas, nominee, they'd be down 10 points,'' said one Republican strategist, speaking on condition of anonymity to avoid being accused by fellow Republicans of disloyalty. ''But they're not. They have the advantage of running against a guy who is basically a liberal from Massachusetts.''
 To a large extent, Mr. Bush's aides said, they were orchestrating a convention that would be as much about celebrating the nation and what they portray as its success at weathering the attacks of Sept. 11 as it would be talking about Mr. Bush's tenure. In doing that, the aides said, they were seeking to turn around the damaging perception among many Americans that the country is heading in the wrong direction, in the calculation that renewed confidence about the future would translate into support for Mr. Bush.
 A CBS News poll this week found that 53 percent of registered voters felt the nation was heading in the wrong direction, a dangerously high number for an incumbent. 
 For all the ambitions expressed by the White House for this convention, Democrats and even some Republicans expressed skepticism that Mr. Bush would in fact be able to lay out the kind of dramatic or ground-breaking second-term agenda that his aides are promising. In 1996, for example, President Bill Clinton used a succession of what his own aides described as small-bore ideas -- such as requiring school uniforms -- as a way of creating the perception that he was offering a grand plan for a second term, and some Democrats suggested that Mr. Bush might be about to do the same thing.
 ''They did work -- they filled the policy void and allowed him to seem on the offense,'' said Scott Reed, who was the campaign manager for Mr. Clinton's opponent that year, Bob Dole. ''It looked like he was doing something.''
 Mr. Bush, like Mr. Clinton, has the constraint of having been in office for four years, and many of his ideas are well-known to Americans.
 At his acceptance speech in 2000, Mr. Bush pledged to implement sweeping tax cuts, and reforms to the public school system, Social Security and Medicare. But that speech was delivered at a time of relative economic prosperity and government surplus. This time, Mr. Bush is hampered by budgetary restrictions caused by the deficit, the war in Iraq and revenue losses from the tax cuts. Some Republicans, while saying they wanted Mr. Bush to lay out new ideas for the second term, warned against significant new spending, saying that might scare off the very voters Mr. Bush needs to win over.
 Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, said independent voters in his state -- one of the top five targets of Mr. Bush this year -- were concerned about the deficit, and put off by what he described as pork barrel spending by Congress and Mr. Bush's proposal to finance a mission to Mars.
 ''The voter you could define as a Reagan Democrat votes both sides of the ticket -- and that person is a pretty conservative person,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''They see waste like that, they see spending like that, and it bothers them. Those are the people who he needs to win Wisconsin.''
 Mr. Kerry's communications director, Stephanie Cutter, disputed Republican claims that Mr. Kerry did not talk enough about the future at his convention, and scoffed at the idea that Mr. Bush would have much new to say at his convention. 
 ''People have been hungry for substance over the past four years because of the president's failure to put forth a domestic agenda and pay attention to the home front,'' she said. ''They can talk about substance all they want at the convention, but the American people won't be fooled.''
 Mr. Bush's aides declined to provide details of what the president would say, other than to say he was likely to lay out plans dealing with health care and probably tax reform. But they claim that his agenda would be more sweeping and ambitious than the modest scale initiatives that Mr. Clinton rolled out when he ran for re-election in 1996.
 Mr. Bush's advisers said the perceptions of the success of the convention would be set as much by what happened on the stages of Madison Square Garden as what happens outside -- be it the demonstrations on the streets of New York or the reminders of the World Trade Center attack that led the White House to decide to hold the first Republican convention in New York in history.
 With thousands of demonstrators coming to New York, Mr. Bush's aides said they expected competition for attention but said that posed more of a risk for Democrats than for Republicans. Even though Democrats are not involved in organizing the protests, some of the participants are almost certain to be aligned with traditionally Democratic groups, like labor and environmentalists, and Republicans made clear they would seek to link Mr. Kerry and the Democratic Party to any disorder.
 ''I think the Democrats are going to have to be careful about not letting the protesters get out of hand,'' Mr. Gillespie said. ''The line between the official Democratic Party and labor protesters, environmental protesters and antiwar protesters is fairly blurry, and I'm not sure they want to have Democrats engaging in violence in New York against our convention. It would seem disrespectful and antidemocratic.''
 Another senior convention organizer said: ''You know the protesters are going to be here. You know you're going to have a full story. I look at that as a wave: not a wave to stand in front of, but a wave you have got to ride.''
 Ms. Cutter said the Democratic Party was not involved in any demonstrations, and blamed them on Mr. Bush.
 ''This president has spent the last four years dividing people and never taking responsibility for his failed record and its impact on average Americans,'' she said. ''Any protests that might take place will likely reflect that.''
 Mr. Bush's aides said the president would not back away from recalling the attacks of Sept. 11 in drawing a contrast with Mr. Kerry. Mr. Bush is not planning to visit ground zero while he is in New York, but an aide said the events of Sept. 11 would provide an emotional fulcrum for his nomination speech. Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor, is welcoming the delegates to New York on Aug. 30 with a speech devoted almost entirely to the events of that day, an aide said.
 Bush aides said any concern they had about being accused of exploiting the issue had disappeared when Democrats included a tribute to victims of the attack at their convention in Boston.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Zell Miller of Georgia, a Democrat estranged from his party, will lead the lineup of speakers as the Republican convention tries to offer television viewers a moderate face and a theme of ''compassion.'' (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); TERRORISM (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); MARRIAGE LAW (73%); MARRIAGE (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); HIJACKING (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (54%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (53%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Conventions, National (US); Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC); Presidential Election of 2004; Demonstrations and Riots; Television; United States Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (79%); KARL ROVE (59%) George W (Pres) Bush; Adam Nagourney; John (Sen) Kerry; Zell (Sen) Miller; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Washington (DC) 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



513 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2178 words

HEADLINE: A County Party, Old but No Longer So Grand 

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: YONKERS 

 BODY:
STATE Senator Nicholas Spano has been around Westchester politics long enough to see an important shift: It used to be politically helpful to him to be a Republican in Westchester. Now, put simply, it isn't.
 So when President Bush and the rest of the nation's Republican Party descend on New York City this month for their convention, they will of course have Mr. Spano's support -- but it will be given quietly. 
 ''Now we're at the point with George Bush where it's polarized,'' he said. ''The majority of Democrats hate George Bush, and the majority of Republicans don't like John Kerry. What we have to do is make our own mark and get our own message out to voters in a very targeted way. 
 ''Westchester is a much different place to run now than it was,'' he added.
 That could almost be an understatement. An influx of Democratic-leaning voters from the city over the last decade, coupled with a leftward trend in suburbs all over the metropolitan area, has upended the Republican machine that produced Gov. George E. Pataki, Mr. Spano and other successful politicians. Registered Democrats now outnumber Republicans by 65,000, or more than four to three.
 In that same time, the party has lost control of the county executive's office as well as the state legislature and a number of county judgeships, to say nothing of the number of local offices that have switched to Democratic hands. 
 Moreover, with the continuing northward flow of Democratic-leaning city-dwellers -- many of them members of minorities -- the swing left has staying power. Until recently, such shifts were more transitory, pegged not to migrating populations but to Republican political failures: Johnson's landslide victory over Goldwater in 1964, for instance, or the backlash against Watergate in the 1970's. 
 In the words of Reginald LaFayette, who is commissioner of elections for the county's Democrats and most likely the next party chairman, ''I fully expect the trend to continue to move in our direction.'' 
 In the county that welcomed Bill and Hillary Clinton as residents four years ago, the presidential-year vote is now so lopsided at the top of the ticket that it imperils all but the best-established Republican candidates at the bottom. And despite the Republicans' best efforts, little of Westchester residents' recent anger over soaring tax rates has translated into disenchantment with the Democratic incumbency. 
 For politically ambitious young Republicans like Richard Hoffman, the climate is daunting. Mr. Hoffman, 33, an unapologetic conservative with a background in financial services, has taken on the unenviable task of running against Representative Nita Lowey, a four-term incumbent from Westchester who faced only token opposition in her last campaign.
 Using language that could have come almost word for word from a Westchester Democrat just a decade ago, Mr. Hoffman said recently that people he had been talking to were just happy to have an alternative to the party in power. He hopes, he added, to counter his opponent's monetary and organizational advantages with sweat and grassroots engagement.
 ''It does take a lot of work to overcome those sorts of advantages,'' Mr. Hoffman conceded, ''but that's one of the reasons we've just been trying to stay so visible.'' He has been campaigning door to door every day with a band of mostly young volunteers. ''You're really not going to outspend Nita Lowey, but were just trying to work harder,'' he said. ''That's how you do it.'' 
 And those Republican veterans still in office -- those who have managed to weather the storm: how do they do it? 
 ''Obviously,'' said George Oros, minority leader of the county Board of Legislators, ''we can't set the agenda and that's very frustrating at times, and we sort of have to play defense. We just don't have the votes anymore.''
 Mr. Oros is now one of 6 Republicans in a body of 17. When he started out in 1995, the numbers were reversed, with 11 Republicans and 6 Democrats.
 As for Mr. Spano, he has family name recognition to help his defensive game -- with 13 of 15 siblings still living in Yonkers, and a politician father. In a recent interview in his office in a corporate park in Yonkers, he explained that he was used to running in heavily Democratic districts and that the trick was to distinguish himself in any election by his individual reputation, rather than by his partisan associations. But he was quick to point to the source of that reputation.
 ''People already know the Spano name,'' he said. ''My family's sort of commitment generated a lot of good will, and that was the name that we ran on, not based on politics, but on community.''
 Of course, the way things are now, Mr. Spano acknowledged, there is no easy answer for Republicans who are not already established.
 ''It's becoming more and more difficult,'' he said, ''because basically as a Democrat, if you get your name on the ballot and it's not a hotly contested race, you win the election. That's just the way it happens now. It doesn't mean that everyone has to be the oldest of 16 children with generations of roots in the community to win, but it does mean that you have to work a lot harder to get your message out, and to get people to relate to you in some way, shape or form.''
 As the electorate has evolved, so has Mr. Spano. Once staunchly anti-abortion, he has become one of the leading abortion-rights voices in the Republican caucus in Albany. He talks regularly and loudly of favoring gay rights and increasing the minimum wage. And Mr. Spano, who once drew most of his support from conservative white Catholic voters, now rides on a float in Westchester's annual Puerto Rican Day parade, which he describes as one of his favorite events of the year. 
 ''If you try to approach the electorate in Westchester representing the right-wing agenda of intolerance,'' Mr. Spano said, ''you're not going to be accepted by a majority of voters in Westchester.'' 
 The best thing going for the Republicans, he added, is that many of the people who move to the county become ''unconscious'' Republicans, in that they vote for Republican incumbents on the local level in order to preserve the communities they have just moved into.
 Another Republican veteran in Westchester -- one who could hardly be called unconscious and would prefer to be thought of as nonpartisan -- is Jeanine Pirro, the ubiquitous, made-for-television district attorney. Once politically ambitious enough to have planned a Senate campaign (until her husband was indicted on charges of tax fraud), Ms. Pirro now presents herself as the hardest-working -- and least party-oriented -- elected official in the county.
 ''Look, there's no question that this is a Democratic county,'' she said, talking frenetically as she searched through a mound of folders and message slips on her desk in the Westchester County Supreme Court building in White Plains. ''The numbers are very clear. As a Republican, you are already in the losing column, and my message is the protection of the most vulnerable, and I can't in any way label or direct that message to a particular party.''
 While acknowledging that things had changed during her four terms in office, Ms. Pirro insisted that her party affiliation would be the same if she were starting out today.
 ''I am who I am, and that's never going to change,'' she said. ''The core person will always be a law enforcement, tough-on-crime prosecutor, and I can't compromise that. If your question is, 'If before you became who you are, would you have reconsidered your party in light of your constituency?,' the answer is no, I am who I am.'' 
 Ms. Pirro also maintained that the shift in the electorate had barely inconvenienced her as a prosecutor, pointing to her officially nonpartisan mandate and her bipartisan staff as proof.
 Yet there was one positive effect she emphasized about being a Republican in Westchester.
 ''It makes me work harder,'' she said, because ''I have to make sure the public understands'' what the office does. 
 She added, ''It makes me need to convince the electorate that I'm doing my job in the most ethical, professional way.''
 Asked if that meant she needed to spend more time marketing the office to voters, Ms. Pirro said, ''I've always been a public person, because if you're silent in a position where the public is relying on you, then you don't get the message to criminals to deter them, you don't get the message to victims to come forward.''
 As a further illustration of how she had adapted to the changing population of Westchester, she noted that she had just recorded a public service announcement in Spanish.
 While well-established and popular Republicans like Mr. Spano and Ms. Pirro remain safe, that is probably cold comfort to young Republican hopefuls like Mr. Hoffman. 
 But Mr. Spano does have a pitch -- a purely pragmatic one -- for prospective Republican talent: Because there are fewer people in the party, it offers a less crowded route to prominence.
 ''For people who want to join the Democratic Party to be involved, that certainly is an option,'' he said. ''But there are a lot more people in the Democratic Party now, and a lot more on the farm team. If you approach the bench as a Republican, it is much more challenging and difficult, but there is less competition for candidates. That's really the way to look at it.'' 
 As for Mr. Hoffman, he firmly indicated that nothing would make him play down his party affiliation. While he recognized that he was at a registration disadvantage -- approximately three to two Democratic in the newly redrawn district -- he said he had no intention of minimizing what he stood for. 
 ''I'm clearly running as a Republican,'' he said. ''I don't walk away from that at all. Those are some of the ideals that I firmly believe in -- personal responsibility, lower taxes, smaller government, keeping the homeland safe. Those are the issue were running on, and I'm proud of it.'' 

Change, by the Numbers

LEGISLATURE
 When the Republican leader, George Oros, was elected to the Westchester Board of Legislators in 1995, his party held a comfortable five-person majority over the Democrats. In retrospect, that period has come to be seen as the end of a sort of golden age for the G.O.P. in Westchester county government. In 1997, the Democrats gained control of the board for the first time in 97 years, eking out a close race to win a 9-to-8 majority. Since then, the Democrats have expanded their majority by two, a mirror image of the numbers a decade ago. The minority members now complain that they are virtually powerless.

EXECUTIVE
 In the 1997 race to replace the retiring Republican county executive, Andy O'Rourke, Mayor Ted Dunn of Rye spent about $3 million of his own money only to lose to Andy Spano, a Yorktown resident and former county clerk. It was only the second time the Republicans had lost control of the office, and the first time since 1982. Mr. Dunn fared worse than almost anyone predicted, winning an anemic 40 percent of the vote. Worse, he was beaten in all of the county's cities except Rye and lost in all towns except traditional Republican bastions like Eastchester, Lewisboro, Mount Pleasant, North Castle, North Salem, Pelham and Pound Ridge.
 Mr. Spano was re-elected in 2001 in a completely noncompetitive race, winning 73 percent of the vote. The Republican Party has yet to produce a formidable candidate to run in 2005.

ENROLLMENT
 In 1973, when Republicans had a lock on political power in Westchester, they also enjoyed a huge enrollment advantage: there were approximately 50,000 more registered Republicans, at a time when the overall population of the county was considerably smaller than it is today. A steady stream of New York City escapees to suburban Westchester gradually swelled the ranks of registered Democrats throughout the 1970's and early 1980's, until the Republicans were overwhelmed. 
 In 1989, Westchester had 163,259 Democrats and 152,447 Republicans, according to the Westchester Board of Elections. By the mid-1990's, fueled by an influx of Spanish-speaking immigrants, the gap between the parties surpassed 30,000. Today the ethnic, economic and partisan makeup of the county is unrecognizable when compared with numbers from a decade ago, let alone two or three. There are currently 144, 679 Republicans registered in the county, while the number of Democrats has grown to 208, 761. 

PRESIDENTIAL VOTE
 In 1964, heavily Republican Westchester voted in the presidential election for Lyndon Johnson, a Democrat. Despite the fact that Johnson won all over the state, his victory in Westchester was held up as an illustration of the extent of Barry Goldwater's defeat.
 It would be 28 years before the county again voted for a Democrat: In 1992 Bill Clinton carried his home-county-to-be against George H.W. Bush, winning just under half of the vote. In 1996, Bob Dole lost to Mr. Clinton by more than 56 percent. And in 2000, George W. Bush lost Westchester to Al Gore by 62,000 votes, winning only 37 percent of the vote to Mr. Gore's 58. 


CORRECTION-DATE: August 29, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the Republican Party's shifting status in Westchester misstated the tenure of Representative Nita Lowey, a Democrat from the county. She has served eight terms in Congress, not four. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''What, me worry?'' Some of the party mascots in Senator Spano's office.
District Attorney Jeanine Pirro and State Senator Nicholas Spano are among the few remaining Republican politicians in the county. Mr. Spano's advice to young and ambitious Republicans: avoid an ''agenda of intolerance.'' Richard Hoffman, above, a Republican running against Representative Nita Lowey, greets a voter in Sleepy Hollow. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 Richard Hoffman, center, a G.O.P. newcomer, is running against Representative Nita Lowey, a four-term incumbent. He and a volunteer, Jeremy Gosbee, chatted with a voter last weekend in Bronxville. (Photo by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TRENDS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); COUNTIES (88%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); CITIES (71%); SUBURBS (66%); JUDGES (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Politics and Government

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); NITA M LOWEY (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%) Josh Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Westchester County (NY); Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



514 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; CAMPAIGN 2004: NEMESIS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: In a New Book, Buchanan Chastises Another Bush

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative commentator whose Republican primary challenge and divisive convention speech weakened the first President Bush's campaign for re-election in 1992, is publishing a book excoriating the second President Bush over the invasion of Iraq, just in time to grab a share of the limelight at another Republican convention.
 The arguments in the book, ''Where the Right Went Wrong,'' which was released late last week, may be familiar, at least to readers of his magazine, The American Conservative, which was founded as a forum for opposition from the right to the invasion of Iraq. Calling the invasion ''the greatest strategic blunder in 40 years,'' Mr. Buchanan writes, ''If prudence is the mark of a conservative, Mr. Bush has ceased to be a conservative.'' 
 But the release of the book, which coincides with the Republican National Convention, gives Mr. Buchanan a new occasion to lay out his case on television and in book promotions just as the Bush campaign seeks to project an image of unity.
 ''He has a following in conservative circles,'' said Paul Weyrich, a veteran conservative organizer. ''It is not what it once was just because the religious right is not particularly enamored with him. But it is going to have an effect.''
 In an interview, however, Mr. Buchanan said publishing a book during the campaign was the best way he knew to inject what he considers important ideas into the debate. ''The reason I wanted it out now is, it addresses big issues that are not being addressed in this campaign: the massive and growing deficit, the disintegration of the culture and a Wilsonian foreign policy that means war ad infinitum,'' he said. 
 On war, trade and immigration, ''both Kerry and Bush have agreed on the positions that are producing this,'' he said. ''True conservatives are not getting a hearing.''
 Mr. Buchanan also stood by his address at the 1992 Republican convention, which alarmed many moderates with talk of a ''culture war,'' saying that if the first President Bush had heeded the speech he might have won re-election.
 He said: ''Was I not right? When you take a look at how everybody says there is a dividing line between red states and blue states, and the dividing line is between people who go to church at least once a week and people who don't, there is a culture war going on in this country.'' Moral and social issues were winners for the Republicans, he argued, which is why the Democrats tried to keep the focus on the economy in 1992.
 His new book reprises some of the themes of his 1992 speech, likening the task facing cultural conservatives to that of soldiers sweeping black neighborhoods after riots. 
 But in the main Mr. Buchanan's book may be the most thorough exposition yet of the conservative case against the invasion of Iraq. He notes that American conservatives have traditionally opposed foreign interventions, and that Mr. Bush campaigned against ''nation building.'' But after Sept. 11, he argues, Mr. Bush embraced the views of a group of neoconservative thinkers who Mr. Buchanan contends had been looking to justify a march on Baghdad. 
 He aims some of his fiercest attacks at Mr. Bush's frequent statement that perceptions of weakness, not the use of force, invite terrorist attacks. Mr. Buchanan contends that containment has often proven an effective strategy, while intervention sows the seeds of terrorism.
 Noting that he criticized the first President Bush for the first gulf war, Mr. Buchanan quotes himself campaigning as the Reform Party candidate in 2000. ''How can all our meddling not fail to spark some horrible retribution?'' he said then. ''Have we not suffered enough -- from Pan Am 103 to the World Trade Center [bombing of 1993] to the embassy bombings in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam -- not to know that interventionism is the incubator of terrorism? Or will it take some cataclysmic atrocity on U.S. soil to awaken our global gamesmen to the going price of empire?''
 Still, Mr. Buchanan said he could not bring himself to support another candidate. ''Conservative differences with a party led by John Kerry are monumental and legion,'' he wrote. In the interview, Mr. Buchanan said of the antiwar candidacy of Ralph Nader: '' I like Ralph very much. He has been enormously courageous on trade issues and on the war issue, but I am right-to-life all the way.'' 
 David Frum, a supporter of the war who wrote an article in The National Review last year criticizing Mr. Buchanan and his allies as ''unpatriotic conservatives,'' said that ambivalence betrayed inconsistency. ''If Pat Buchanan supports President Bush for re-election, that shows a guy who in the end is unwilling to follow his logic where it leads him,'' Mr. Frum said. ''Pat Buchanan said that the United States brought the 9/11 attacks on itself -- he said that within a week of 9/11. It is not surprising that a man who believes in negotiating with terrorists -- wooing them, trying to find what they want and giving it to them -- is going to be unsatisfied in George Bush's Republican Party.''
 About Mr. Frum's criticism, Mr. Buchanan said, ''I take that as vindication that we were right in speaking out at a time when everybody else was going along with the war.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); IMMIGRATION (68%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (67%); RELIGION (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); TERRORISM (59%) Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues; Books and Literature; Presidential Election of 2004; Conservatism (US Politics)

PERSON: David D Kirkpatrick; Patrick J Buchanan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



515 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; NEWS AND ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2270 words

HEADLINE: In Mr. Bush's Neighborhood, A Peculiar Intersection

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
THE relationship between President Bush and Wall Street has always been a tangled one, layered with paradox and outright contradiction.
 On the stump, the president can come across as a prairie populist, describing investment-banking practices as ''fancy footwork'' and calling the stock market boom of the 1990's feckless, ''pie in the sky'' investing. 
 Yet, as the grandson and nephew of patrician East Coast bankers -- on his mother's side as well as his father's -- President Bush has raised millions of dollars from Wall Street to finance his brief career as an oil wildcatter and his two presidential campaigns. And his fiscal policies, which include sweeping cuts in dividend and capital gains taxes, could be the most pro-Wall Street since Ronald Reagan began cutting taxes in 1981. 
 Still, for the most part, President Bush has kept bankers at arm's length in his administration. In fact, he is the first Republican president since Dwight D. Eisenhower to not appoint a Treasury secretary from Wall Street, though there is speculation that this may change if he is re-elected. 
 If President Bush seems conflicted about Wall Street, the feeling may be mutual. Although the Republican National Convention, to be held next week in New York, has been financed in part by large sums of Wall Street money, the debate over the president's policies is full-throated, drawing in some of the financial industry's biggest names.
 The president's supporters argue that his tax-cutting policies have stabilized uncertain markets, freeing capital for new investments and setting the stage for the next bull market. They see him as a man of rectitude and conviction, a fellow businessman imbued with boardroom gravitas who understands the value of a corporate America largely unfettered by taxes and regulation. More important, they view him as a wartime president, deserving of their support. 
 ''I liked his response to terrorism,'' said John J. Mack, the former co-chief executive of the Credit Suisse Group and a prominent fund-raiser who has met with Mr. Bush several times. ''He is not a flip-flopper, and it is clear that he will make the tough decisions.''
 Conversely, the president's detractors on Wall Street argue that his tax cuts are elitist and have resulted in ballooning deficits that could lead to the next stock market crash. They see his attempt to distance himself from the Street as part of his persona and say that his tax policies, though personally enriching for them, are irresponsible in the long run. 
 ''PRESIDENT BUSH has put a lot of money in my pocket but I think his policies are a disaster,'' said Steven Rattner, the founding partner of the Quadrangle Group, a private equity boutique, and an adviser to Senator John Kerry, Mr. Bush's Democratic opponent. 
 Even some Wall Street Republicans who say they expect to vote for President Bush voice concerns about the deficit as well as the fairness of a tax cut that makes rich people even richer. ''My own feeling about the dividend tax cut is that I would not have done it,'' said Kenneth G. Langone, an enthusiastic Republican and co-founder of Home Depot who owns more than $700 million of the company's stock and runs his own investment bank. ''It has meant millions to me, but I would have felt better if you dedicate it to deficit reduction.''
 Whatever their views on his policies, few financial executives expect President Bush to reach out to Wall Street when he addresses the party faithful at the convention next week. 
 From a political perspective, it is easy to see why Mr. Bush has kept his distance. Just months after he took office in 2001, the Nasdaq market collapsed and he began to tilt away from Wall Street. That was a direct contrast to the approach of President Bill Clinton, who took every opportunity to celebrate a stock market that was soaring during much of his time in office. 
 Mr. Bush's original economic counselors, Paul H. O'Neill, as Treasury secretary, and Lawrence B. Lindsey, as chief economic adviser, were also Wall Street skeptics who saw bond traders as whimsical and the markets as frothy. These views, historians say, informed the president's own mistrust of Wall Street leaders. Mr. O'Neill was a former chief executive of Alcoa; Mr. Lindsey was a conservative economist.
 ''I think the president has a love-hate relationship with the Eastern establishment and that includes the money part of it,'' said Kevin Phillips, author of ''American Dynasty,'' a critical account of the Bush family's business and financial ties. ''He doesn't like the Wall Street stereotypes who are the gray flannel Eastern types. He didn't like them at Andover, and he didn't like them at Yale.''
 While Mr. Clinton made many a foray to Wall Street, once speaking from inside the New York Stock Exchange, Mr. Bush has been an infrequent visitor to Lower Manhattan. Like all presidents, he has met in private with financial executives, but his only official appearance -- not including his visits to the World Trade Center ruins -- was a less-than-successful attempt in July 2002 to bolster the market's morale in the face of a wave of corporate scandals.
 In speeches over the years, President Bush has taken pains to link the stock market malaise to recession, the shriveling of tax revenue and the growth of the deficit. And he has done so in a way that suggests that the market boom, under Mr. Clinton and his Treasury secretary, Robert E. Rubin, was irresponsible, driven by Internet and technology stocks that eschewed dividends. 
 ''I would call that the pie-in-the-sky economic period,'' Mr. Bush said last year as he presented his dividend tax cuts as a way to restore probity to corporate America. ''You know, 'Bet on us. Even though we don't have any cash, we've still got an interesting tale to tell, you know, the new economy.'''
 While he now criticizes this ''bet on us'' business mentality, President Bush's own first business venture, exploring for oil in the late 1970's, was also highly speculative in nature, paid little in dividends and lost money for its investors -- much like the Internet stocks that tumbled as he took office.
 And his disdain for what he has called the ''fancy footwork'' of investment bankers comes despite the fact that his grandfather, Prescott S. Bush, was a senior partner at Brown Brothers Harriman, perhaps the most exclusive of Wall Street's old-line investment houses. 
 Indeed, the president's family tree mirrors Wall Street's evolution over the past century. His great-grandfather, George Herbert Walker, founded his own investment bank, G.H. Walker & Company, in 1900; several mergers later, in 1978, it was acquired by Merrill Lynch. An uncle on his mother's side, Scott Pierce, was a former president of E.F. Hutton, a brokerage firm that was acquired in 1987 by Shearson (now part of Citigroup); his uncle Jonathan J. Bush ran a small money management operation that was later sold to Riggs Bank; and a second cousin, George Herbert Walker IV, is a managing director at Goldman Sachs. Mr. Bush's younger brother, Marvin, manages a series of hedge funds in suburban Virginia.
 When Mr. Bush was at Yale in the 1960's, the family history weighed heavily on him. ''He wanted to be rich,'' said Douglas Hannah, a friend of the president's, as recounted in ''First Son,'' by Bill Minutaglio. ''He wanted to possibly be a stockbroker because his great-uncle and uncle were stockbrokers.''
 But like his father, who spurned an offer to work at Brown Brothers, Mr. Bush turned his back on Wall Street; he chose instead to seek his fortune in the oil fields of Texas in the late 1970's. ''Both George Sr. and the president had the same hands-off, stay-away attitude with regard to Wall Street,'' said Mr. Pierce, the president's uncle. ''He is a Texan; that is where his ties are.''
 His Texas roots notwithstanding, Mr. Bush tapped into his Wall Street network to finance his venture as an oil speculator. His uncle Jonathan led the way, raising money from financial and corporate sources. When it failed to strike oil, the company, called Arbusto, fell on hard times, and the initial investors lost most of their stakes when oil prices plunged before it was merged into another company in 1984.
 Mr. Bush would have no further need for Wall Street advice, and as he started his run for national office, his economic team was largely devoid of bankers. 
 IN selecting his cabinet after winning the 2000 election, he reached deep into his father's administration to build his foreign policy team, but selected no one from that administration for a prominent economic post. Part of that was calculated politics: his father had been pilloried by conservatives for raising taxes, and any official close to that volte-face was immediately tainted in the eyes of the supply-side sympathizers close to the new president.
 But there may have also been a deeper reason: despite the Bush family's historical ties to Wall Street, the first President Bush was unable to lure a heavy financial hitter as Treasury secretary, like Mr. Rubin, who once ran Goldman Sachs; William E. Simon Sr., the prominent Salomon Brothers banker who served in the Nixon and Ford administrations; and Donald T. Regan, the former chief executive of Merrill Lynch who held the post under President Reagan. 
 The Treasury secretary in that first Bush administration was Nicholas F. Brady, who also served in that post for the last few months of the Reagan administration. He was an old friend of the president's who had a respectable career at Dillon Read but lacked the clout of many previous Wall Street executives. 
 Mr. Brady, now chairman of Darby Overseas Investors, an investment company, concedes that he has had no interaction with the current administration, but says he does not think that a banking pedigree is a prerequisite for being effective in the Treasury post. ''I don't think that Wall Street qualifications are needed. Look at George Shultz,'' he said, referring to Mr. Nixon's third Treasury secretary. ''What is needed more is a relationship with the president.''
 But the second President Bush was unable to cultivate any meaningful relationship with the Wall Street executives presented as potential candidates for his cabinet. Then again, not having a Wall Street executive in the Treasury might have made political sense at the time. 
 As a former oil industry executive, Mr. Bush had a crisp, keep-it-simple management style more in tune with the manners of conservative corporate chief executives than with the brasher, less risk-averse approach cultivated by Wall Street leaders.
 But now, given the emphasis that Mr. Bush has placed upon his capital gains and dividend tax cuts as a tonic for the markets, some people wonder whether he may reach out to a Wall Street executive for Treasury secretary in a second term. 
 With the stock markets still shaky and investors worried about the growing budget deficit and a possible surge in interest rates, the president may need an authoritative voice to make the case that, in the long run, none of this is likely to result in a stock market crash.
 ''Traditionally the better Treasury secretaries have come from Wall Street, dating back to Alexander Hamilton,'' said Bruce Bartlett, a deputy assistant secretary for economic policy under the first President Bush. ''It's good to have someone to calm fears. Rubin was good at it, and sometimes corporate guys just don't get it.''
 While the current Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, a former steel executive, has been a loyal soldier, he is seen by traders as being a fairly inconspicuous figure on Wall Street. But there is one senior Wall Street executive in the Bush administration: Stephen Friedman, who together with Mr. Rubin ran Goldman Sachs in the early 1990's. He is now director of the National Economic Council, the post that Mr. Rubin occupied before ascending to the Treasury.
 WHEREAS Mr. Rubin made his name as a trader, Mr. Friedman rose through the ranks at Goldman as an investment banker. Well regarded on Wall Street, he has not often been seen publicly since joining the administration in late 2002. And he may not have any intention or desire to follow Mr. Rubin into the cabinet.
 There is no indication so far that Mr. Snow's job is in jeopardy, but there is frequent turnover in a cabinet in a second administration. So is there anyone on Wall Street who has the right combination of charisma, scandal-free reputation and ability to calm volatile markets to handle the job? 
 The Wall Street rumor mill has churned out some names, like Henry M. Paulson Jr., the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, and E.Stanley O'Neal, Merrill Lynch's chief executive -- both whom have raised large sums for the president this year. 
 While Mr. Paulson may have the political background -- he served briefly in the Nixon administration -- people who know him say he has his hands full running Goldman Sachs. Mr. O'Neal, for his part, has raised more than $500,000 for the campaign, but he has been chief executive of Merrill for less than two years and has maintained a low public profile on the Street.
 Then there is Mr. Mack, who was forced out at Credit Suisse close to two months ago. He is an acquaintance of Vice President Dick Cheney, who played a crucial role in selecting the last two Treasury secretaries. 
 Mr. Mack would not comment on such speculation. All the same, he is willing to do his bit for the campaign -- whether raising money or engaging in some retail politics. ''If things get too quiet here, I may call down there,'' he said. ''The race is too close to call, but I think he will win.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 29, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the Bush administration's ties to Wall Street misstated the former occupation of John W. Snow, the Treasury secretary. He was chief executive of the CSX Corporation, the railroad company, not a steel executive. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Does President Bush need a Wall Street insider? John J. Mack, formerly of Credit Suisse, is among those mentioned for Treasury secretary. (Photo by Peter Lauth/Bloomberg News)(pg. 6)
 (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Wall Street's Wallets''Contributions to political campaigns by employees of financial firms and the political action committees of the companies.In millions as of July 5DONATIONS TO:GOLDMAN SACHS: $3.91Republicans: 50%Democrats: --MORGAN STANLEY: 1.99Republicans: 66%Democrats: --UBS AMERICAS*: 1.67Republicans: 62%Democrats: --Other: --MERRILL LYNCH: 1.51Republicans: 77%Democrats:LEHMAN BROTHERS: 1.33Republicans: 42%Democrats: --(Source by Center for Responsive Politics)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); TERRORISM (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; Conventions, National (US); Stocks and Bonds; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (84%); QUADRANGLE GROUP LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (84%); CS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); STEVEN RATTNER (58%); JOHN J MACK (50%) Landon Jr Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



516 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Not a Hooverville in Sight

BYLINE: By N. Gregory Mankiw. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
How is the economy doing? Some economists, pundits and politicians want you to think it's in terrible shape. This is ''the worst economic recovery period in terms of job creation that the nation has experienced since the Great Depression,'' said Laura D'Andrea Tyson, who was chairman of President Bill Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers. So many other pessimists have echoed her in drawing analogies to the 1930's, you might think that millions of Americans are living in Hoovervilles. 
 Nothing could be further from the truth. Let's look at the facts. In 1933, in the middle of the Great Depression, the unemployment rate peaked at 25 percent. Now it is 5.5 percent, having fallen from 6.3 percent in June 2003. Today's unemployment rate is exactly the same as it was eight years ago, when Ms. Tyson's boss was running for re-election. It is also lower than the average rate in each of the past three decades. 
 Wait, the pessimists tell us. Although economists have long viewed the unemployment rate as one of the best measures of the labor market, we are now supposed to ignore it. Unemployment has fallen, they say, only because the economy is so bad that people have become discouraged and given up looking for work.
 But that also does not square with the facts. The Bureau of Labor Statistics has a little-publicized alternative measure of unemployment, called the U-4, which includes those discouraged workers. And what does it show? About the same pattern as the standard unemployment rate: it peaked in June 2003 at 6.6 percent and has since fallen to 5.9 percent.
 Then the critics take another tack: yes, the economy is creating jobs, but the jobs are not good jobs. Again, a baseless claim. The truth is that there are no data on the characteristics of the new jobs, only data on employment by very broad industry or occupation categories. Different analysts using these imperfect data can reach wildly different conclusions. Even Larry Katz, the chief economist at the Labor Department in the Clinton administration, concedes the point. ''The dirty little secret is that no one is really looking at the quality of new jobs created,'' he told The Washington Post in June. ''We don't know within these broad occupational categories what the new jobs actually are.'' 
 Although it is impossible to say precisely what kinds of jobs are being created, we do know that the recovery is broad-based. Over the past year, employment is up in 46 out of 50 states, and the unemployment rate is down in 49. The unemployment rate has declined for people with all levels of education, and among all racial and ethnic groups. As far as anyone can tell, the economy is creating all kinds of jobs.
 None of this is to suggest, however, that the administration is satisfied with the current state of things. We are not. 
 President Bush inherited an economy that was sliding into recession after the high-tech bubble of the 1990's burst, and then came the terrorist attacks of 9/11. He acted decisively to jump-start the economy by giving tax relief to American families, and last year he and Congress passed a package to spur business investment by reducing the double taxation of dividends, expanding the expensing of equipment for small businesses and allowing temporary bonus depreciation.
 Now the economy is heading in the right direction. Over the past year, the gross domestic product has grown by 4.8 percent, among the fastest rates in 20 years, and the economy has shown a net gain of about 1.5 million jobs. The growth of the gross domestic product for the coming year is expected to remain well above the historical average of 3 percent. The unemployment rate is expected to continue its decline. On Aug. 10 the Federal Reserve noted that the economy ''appears poised to resume a stronger pace of expansion going forward.'' 
 Of course, there are always new challenges. High energy prices are now a drag on the economy, as well as a strain on family budgets. They point to the need for a comprehensive energy policy, as the president has long advocated. And over the longer run, reducing the budget deficit without raising taxes will require significant spending discipline. 
 But these challenges should not give anyone license to talk down the economy by distorting the facts. President Bush is exactly right when he says the economy is strong and that his policies are making it stronger.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Michelle Monish) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); POLITICS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); STATISTICS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); ETHNICITY (64%); ETHNIC GROUPS (60%) United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product; Labor

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%) N Gregory Mankiw; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



517 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2331 words

HEADLINE: The State of the George W. Bush Joke

BYLINE: By JASON ZENGERLE. 
Jason Zengerle is a senior editor at The New Republic.

 BODY:
IN December 1992, just weeks before departing office, President George Herbert Walker Bush invited Dana Carvey to the White House. Mr. Carvey had spent the previous four years impersonating Mr. Bush on ''Saturday Night Live'' as a patrician wimp, and turning Bushisms like ''it's ba-a-ad'' and ''wouldn't be pru-dent at this juncture'' into national punch lines. But as Mr. Carvey performed from behind a podium in the East Room, the president, according to press accounts, laughed and looked happier than he had in weeks. It wasn't hard to see why: the humor was gentle and apolitical, making light of minor personal foibles. Speaking with reporters afterward, Mr. Bush recalled a conversation with the comedian: ''He said, 'I hope I've never crossed the line.' And I knew exactly what he meant. And as far as I'm concerned he never has.'' 
 The second President Bush's relationship to comedy is a different story. To mangle a presidential line, the state of the George W. Bush joke is mean and partisan. On late-night shows, in political advertisements and in the fertile new realm of Internet comedy, jokes about the president are much harsher than were the jokes about his father or Bill Clinton, or even the jokes that were circulating when George W. Bush first took office. Back then, the president was teased about poor syntax and low I.Q. Now many Bush jokes portray the president as an irresponsible, duplicitous menace. In part, this change is due to an increasingly unpopular war and an unsteady economy. It also may be that all comedy has become harsher in recent years. But partly it is because, since Mr. Bush took office, the left has belatedly rediscovered humor as a political tool.
 The best indicator of the state of George W. Bush humor may be Will Ferrell. Like Mr. Carvey, Mr. Ferrell made a name for himself playing a President Bush on ''Saturday Night Live.'' Initially, Mr. Ferrell's impersonation was also of the kinder and gentler variety. During the 2000 campaign and the president's first years in office, Mr. Ferrell's Bush was a harmless, amiable dunce -- a man who answered ''strategery'' when asked to sum up his candidacy in one word, and who played with a ball of twine while his brother Jeb and Al Gore discussed the disputed election. Compared to Darrell Hammond's pompous, know-it-all Gore, Mr. Ferrell's Bush seemed downright likable. Which may be why the impersonation seemed to sit so well with Mr. Bush himself: shortly before the 2000 election Mr. Bush appeared on ''Saturday Night Live'' to poke fun at his malapropisms and, once in office, his top political adviser, Karl Rove, dubbed his weekly meeting of senior aides the ''Strategery Group.'' 
 It's doubtful anyone at the White House is laughing along with Mr. Ferrell now. Although he left ''Saturday Night Live'' in 2002, Mr. Ferrell recently reprised his Bush impersonation, first at a fund-raiser for the environmental organization the Natural Resources Defense Council in May and then in an Internet advertisement for the liberal political group America Coming Together released late last month. (The ad can be viewed at http://whitehousewest.com.) As Mr. Ferrell plays him today, the president is still a dunce, entranced by his Gameboy and terrified of a horse grazing innocently nearby. But he has become an ideologue. ''There are certain liberal agitators out there who'd like you to believe my administration is not doing such a good job,'' he warns in the ad. ''Of course, these are people such as Howard Stern, Richard Clark and the news.''
 At the fund-raiser, Mr. Ferrell's Bush, who was wearing a flight suit, boasted of his plan to replace logged ancient redwoods with ''substitute trees'' made out of red-painted plywood. He then told the crowd: ''Will I be able to do everything you people want? No. Frankly a lot of endangered species are going to be extincted. But this is part of evolution and natural selection. Which, by the way, I don't believe in.''
 Adam McKay, a former ''Saturday Night Live'' head writer who wrote the scripts for Mr. Ferrell's defense council performance and Internet ads, says: ''When we first started doing Bush on 'Saturday Night Live,' the 'Bush is dumb' joke was too good. But now, the more we've gotten to see how terrible his record is on things like the environment and how he struts and sneers and how cocky he can be, the more we've been able to refine the impersonation.''
 It wasn't long ago that the best Bush joke was no joke at all. After Sept. 11, 2001, many comedians declared a moratorium on Bush humor. And even when they were ready to end it, often their audiences weren't. ''For a decent number of weeks we'd test the waters in dress rehearsal with your basic, straightforward 'Bush isn't that smart' joke,'' recalls the former ''Saturday Night Live'' writer Mike Schur, ''and it would always get a decidedly negative response, so we had to toss it out.'' Of course, audiences eventually came around, and the respectful hush didn't last more than a few months. Before long, Jay Leno and David Letterman had returned to their ribbing. In the cases of Mr. Leno and Mr. Letterman, the Bush jokes are still harmless, mostly making light of the president's intellect and maturity, or lack thereof. (''You want to reach as wide an audience as possible,'' Mr. Leno said in an interview. ''If you get up there and say George Bush is evil, you've lost half the crowd.'')
 But by the time the Iraq war started, on shows like ''Saturday Night Live'' and ''The Daily Show,'' something unusual happened: the jokes got serious. While these shows now treat John Kerry as they once treated Mr. Bush, mocking the Democratic nominee for harmless personal characteristics like his long face and stentorian voice, their jokes about Mr. Bush are unapologetically political, directly criticizing the administration and its actions. Last December on ''Saturday Night Live,'' the ''Weekend Update'' host Tina Fey ridiculed the Bush administration's distribution of lucrative Iraq rebuilding contracts. ''We should reward the brave American businessmen and businesswomen who fought so hard to free Iraq from evil,'' she said. ''Let us not forget the brave Halliburton executives that stormed Baghdad . . . or the fearless Nextel c.f.o. who threw himself on a grenade.''
 Jon Stewart, the host of ''The Daily Show,'' has repeatedly insisted that he's nonpartisan (''I'm a Whig,'' he recently told Fox News). But lately his Bush jokes have started to seem like a sustained argument with the president, as when Mr. Bush recently made a speech in which he declared, eight times, that as a result of the war in Iraq ''America is safer.'' Speaking directly to a videotaped image of the president, Mr. Stewart demanded: ''What criteria are you using to prove this? What evidence is there other than you saying it?'' But thanks to a montage, the president only repeated the claim. ''So that's what it comes down to,'' Mr. Stewart intoned. ''The Bush administration's strategy to fight terrorism is repetition.'' 
 As professional comedians hack away at the president, political professionals are trying to put Bush jokes to work. Back in the 1960's the left had just about cornered the market on ideological humor. Performers like Lenny Bruce mixed politics with smart comedy, making the right seem square and humorless in contrast. After Abbie Hoffman and the Yippies disappeared from the scene in the mid-70's, though, lefty politics took a turn for the earnest, the sensitive and the politically correct. But the recent success of Mr. Stewart, as well as best-selling authors like Michael Moore and Al Franken, may have convinced Democratic strategists of the value of comedy. ''One of the reasons people get involved in politics is social,'' says Sarah Leonard, a spokeswoman for the liberal group America Coming Together, which is running anti-Bush voter registration drives in 17 swing states. ''And people want to belong to something that's fun and has a lot of energy behind it.''
 That was the thinking behind America Coming Together's Will Ferrell ad, and it's worked: the group says that since its debut late last month, the ad has been downloaded more than a million times and has enticed 30,000 people to sign up as volunteers. Meanwhile, the liberal group MoveOn has come up with its own funny anti-Bush spot, to be introduced on Tuesday, that features the actor Donal Logue reprising his hilarious Jimmy the Cab Driver character -- last seen on MTV promos in the mid-90's -- as a clueless Bush supporter. ''Jimmy's support for Bush,'' says Laura Dawn, MoveOn's director of culture and events, ''is a pretty effective and fun way of exposing the ludicrous nature of the Bush administration's policies.''
 And it's not just political pros putting Bush jokes to political use. The spirit seems to have also taken hold at the grass roots. When MoveOn held a ''Bush in 30 Seconds'' contest last fall in which it asked people to come up with their own anti-Bush ads, it received more than 1,500 submissions -- a number of them making their political points with humor. One particularly inspired home-made ad titled ''If the Bush Administration Was Your Roommate'' featured a belligerent twentysomething guy wreaking havoc on his group house, unilaterally deciding to paint it green and refusing to wash his dishes. This same lightheartedness will be on display among some of the protesters at the Republican National Convention next week. ''Billionaires for Bush,'' for example -- the political street theater group that features protestors in tuxes and ball gowns chanting slogans like ''Blood for Oil'' and ''Small Government, Big Wars'' -- has planned a ''Million Billionaire March'' and a ''Vigil for Corporate Welfare.'' ''The left has a way of frying out its activists with so much negativity and anger,'' says Elana Levin, a member of Greene Dragon, another liberal street-theater group that will be going for laughs during its protests. ''We want to be able to keep people involved in progressive politics, and making it something that's a source of pleasure and joy is part of that.''
 The greatest evidence of this new jokey spirit on the left can be found on the Internet, which is home to hundreds if not thousands of independent sites put up by random people who happen to have a political grudge and a sense of humor. Shortly after 9/11, David Rees launched a cartoon strip called ''Get Your War On'' (www.mnftiu.cc/mnftiu.cc/war.html). While the mainstream media were still waving flags and speaking in hushed tones, Mr. Rees was attracting a devoted following for his devastatingly sarcastic take on the news. (''Oh my God, this War on Terrorism is gonna rule!'' one of the strip's cast of office drones says in the first installment. ''I know!'' the other drone replies. ''Remember when the U.S. had a drug problem, and then we declared a War on Drugs, and now you can't buy drugs anymore? It'll be just like that!'') The strip eventually migrated beyond the Web into a book and onto the pages of Rolling Stone magazine.
 Of course, for every Web site like ''Get Your War On,'' there are countless more that are very mildly funny at best and plain old stupid at worst. Some traffic in unflattering pictures of the president, like allhatnocattle.net, which shows him picking his nose. And many sites, like toostupidtobepresident.com, are so enamored of the Web's visual possibilities that they assault viewers with animations of Mr. Bush doing supposedly funny things like commanding a Star Trek-style space ship (the ''U.S.S. Enron Prize'') and playing the role of Winnie the Pooh (''George Double Yooh'') to Tony Blair's Christopher Robin.
 ''None of the Bush humor on the Internet is very good,'' says Ana Marie Cox, the voice of the popular political humor blog wonkette.com. She says she is deluged with e-mail messages directing her to Bush humor sites. ''It's gotten to the point now that when I see a flash animation start, I just think, 'This can't be worth the bandwidth.' '' 
 By rediscovering the potential of humor, Democrats have unwittingly provided Republicans, too, with new opportunities. Whoopi Goldberg's monologue at a Kerry fund-raiser last month -- during which she turned the president's name into a sexual pun -- may have gotten a few laughs, or even attracted a few donations. But it was a windfall for the Bush cause, which kept it in play for days as evidence that Mr. Kerry doesn't ''share the same values'' as the rest of America.
 Even without Republican commentary, Bush jokes can serve to confuse the political issue. Is the president a simple-minded son of privilege who lucked his way into the White House? Then maybe he shouldn't be held responsible for the effects of his administration. And certainly he can't be a sinister mastermind of global domination. For some viewers, that was the problem with ''Fahrenheit 9/11'': if Mr. Bush is anywhere near as dumb as the film makes him out to be, how could he pull off the devious plot it attributes to him? 
 ''I think the caricature of Bush as a bumbler has helped him more than it's helped us,'' says Mike Feldman, a Democratic strategist who as a top adviser to Al Gore in 2000 saw this phenomenon first-hand. ''My own view is that we need to be talking about him in a different way, which has started to catch on in this cycle: he knows exactly what he's doing, he's very calculating about it and he's just not looking out for you.''
 But perhaps the greatest limitation of the Bush joke as a political tool is that its audience is self-selecting. ''Humor is used to incite the faithful, not convince swing voters,'' says MoveOn's Laura Dawn. Or as David Cross, a comedian who has performed on behalf of several anti-Bush groups this year, concedes: ''I don't have any illusions that I'm going to change anybody's minds -- unless they just came out of a coma. The last two years I've been mostly preaching to the choir.'' But at least the choir is laughing.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Unflattering images of the president have proliferated on the Web: an anti-Bush cartoon at www.toostupidtobepresident.com. (pg. 21)
 Will Ferrell, in flight suit, as President Bush at a benefit for the Natural Resources Defense Council in Los Angeles this spring. The impersonation has shifted from a bumbler to an ideologue. (Photo by Fred Prouser/Reuters)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); TERRORISM (59%) Comedy and Humor; Television; Television; United States Politics and Government; Comedy and Humor; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Impersonations; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); GEORGE H W BUSH (90%); JON STEWART (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); AL GORE (58%); TINA FEY (57%) Jason Zengerle; Will Ferrell; Jon Stewart; George W (Pres) Bush; Tina Fey; Bill Clinton; George (Former Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



518 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: INSURERS OBJECT TO NEW PROVISION IN MEDICARE LAW

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
A major obstacle to the success of the new Medicare law has emerged in recent weeks: private insurers have told the Bush administration that they will not expand their role in Medicare if they have to serve large multistate regions, as the White House wants.
 Congress sharply increased payments to private health plans last year in the hope that they would serve many more Medicare beneficiaries.
 But the Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans, the backbone of the nation's private health insurance system, and other insurers said it was not feasible for them to establish networks of doctors and hospitals spanning large regions like New England or the Midwest.
 They want the government to designate 50 regions, one for each state. That is the preference stated emphatically, in separate letters to the Bush administration, by the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and by America's Health Insurance Plans, the chief lobby for the health insurance industry. 
 A White House document describing President Bush's ideas for overhauling Medicare in March 2003 proposed ''large multistate regions,'' and it included a map showing 10 sample regions. 
 Large regions will force health plans to serve rural areas that they have historically shunned, administration officials say. Under this logic, if a health plan wanted lucrative Medicare business in Chicago and its suburbs, it would have to serve rural Illinois and Iowa and perhaps Nebraska as well.
 But Alissa Fox, policy director for the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, said, ''The only way to assure vibrant competition and expand choices for beneficiaries is to establish 50 state-based regions.''
 If the administration insists on multistate regions, Ms. Fox said, ''it will be virtually impossible for most private plans to be ready for 2006,'' when drug benefits and new insurance options are supposed to become available. The level of financial risk increases with the size of a region, she said, so insurers will need more capital and larger reserves to operate in a multistate region.
 Diana C. Dennett, executive vice president of America's Health Insurance Plans, said her group also ''strongly supports establishment of 50 regions.''
 Private plans will be discouraged from participating in Medicare if they have to get insurance licenses and sign contracts with doctors and hospitals in nearby states where they have never done business, Ms. Dennett said.
 ''In many rural areas,'' she said, ''providers are unwilling to contract with Medicare managed care plans,'' even at the rates paid by the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program.
 Several private plans are available to Medicare beneficiaries in the Boston area, for example. But, health policy experts say, those plans do not have contracts with doctors and hospitals in remote parts of New England.
 The new Medicare law envisions a huge role for private plans, starting in 2006. If beneficiaries stay in traditional Medicare, they can get subsidized drug coverage by buying private insurance policies that cover prescription drugs and nothing else. Alternatively, they can join a preferred provider organization or a health maintenance organization that covers drugs along with doctors' services and hospital care.
 The government must decide by Jan. 1 how to define the regions. Insurers say the configuration of regions will have a major effect on whether they participate.
 John C. Rother, policy director of AARP, the advocacy group for older Americans, said the debate over regional boundaries highlighted ''a clash between economic theory and the tradition of state-based insurance.'' Some economists say large regions will maximize competition among health plans, driving costs down. Insurers disagree.
 Under the law, prescription drug plans and preferred provider organizations must charge the same premiums to all beneficiaries in a region. One purpose of this requirement is to prevent insurers from discriminating against sicker patients. But insurers say it is unrealistic because costs vary widely in large multistate regions.
 Michael B. Unhjem, president of Blue Cross Blue Shield of North Dakota, said he would be interested in offering a managed care plan to Medicare beneficiaries in his state, where medical costs are relatively low. But he said it would be extremely difficult to create and sell ''a uniform product with no variance in premium throughout a region'' that includes higher-cost states.
 ''P.P.O.'s are usually configured to serve local or state regions, not multistate areas,'' said Mr. Unhjem, whose company has 80 percent of the market for private health insurance in North Dakota.
 Three Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans serve different parts of New York State. Deborah L. Bohren, senior vice president of Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield, which serves 28 of the state's 62 counties, said her company could conceivably form a joint venture with the other plans to serve the entire state. But she said she saw no way the company could care for Medicare beneficiaries in other states.
 The new law is intended to reverse the decline in the number of Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in private plans. From a peak of 6.3 million, or 16 percent of beneficiaries, in late 1999, the number fell to 4.6 million, or 11 percent, at the end of 2003. With the new law, the Bush administration predicts that 33 percent of beneficiaries will be in private plans by 2009.
 Medicare officials and their advisers, from RTI International, a nonprofit research group based in North Carolina, are resisting the idea of single-state regions. In general, they say, a region needs at least 200,000 Medicare beneficiaries to support a preferred provider organization, and 11 states do not meet that test: Alaska, Delaware, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, New Hampshire, North Dakota, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Vermont and Wyoming.
 Richard L. Boals, president of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Arizona, said his company wanted to offer a preferred provider plan to Medicare beneficiaries, but could not do so if it had to serve people in other states. 
 ''It would simply be too cumbersome to operate a Medicare P.P.O. across state lines,'' Mr. Boals said, noting that his company did business only in Arizona.
 UnitedHealth Group is one of the few health plans with a nationwide network of doctors and hospitals. But Mark F. Lindsay, a spokesman for the company, said it had not expressed a preference for large multistate regions.
 Thomas A. Scully, former administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said Medicare patients would benefit from having ''the largest possible regions'' because they would then have more health plans from which to choose.
 ''If you want multiple competing plans,'' Mr. Scully said, ''you need multistate regions.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (96%); HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Hospitals; Rural Areas; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION (92%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA'S HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS (56%) Blue Cross and Blue Shield Assn

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (92%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004



519 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: A company hopes the limits of radio ratings will provide an opening to measure listeners in cars.

BYLINE: By Nat Ives

 BODY:
A THREE-YEAR-OLD company plans to describe a new service today that will measure radio audiences in cars, combining global positioning technology and continuous tracking of the radio dial to challenge Arbitron, the dominant radio ratings provider.
 The service, from Navigauge, is not likely to weaken Arbitron's grip, but it may remind radio executives and advertising agencies that established ratings systems have room to improve, executives said. Arbitron generates its data by asking consumers to record their listening habits in paper diaries.
 Howard Nass, a principal at Nass-Hitzig Media, a media services and consulting company, found fault with Arbitron's methods, saying the company depends on consumers' recollections, uses small samples and has low cooperation rates. ''That has to be fixed,'' he said, ''because there are billions of dollars going into radio.'' 
 Advertisers may spend more than $20 billion on radio this year. The medium collected $19.6 billion in ad revenue last year, up from 2002 and 2001 but still shy of the record set in 2000, when revenue was $19.8 billion, according to the Radio Advertising Bureau, an industry association.
 The challenge of accurately measuring audiences is not limited to radio. Nielsen Media Research, the VNU unit that dominates television ratings in the United States, has battled public relations and legal challenges in its effort to replace its diary system with personal electronic ''people meters.'' 
 Events have also called into question the reliability of print circulation figures. Newsday, The Chicago Sun-Times and the Spanish-language daily Hoy have recently acknowledged that they falsely increased their circulation figures. That has heightened scrutiny of the Audit Bureau of Circulations, which verifies circulation figures.
 Meanwhile, the radio business has been caught in its own tangles. Most recently, the radio giant Infinity Broadcasting threatened to stop using Arbitron. After a monthlong standoff, Infinity and Arbitron said last Tuesday that they had reached a multiyear deal.
 All the dust-ups have only heightened longstanding industry agitation over ratings.
 ''Even before advertisers and their agencies became increasingly obsessed over return on investment in the last year or so, there was always a concern over 'am I getting what I'm buying?''' said James Boyle, a broadcast analyst and managing director at Wachovia Capital Markets. 
 Navigauge executives are betting that shortcomings in the system will provide an opportunity for them. ''For a long time, the radio industry itself has lamented the fact that it gets a large percentage of consumers' media consumption but a disproportionately small share of advertising revenue,'' said Tim Cobb, chief executive at Navigauge in Atlanta. ''That's based on the fact that they cannot articulate to advertisers the value that they are delivering.''
 Navigauge has developed its technology with $6.5 million in funding from institutional investors like Skyterra Communications and the Armada Venture Group. It has sought input -- and income -- from marketers including Coca-Cola and McDonald's, who have helped the company pay for an Atlanta test run that fitted more than 500 cars and trucks with the videotape-size Navigauge device. It hopes to be operational in the 10 largest markets by early 2006, and in the top 20 markets by later that year, finances permitting. 
 Mr. Cobb said the second-by-second analysis of listening and location made the Navigauge approach worth exploring. ''We're not going to bash Arbitron, because I think they do a good job with the information they have, given the way they collect it,'' he said. ''But when we've done a comparison of a diary to actual behavior, the results are radically different.''
 Arbitron executives said that it was insufficient to measure listeners only in cars, despite the importance of drive-time radio. ''Radio needs a service that captures the entire day, the entire audience,'' said Thom Mocarsky, vice president for communications at Arbitron in New York. ''That's what we do now. It's not perfect, but we do it.''
 Like Nielsen, Arbitron has been trying to abandon paper diaries. It is winding down a test of people meters in Philadelphia and preparing for a bigger test next year in Houston, to run through early 2006. The meters, which resemble pagers and must be worn throughout the day, detect inaudible codes that can be embedded in radio and television programming.
 But Arbitron has so far failed to convince broadcasters like Cox Radio, Infinity and Radio One to embed the necessary codes. ''We would do anything to help our advertisers get better information,'' said Joel Hollander, president and chief operating officer at Infinity, a Viacom unit that owns about 180 radio stations in 22 states. But he said that the cost of embedding the codes might be a problem, especially when broadcasters were uncertain how expensive or effective they would be. ''The broadcasters help fund it,'' he said.
 Mr. Mocarsky, the Arbitron vice president, said that about 35 cable networks and 5o Houston radio and television stations have installed encoders that can be used in the Houston test.
 Navigauge, meanwhile, will seek slices of the ratings business. The company hopes that its capacity to track participants' cars through the global positioning system will add new layers of useful information for marketers. For example, the company can tell where drivers stop for lunch and whether radio commercials can change people's destinations. The global positioning capacity could also provide information on the amount of traffic moving past billboards, aiding the outdoor ad industry in the notoriously difficult task of measuring signage exposure. 
 Frannie Wellings, a policy analyst at the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a Washington advocacy group devoted to privacy issues, said people who agreed to drive around with Navigauge boxes under their hoods might not realize the implications until later. ''When you ask people to start in something like that, they are initially active in the decision, but they don't know what's going to be inferred from their habits,'' she said. ''Later on they actually might find themselves stuck in sort of a profile about a certain area and how they participate by listening to advertisements.''
 Then again, in the imperfect world of media ratings, some might call that progress.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tim Cobb, left, the chief executive of Navigauge, and Carl Ceresoli, the president. Using the global positioning system and a videotape-size device, Navigauge wants to measure the radio audience in cars. (Photo by Barry Williams for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (92%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); RADIO ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%) Radio; Ratings and Rating Systems; Global Positioning System

COMPANY: ARBITRON INC (92%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (84%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (54%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: RADIO ADVERTISING BUREAU (55%) Navigauge (Co); Arbitron Co

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (92%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (92%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: Nat Ives

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2004



520 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Waddington Journal; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Young Fishing Wizards Seek Fame Upstate

BYLINE: By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: WADDINGTON, N.Y., Aug. 21 

 BODY:
Seventeen-year-old Abigail Backus reeled in a mighty 27.6-pound carp on Friday and was given a choice: Kiss the fish, or kiss the Englishman who helped her bring it to shore.
 She did not hesitate. ''I'll kiss the fish,'' she said, as she bent down and puckered up.
 The Englishman, Danny Henwood, could not have been more pleased. He was teaching her some of his country's customs in catching carp, an unusual-looking creature with a trunk-like mouth, which vacuums food from the river bottom. 
 It isn't enough to catch it, he said: you must soothe it, thank it and return it to the water with a kiss.
 Mr. Henwood was one of the marshals in the only children's carp-fishing tournament in the world, which was held along a 45-mile stretch of the St. Lawrence River, at New York State's northern border, this weekend. It brought about 125 children from across America, Canada and England. Though many were inspired by the lure of reeling in a fish than can grow up to 85 pounds, tournament organizers said, and a combined $30,000 in cash and prizes, some hoped to catch only a glimpse of celebrity.
 Tom Felton, another Englishman, who plays the bad boy of the Harry Potter films, Draco Malfoy, is a carp enthusiast and the reason the tournament began.
 According to event organizers, in August 2002, Mr. Felton's mother offered him a trip to anywhere in the world to celebrate the completion of filming of ''Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets,'' the second Harry Potter movie. 
 Tom chose eight days along the St. Lawrence River, an unspoiled haven for carp that is well known by Europeans but virtually unrecognized by Americans, who much prefer fishing for bass. Tom, 16, and his older brother, Chris Felton, fished night and day by a tent they pitched on the riverbank and caught an estimated 3,000 pounds of carp. 
 Karen St. Hilaire, the executive director of the St. Lawrence County Chamber of Commerce, was urged by a local fishing guide to visit the Felton brothers. Ms. St. Hilaire knew carp would sometimes show up at the end of a hook, but she saw no reason to try to catch one on purpose. ''It's a big ugly fish,'' she said. 
 Tom agreed to sponsor a junior tournament. Last year's tournament, the first, drew 100 children. 
 Tatyanna Malgutti, 14, from Watertown, Conn., was one of those instant carp converts. She's a member of Tom's fan club -- ''the official one,'' she specifies. 
 Her family learned about last year's tournament. Tatyanna and her family not only met Tom, Tatyanna fished and had a good time. At Christmas, she mailed him an umbrella with a fish design. He sent her a personal thank-you note.
 This year, she was back. He was not.
 He was filming the fourth Harry Potter movie and couldn't get away.
 The tournament seemed to be doing fine without him. The BBC covered it. Children ages 11 to 18 lined the banks from Massena to Ogdensburg. Some were boisterous, with their fathers cooking hot dogs on grills. Some who had not caught fish by the end of the first day were tearful. 
 Some competitors, like last year's winner, Warren Dolan, 16, of Essex, England, were deadly serious. Warren was trying to maximize efficiency by having one line in the water and another pole at the ready. Bystanders were as quiet as they would be in a library.
 But Warren was beat by a local boy, Connor Loomis, 12, of Waddington, whose four biggest fish weighed a combined 107 pounds, 31 pounds more than Connor himself, good enough to win the tournament and a $10,000 bonus.
 ''You have to put the pole between your legs to reel them in,'' he said. ''I had to have a guy hold on to me for one of them.''
 Angela Petersen, 17, of Crystal Lake, Ill., whom organizers described as last year's biggest Tom Felton fan, winced at the suggestion that she was here this year for anything but the fish. ''I'm first in my division,'' she said. 
 Next year, even more visitors are expected, when the World Carp Cup is held here, the first time it has been held in North America.
 ''The world championships are the Olympics of carp fishing,'' said Sean Manning, of the American Carp Society, an Englishman who is promoting the sport in the United States. ''It will bring world-class fishermen. It will bring a lot of publicity to the area, and hopefully do a lot for the economy.''
 Ms. St. Hilaire could not be more thrilled, though she still finds carp as ugly as ever, even after catching a 43-pounder before the tournament. ''I thanked it for the experience of catching it,'' she said. ''But I was not going to kiss it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Danny Henwood helps show Connor Loomis, 12, a few fishing techniques on Saturday, at a fishing tournament in Waddington, N.Y. (Photo by Kevin Rivoli for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); SPORT FISHING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); RIVERS (75%); CELEBRITIES (70%); CHRISTMAS (70%); MOVIE FILMING (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); COUNTIES (60%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Children and Youth; Fishing, Sport; Carp (Fish); Contests and Prizes 

PERSON: Michelle York

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (90%) New York State; Canada; St Lawrence River

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2004



521 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Najaf Fighting Continues; American Journalist Is Free
The cleric Moktada al-Sadr brokered the release of a kidnapped American journalist, even as his Shiite militia engaged in heavy fighting to fend off a renewed American assault near the holiest shrine in Najaf. A1

A family in the Najaf neighborhood of Judaada, a few blocks from the front lines, is caught between American soldiers, followers of Moktada al-Sadr and nightly firefights. A1

The chief of the Army Reserve has set in motion plans to reorganize training and strengthen leadership skills for reservists, after preliminary findings of an inquiry into abuse of detainees at Abu Ghraib prison described an inferior command climate and flaws in training. A9

Accidental Killings in Kabul
Soldiers from the American-led alliance killed three people in the Afghan capital after a pickup truck carrying them failed to stop at a checkpoint, officials said. A statement issued by the American ambassador, Zalmay Khalilzad, expressed condolences for the loss of ''innocent life'' in the incident. A9

Iran Delays Reactor Start
Iran said it would delay the start of its first nuclear reactor, in the southern city of Bushehr, until 2006, but that it intended to build more nuclear power plants with Russian aid. A10

Terror Alert in Honduras
Honduras tightened security at foreign embassies and declared a national terror alert after receiving information that Al Qaeda was trying to recruit Hondurans to attack embassies of the United States, Britain, Spain and El Salvador, a government official said. A12

Anti-Jewish Arson in Paris
Fire swept through a Jewish community center in eastern Paris after arsonists broke into the building and scrawled swastikas and anti-Semitic slogans inside. A4

Putin Visits Chechnya
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia flew to Chechnya for a rare visit after a night of fierce rebel attacks in the republic that, according to official Russian accounts, killed at least 30 people. A3

Arafat Aides Deplore Policy
The Palestinian leadership expressed dismay at a report that the Bush administration is turning a blind eye to an expansion of Israeli settlements. A10

Munch's 'The Scream' Stolen
Norwegian police were scouring the country for ''The Scream'' -- Edvard Munch's masterpiece of existential angst and one of the world's most famous paintings -- after armed robbers grabbed it and another painting off the wall of a crowded museum and sped off in a station wagon. A6

Mob Violence in Bangladesh
A mob set fire to a passenger train, and protesters clashed with the police across Bangladesh, leaving dozens of people injured, as violence spread a day after a grenade attack on an opposition rally killed 19 people and wounded hundreds. A4

NATIONAL A11-17

Republican Senator Offers Plan to Disband C.I.A.
The Republican chairman of the Senate intelligence committee is proposing legislation to break up the Central Intelligence Agency and divide its responsibilities among three new spy agencies. The plan would create a post of national intelligence director with virtually complete control over the government's $40 billion annual intelligence budget. A1

Kerry Ad Points Finger at Bush
Senator John Kerry released a television advertisement blaming President Bush for a campaign by a ''front group'' of veterans that Mr. Kerry said had smeared his Vietnam record. Mr. Bush's campaign denied any involvement with the effort by veterans challenging key portions of Mr. Kerry's war record. A1

Defense for a Deadly Rage
Christopher Pittman faces charges of first-degree murder for killings he committed at 12. While prosecutors portray him as a troubled killer, his defenders say the killings occurred for a reason beyond the boy's control: a reaction to the antidepressant Zoloft, a drug he had started taking for depression not long before the slayings. A1

Overtime Rule Takes Effect
As the Bush administration's new overtime rules go into effect, the Kerry campaign has already begun attacking the overhauled regulations, saying they will hurt millions of American workers. A11

Storm Becomes Test of Faith
Across central Florida, along the path carved by Hurricane Charley, people were gathering at battered churches to ask themselves whether nature's swirling wrath had also unsettled their faith. A11

Raising Economic Policy Doubts
As chief economist for the White House Council of Economic Advisers, Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin helped build President Bush's case for big tax cuts. Now Mr. Holtz-Eakin wins praise from Democrats and is a frequent source of heartburn to Republicans as head of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. A14

Debate Over G.O.P. Centrists
The prominence being given to moderates at the upcoming Republican convention, including Govs. Arnold Schwarzenegger and George E. Pataki and former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, is fueling a debate over the role of Republicans who hew more to the center. A16

Suit Against Crematory Begins
A lawsuit filed by nearly 1,700 relatives of people whose bodies were found scattered across a Georgia crematory's property in 2002 goes to trial. A17

EDUCATION

Eyes on Exchange Students
More American college students than ever will study abroad this year. Colleges have begun to worry about the misadventures of their students overseas, a group so large that many educators refer to it as the nation's unofficial diplomatic corps. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

As Convention Nears, No Pact on Protest March
A week before the Republican National Convention arrives, organizers and New York City officials have still not agreed on the route of a protest march expected to attract 250,000 people, setting up the potential for confrontations with the police. B1

Protesters are struggling to find a way to get to New York in time for the convention. B3

Corzine Says He's Ready
Senator Jon S. Corzine, during an appearance on ''Meet the Press,'' said that he was prepared to run for governor of New Jersey if a special election were held this year, but that he did not expect to get the chance. B1

Turf War in the Projects
The recent shootings outside a grocery store in Queens stem from a decades-long turf war between local housing projects in the Rockaways, the police and victims say. B1

ARTS E1-8

SPORTSMONDAY D1-12

Gatlin Sprints to Gold
Justin Gatlin of the United States won the gold medal in the men's 100-meter dash, finishing just a hundredth of a second in front of Francis Obikwelu of Portugal. Maurice Greene, the defending Olympic champion, finished third. D1

Deena Kastor earned a bronze medal in the women's marathon, the first medal by an American woman in that event since 1984. Mizuki Noguchi of Japan won the gold, while Catherine Ndereba of Kenya won the silver. D1

Paul Hamm, the American all-around gymnastics gold medalist, failed to win a medal during the event finals, and faced the prospect that he might have to share his all-around gold with the South Korean gymnast Yang Tae Young. D1

OBITUARIES B7

Semiha Berksoy
The first lady of Turkish opera as well as one of the most colorful figures in contemporary Turkish art, she was 94. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

New Tylenol Campaign
Tylenol, having long been promoted as providing safe and effective pain relief, is now being marketed in a mint flavor in an effort to make the drug more appealing to consumers. The new campaign illustrates a serious challenge faced by the makers of pain relievers and allergy medications in the competitive over-the-counter drug category. C1

Wiretap System Is Costly
Wiretapping Internet phones to monitor criminals and terrorists is costly and complex, and potentially a big burden on new businesses trying to sell the phone service. C1

NBC Sues Paxson
NBC Universal, which once contemplated purchasing all of Paxson Communications, is now suing the company over how to calculate dividends on preferred stocks after deciding to call the whole thing off. C1

From Sports to Daytime Talk
Michael Weisman, producer of some of the biggest events in sports, has become the executive producer of ''The Jane Pauley Show,'' a new syndicated daytime talk show. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Roadblock at Yucca Mountain; everybody loves Obama; Superfund, shortchanged; Verlyn Klinkenborg on soldiers and writing.

Columns: Bob Herbert.

Autos D13
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E4
TV Listings E7
Crossword E2
Weather D14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (87%); ARSON (86%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); TERRORISM (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); ARMIES (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (69%); FIRES (69%); ROBBERY (68%); POWER PLANTS (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (66%); RIOTS (65%); AL-QAEDA (65%); PAINTING (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); TRAINS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (88%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); HONDURAS (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); BANGLADESH (92%); ISRAEL (79%); NORWAY (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2004



522 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: ABU GHRAIB; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: More Reserve Training Set As Result of Abuse Inquiry

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
The chief of the Army Reserve has set in motion plans to reorganize training and strengthen leadership skills for reservists, after preliminary findings of a special inquiry into abuse of detainees at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq described an inferior command climate and flaws in training that left some citizen soldiers ill prepared for long-term duty in a combat zone.
 The Reserve chief, Lt. Gen. James R. Helmly, described initial assessments made in the inquiry, which he ordered after members of a reservist military police unit were photographed abusing prisoners at Abu Ghraib. The new training will apply to all 205,000 Army reservists, most of whom serve in combat support and service roles, jobs like the military police and transportation.
 ''Frankly, the development of leaders in the Army Reserve has not kept pace with the demands on leaders that we see today,'' General Helmly said Friday in an interview at the Pentagon. He spoke of the challenges facing the force as it seeks to maintain sufficient numbers to meet the anticipated extended deployments to Iraq. He also disclosed proposed incentive programs intended to entice reservists to continue to serve after their current commitments expire. 
 As America's part-time soldiers increasingly take on yearlong responsibilities in Iraq and Afghanistan, and as they bear a larger percentage of the mission in the worldwide campaign against terrorism, the culture of the Reserve must be toughened, General Helmly said. 
 ''Over past years, we have not stressed the seriousness of our purpose and being to our force,'' he said. ''We have tended to have comforting things.'' No clearer statement of the Reserve's view of itself can be found than a legacy of advertisements that trumpeted opportunities for supplementing incomes, earning tuition and extending military benefits by joining -- and that studiously underemphasized any combat mission.
 One advertisement even bragged that a reservist ''could be your own sweet self 98 percent of the time.'' No more. Fresh Army Reserve advertising campaigns will remind service members that ''honor is never off duty'' and that part-time soldiers must be full-time warriors.
 In the Reserve, General Helmly emphasizes to soldiers, ''You are personally responsible for your own actions and accountable for your own actions.'' To officers, he says, ''Leaders will be held accountable for actions, or inactions, of their subordinates.''
 In the Abu Ghraib investigation, seven members of a Reserve military police unit have been the only soldiers charged with abuse of prisoners. Some in the unit defended their actions as having been ordered by military intelligence officers; others said they had never been taught rules and regulations governing the treatment of detainees, although that is a standard course of Army training; and many stated that they had not been prepared to run a prison while under attack from insurgents.
 Almost a dozen inquiries have been initiated to explore the scandal and assign blame -- findings of two more are due this week -- and General Helmly ordered a ''special assessment'' to review the training of all reservists, especially in military police and intelligence assignments.
 In his March 11 order to the inspector general of the United States Army Reserve Command, General Helmly directed the assessment to focus on whether the Reserve had effectively taught and trained its personnel in the Law of Land Warfare, detainee treatment, interrogation techniques, ethics and leadership.
 General Helmly did not discuss the roles of individual soldiers or officers, personnel issues or specific incidents of wrongdoing at Abu Ghraib and elsewhere in Iraq identified in the Reserve inquiry, which is not set for release before November. But he said that initial findings indicated that training for the Army reservists sent to Iraq ''was adequate in form but not substance.'' New training, he said, will emphasize combat skills and a recognition that ''this is a military organization and we will conduct ourselves with military values.''
 General Helmly has been briefed on the initial findings of the inspector general, a discussion he says includes ''instances of leadership failure in this war.'' The Army Reserve is already using a pilot program in leader training for commanders at the company level, the unit size, 70 to 160 soldiers, that makes up two-thirds of the Reserve's organization.
 Early in the military's investigation of abuse at Abu Ghraib, one Army Reserve general was relieved of command. The officer, Brig. Gen. Janis Karpinski, commander of the 800th Military Police Brigade at Abu Ghraib, was admonished in January, and that first inquiry by a senior Army investigator cited lapses in her oversight of troops in her command. 
 In an interview on Friday, General Karpinski said she had not been contacted in the Reserve inquiry. ''Hold me responsible for things under my control,'' she said, but she defended her role at Abu Ghraib by saying that commanders in Baghdad senior to her incrementally transferred her responsibility for interrogation cellblocks to military intelligence.
 As for the reservist military police under her command, General Karpinski said: ''I can tell you that these soldiers were not prepared to operate in a hostile environment. They were not prepared to sustain a battle rhythm. They were not prepared to handle force protection.'' And she blamed her superior officers in Iraq for not providing sufficient resources to secure and control the prison.
 The role of the National Guard and Reserves is receiving the most intense scrutiny since their reorganization immediately after the war in Vietnam. For the counterinsurgency effort in Iraq and Afghanistan, Guard and Reserve members make up about 40 percent of the American forces, a burden that is expected to push toward 50 percent in future deployments. The length and number of their tours and the numbers killed and wounded have already imposed stresses on the force that raise concerns about retention and recruiting.
 ''I am very concerned about our ability to fill the wartime requirements,'' General Helmly said. ''But I have greater concern about the long-term health of the force.''
 In advance of the new fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1, the Army Reserve has reached 98.5 percent of its retention goal, even though officials say that the true test of whether reservists coming home from Iraq will return to the selected Reserve will not arrive until next year.
 Richard I. Stark Jr., who is analyzing Reserve affairs at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said one of the greatest challenges to Reserve personnel is the Army ''stop loss'' orders that halted the departure of active-duty soldiers from units set for rotation into Iraq or Afghanistan. The Reserves typically drew a large part of their members from military personnel who leave active duty, and that pool is now drying up.
 ''Essentially, this dynamic is a disruption in the ecology between the active component and the Reserve component,'' Mr. Stark said. ''Active and Reserve recruiters are also competing for the same people in the economy who have no prior service. I don't believe we fully appreciate the challenges that lie ahead.''
 To woo active-duty personnel who do become available, the Army Reserve is also seeking money from Congress for bonuses to active-duty personnel -- from any service -- who choose the Army Reserve. The Army Reserve is also asking Congress for money to pay reservists tax-free bonuses of $5,000 if they renew their contracts while in the combat zone.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lt. Gen. James R. Helmly, right, said an inquiry found that flaws in the command climate and in training left some reservists ill prepared. (Photo by Steven Bittner/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (93%); ARMIES (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (78%); MILITARY BENEFITS (78%); MILITARY OFFENSES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); WAR CRIMES (77%); GENOCIDE (74%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (65%); TERRORISM (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); MILITARY TRAINING (58%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Prisoners of War; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; Reserves (Military)

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%)

PERSON: Thom Shanker; James R (Lt Gen) Helmly

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Abu Ghraib (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2004



523 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Signs? Check. Chant? Check. Ride to New York? Well

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BRICK

 BODY:
They are cooks and teachers, college students and salespeople. A fortunate few have found discount airline tickets, while others are boarding buses or piling into cars and vans.
 From all parts of the country, spanning a broad range of ages and walks of life, people are scrambling to travel to New York in time to protest the Republican National Convention. Many are finding that getting to the city is the hardest part. 
 ''I'm still hoping something will come through,'' said Britta Thornton, 22, a student from Mesa, Ariz. She and her husband have been seeking a ride through advertisements on political Web sites. ''We're short on funds, so there's not anything else we can do.''
 The number of protesters converging on the city is anyone's guess. The largest coalition of protest groups, United for Peace and Justice, applied for a permit for a rally of 250,000 people, but that figure is little better than one from a random number generator. 
 The group's spokesman, William K. Dobbs, said in an interview that he expected at least 100,000 people to participate in the protests, including many who will not need to travel far.
 ''Certainly, we'll draw heavily from the region,'' Mr. Dobbs said.
 The Police Department, in its official guide to the convention, predicted that it would draw 50,000 delegates, officials, news media representatives and guests, with the vague addendum that ''the R.N.C. is expected to draw large numbers of protesters.''
 Predicting their turnout is a fool's game, but measuring the determination of the protesters is not hard. It is written plainly in the distances they are covering and the last-minute efforts they are making to overcome unforeseen obstacles.
 Many demonstrators are advertising on politically sympathetic Web sites for companions to span the nation's highway system. Their postings serve as the electronic age's equivalent of the outstretched thumb, and they hail largely from the nation's urban strongholds of left-wing politics.
 ''Seeking a ride,'' the advertisements begin, and from there the list reads like a Johnny Cash song: ''Chicago, Seattle, Seattle, Nashville, Atlanta, Montreal, San Francisco, central Indiana, Portland, Ore., Portland, Ore., Richmond, Va., Bellingham, Wash., Los Angeles.''
 They come largely from the ranks of the working class and middle class, and many can afford an airline ticket or a week off work, but not both. 
 They mock the city's offer of discount hotel rooms -- like $150 a night for a minimum three-night stay at the Hotel Deauville on the condition that they wear buttons identifying themselves as a ''peaceful political activist'' -- as out of touch with their economic limitations.
 Dirk Adams, a protester in Boston who plans to catch a ride with a friend or buy an inexpensive bus ticket, designed a button using the smiling Statue of Liberty from the city's buttons, replacing ''peaceful political activist'' with ''loud angry agitator.''
 Mr. Adams, 33, an artist and educator, said he was surprised at the dearth of organized transportation he has found in comparison to the chartered buses available for an antiwar rally last year in New York.
 ''Now it doesn't seem to be that way,'' Mr. Adams said.
 A group called the Answer Coalition has chartered buses from the Washington area, upstate New York and Kalamazoo, Mich., but without a bus-size group, many people are on their own. For those like Mr. Adams, with just a few hundred miles to cover, the options are plentiful. 
 Several dozen people calling themselves DNC2RNC are even marching to New York from Boston, where the Democratic National Convention was held.
 For those farther away, the obstacles are greater.
 Cecily Letendre, 30, a circuit designer from Nashville, had arranged for a ride and a place to sleep in a student's apartment near Columbia University, but decided that her time and money would be better spent donating to the Kerry campaign and organizing voter registration in her own state. 
 Besides, she had her tarot cards read, and the prospects for the New York trip seemed forbidding.
 ''I don't put much stock in that stuff, but it was really disconcerting,'' Ms. Letendre said. ''One of the cards had a nuclear bomb on it.'' 
 Superstition aside, sheer distance is an obstacle. On the West Coast, some people are finding it insurmountable.
 ''I have made some inquiries with people who are going, but their vehicles are full,'' said Kurt Kelly, 45, a concert promoter from Los Angeles. ''A lot of people aren't even aware it's going on.''
 Emma Young, 20, of Denver, failed to find a ride, too, but she found a $170 airplane ticket.
 ''If it had been much more expensive than that, I probably wouldn't be going,'' Ms. Young said. This is her first trip to New York, and though she is confident that she will find housing and her way around, security concerns have her ''a little antsy.''
 ''Gas masks I've thought about in particular,'' Ms. Young said, adding that she probably will not wear one for fear of angering police officers.
 Others are still trying to raise money from friends, asking people who are politically sympathetic but burdened with time commitments to ''sponsor a protester.'' Ben Baity, 49, a salesman who said he lost his job, is seeking sponsorship.
 ''I just got laid off, so I have the time, but I don't have the money to fly,'' Mr. Baity said. He is also seeking somewhat more expensive housing. While Ms. Young's generation of protesters is content to sleep on a sofa, he said, ''not everybody's interested in crashing at somebody's house.''
 Some of those who are trying to cover a great many miles are finding that the same online services that engender rapid communication also allow for missed connections and other unexplained phenomena of anonymity.
 ''There was a guy who was chartering a bus who said that if that didn't happen he was going to take a van,'' said Trin Kiger, 37, a cook who lives in the Portland, Ore., area and has sought a ride through online message boards, ''but we haven't heard from him in weeks.''
 Others, like Joshua Knapp, 22, an organizer in Seattle with an environmental group called the Native Forest Council, are confronting more conventional obstacles.
 ''We had a plan, but the guy who was driving us got in an accident,'' Mr. Knapp said. He is trying to raise money from friends to buy a plane ticket, and he is not ready to give up. ''The folks that are getting this protest up want it to be the biggest in history, and we think it deserves to be. So we're doing everything we can to get there.''
 Still others are earning their way on the road. Musicians like Tony Presley, 23, of Austin, Tex., and Matt Fuller of Bellingham, Wash., are playing sets in nightclubs to pay for gas and sleeping where they are offered a floor, applying the lessons they have learned from concert touring and setting New York as their endpoint.
 ''If it wasn't for the protests,'' Mr. Fuller said, ''I would have cut myself off at the Mississippi.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: After failing to find a ride to New York, Emma Young, a would-be protester from Denver, booked a flight for $170, just within her budget. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)
 Cecily Letendre, left, of Nashville, shown with Jennifer Skerrett, planned to protest in New York, but decided to mobilize voters at home. (Photo by Christopher Berkey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); AIRLINES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); RIOTS (65%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Demonstrations and Riots; Conventions, National (US); Election Issues; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Michael Brick

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) New York City; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2004



524 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Unit Passes Rival in Britain

BYLINE: Agence France-Presse

DATELINE: LONDON, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
The supermarket chain Asda, a unit of Wal-Mart Stores Inc., has overtaken Marks & Spencer as Britain's biggest clothing retailer, industry figures showed Sunday.
 Asda's market share, based on sales of its George clothing brand, has risen by almost a third, to 9.4 percent, in the three months ended July 31, compared with the same period a year earlier, according to Taylor Nelson Sofres, the market research group. 
 Marks & Spencer's market share was unchanged at 9.1 percent.
 ''This is a tremendous milestone for the George brand,'' Asda's chief operating officer, Andy Bond, said.
 Marks & Spencer, which had held the top spot for decades, declined to comment. The news is seen as a major blow for Marks & Spencer's chief executive, Stuart A. Rose, who is under pressure to revive the fortunes of the century-old British company, which also sells food and furniture.
 Last month, investors backed the company's board in its rejection of a $:9.1 billion ($16.54 billion) takeover bid by the investor Philip Green. Their support, together with Mr. Rose's defense strategy, led Mr. Green to abandon his bid.
 Mr. Rose's strategy included plans to return $:2.3 billion to shareholders, to sell Marks & Spencer's financial services arm and to return to focusing on high-quality, stylish clothing for its core customers, women from 35 to 55.
 Asda's George clothing is sold in 240 of the supermarket's 266 British stores, as well as in Wal-Mart stores in Germany, South Korea, Japan, Mexico and the United States. The George brand, which includes women's wear, children's clothing, skiwear and maternity items, also has five stand-alone outlets in Britain.
 Wal-Mart, which is based in Bentonville, Ark., is the world's largest retailer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET SHARE (91%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); STATISTICS (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); WOMEN (77%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%) Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: MARKS & SPENCER GROUP PLC (98%); WAL-MART STORES INC (96%); ASDA GROUP PLC (94%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Asda Group Plc; Marks & Spencer Plc

TICKER: MKS (LSE) (98%); WMT (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (98%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

PERSON: PHILIP GREEN (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (78%); JAPAN (72%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2004



525 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: A Week to Go, and Protesters Wonder: Keep It Legal, or Go for the Park?

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER and DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
With just six days left before the largest planned demonstration of the Republican National Convention, organizers and the city have yet to reach an agreement on how to handle the masses of protesters, setting up the potential for confrontations with the police just as the Republican delegates arrive.
 At a moment when city officials and the protest's organizers, United for Peace and Justice, should be polishing the final details over the event next Sunday, they are instead locked in a court battle over the route of the march, which organizers say could draw 250,000 people. The group itself is fractured over how to proceed, and many protesters are vowing to use Central Park despite the vehement opposition of the city, which wants the rally to take place on the West Side Highway. 
 Adding to the uncertainty are the boiling tensions between Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and officials and members of the police and firefighter unions, many of whom have been trailing him at his public events for weeks demanding a new contract and threatening illegal strikes or other job actions just as the city struggles to deal with the protests and the convention.
 The Bloomberg administration and convention officials have dismissed the conflicts as irrelevant to the success of the convention. Both the city and organizers of Sunday's protest say they hope to come to terms before the demonstration. 
 ''New York City has a way of pulling things off,'' said Edward Skyler, Mr. Bloomberg's press secretary. ''But if U.P.J. feels that marching past Madison Square Garden and having a rally off the Hudson River is such a tragic abuse of the First Amendment, then they have the option of not taking the city up on its offer.''
 Nevertheless, the potential for embarrassing or explosive confrontations between protesters and the administration is increasing as the start of the convention looms closer without final arrangements being set. Some officials and protest organizers fear a repeat of the rally against the Iraq war in February 2003, when demonstrators and the police clashed, leading to hundreds of arrests, in large part because plans for the event were not completed until the last minute.
 The situation has created a headache for Mr. Bloomberg, who is counting on a convention that will be good for the city's image and show the world how it has recovered from the Sept. 11 attack. Further, Mr. Bloomberg has to find a careful political balance between the tough labor stance he has taken with the uniformed officers and his desire to not inflame this group of city workers, who were lauded for their role after the terror attack. But in recent days, many police officers have been pushing the legal boundaries as they hector Mr. Bloomberg. 
 Adding to the confusion is that many protesters getting ready to descend on the city do not know where their march is headed, leaving open the possibility that many small groups of demonstrators will wander about the city or toward Central Park. 
 ''I'm doing a lot of organizing and I have no idea as to what's going on,'' Jose Martin, a protest organizer from Chicago, told a crowd of hundreds gathered Wednesday for a United for Peace and Justice planning meeting. If the park is off in the end, he said, ''what the hell is the plan?'' Leslie Cagan, the group's national coordinator, conceded that essentially there was not one. ''I'm sorry I don't have a more thorough answer about this,'' she said, ''but that's where we are.''
 The conflict over the protest began a year ago, when United for Peace and Justice first solicited a permit to rally on Central Park's Great Lawn, and grew into a battle that pitted veteran leftist demonstrators against city officials, including a mayor whose love of the park led him to once sit on the board of the Central Park Conservancy and donate large sums of money to its cause.
 After Mr. Bloomberg's parks commissioner, Adrian Benepe, argued that such a large rally would destroy the grass and render the lawn unusable for the better part of the fall, the mayor flatly rejected the group's request. The city has been prickly about the lawn since its costly refurbishing in the late 1990's. 
 The Bloomberg administration first suggested that the group hold its protest in Queens, which drew immediate accusations that the mayor was doing the Republican Party's bidding by trying to keep demonstrators out of sight. Indeed, Mr. Bloomberg is politically torn between his Republican guests and the largely Democratic city where he will face re-election next year.
 Mr. Bloomberg has tried to balance his tough talk with tolerance. One day, he made ominous comments about free speech at a news conference, saying that if people ''start to abuse our privileges, then we lose them.'' The next, he was handing out buttons for protesters to use to get discounts at New York restaurants and museums.
 At the same time, United for Peace and Justice has been riven by internal dissent. The top priority for the group, its organizers say, is to gather the largest possible number of people in the streets to show their displeasure with Bush administration policies, and the only way to achieve that is through a legal event. Worried that they needed to nail down a plan in time to mobilize their forces, organizers say, they acceded to the city's ultimatum to rally on the West Side Highway, securing the march past Madison Square Garden, the convention site.
 But many members balked at the decision, with some saying they simply would not go to the highway and others arguing that the park was the only place to be. Faced with agitation from within and a city administration that they saw as refusing to help make arrangements necessary for the highway, the United for Peace and Justice leadership backed out of its agreement for a West Side Highway rally and sued in State Supreme Court for access to the park. 
 That suit, as well as one in federal court brought by the National Council of Arab Americans over use of the Great Lawn on for a rally on Saturday, could solidify or scuttle the policy on public use of the city's scarce open spaces. 
 ''The Central Park Conservancy runs Central Park and they've been very possessive about it,'' said City Councilman Bill Perkins, who is in favor of letting United for Peace and Justice rally there. ''In some years they've considered whether there is too much activity in the park because to them activity is a maintenance issue.''
 Mr. Perkins, a Democrat from Harlem, pointed out that the mayor has had a long relationship with the private, nonprofit group, adding that the first time he met Mr. Bloomberg, the mayor was the host at a reception for the conservancy at his Upper East Side town house. 
 Protesters frequently invoke the city's permit for a Dave Matthews Band concert on the Great Lawn in 2003 to support their claim that the city is discriminating against political but not cultural expression.
 Still, that event was nearly scotched several times over disagreements between the city and the concert's promoters over how large it would be, according to people involved in its planning. The organizers, who raised money through ticket sales for the city's public schools, wanted to offer closer to 100,000 tickets. But the city, pushed by Mr. Benepe, held the line at 70,000, and insisted on a bond to secure repairs to the lawn.
 ''The argument that we made was that there was a lot of money at stake for the public schools,'' said Stuart Ruderfer, a chief executive of the Civic Entertainment Group, which helped produce the show. ''But despite our pushing back aggressively, the city raised serious concerns about safety and the health of the lawn.''
 And in recent weeks, the mayor has been drawn into another protest battle, with firefighters and police officers who have trailed him at his public events, holding loud and sometimes raucous demonstrations. Last week, they even gathered outside his home at 1 a.m., clearly violating the city's noise code by yelling loudly and at length.
 During at least two other protests, police officers and firefighters moved freely without barricades, at times blocking traffic in the street. A group of police officers and firefighters also swarmed the mayor outside a community meeting, forcing his detail to hustle him into his S.U.V., which was momentarily blocked before it pulled out.
 No firefighters or police officers were arrested at any of these events. By contrast, during that same time, four women were arrested after trying to hang an antiwar banner from a hotel window in Midtown, and four other protesters who erected a tent near the south end of Central Park to protest Bush administration economic policies were arrested and detained for hours. The Police Department said that police officers and firefighters had not been given any special treatment.
 The city has been signaling that it will deal with convention protesters forcefully, permit or no permit.
 ''We think the vast majority will be peaceful,'' Paul J. Browne, a police spokesman, said of the protests, adding, ''We would move swiftly to arrest people engaged in activity'' that includes violence and destruction of property.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Patrick J. Lynch, center, the president of the police officers' union, whose members have been trailing the mayor to demand a contract. (Photo by Margaret Keady for The New York Times)
 The Great Lawn in Central Park is the focus of a battle between city officials and protesters who want to demonstrate there on Sunday. (Photo by Yoni Brook/The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (85%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); RIOTS (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (62%); TERRORISM (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Demonstrations and Riots; Conventions, National (US); Police; Fires and Firefighters; Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: United for Peace and Justice (Orgn)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Jennifer Steinhauer; Diane Cardwell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%) New York City; Central Park (NYC); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2004



526 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Corzine Leaves The Door Ajar On Running For Governor

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
United States Senator Jon S. Corzine said yesterday that he was prepared to run for governor of New Jersey if a special election were held this year, but that he did not expect to get the chance. 
 During an appearance on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC, in which he spoke at length for the first time since Gov. James E. McGreevey announced Aug. 12 that he would resign because of a homosexual affair, Mr. Corzine said he was ''sick and tired of picking up the newspaper and seeing New Jersey not recognized for what its good people are about.'' 
 Mr. Corzine, a Democrat, said he had accepted Mr. McGreevey's decision to stay in office until Nov. 15, which would prevent a special election and leave the president of the State Senate, Richard J. Codey, to serve out the rest of Mr. McGreevey's term. But Mr. Corzine also said there was widespread support among the state's Democrats and Republicans for an election.
 ''There's a lot to be said about an electoral process, picking a governor, as opposed to having it be this constitutional format we have,'' he said.
 Mr. Corzine's comments, tiptoeing between criticism of and support for Mr. McGreevey, highlight the predicament that he has been thrust into by Mr. McGreevey's sudden political demise. He has made no secret in the past of his desire to become governor eventually, and leading New Jersey Democrats have been pressuring him to push Mr. McGreevey out of office and run as his replacement.
 Yet as chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, Mr. Corzine is also fully entrenched in the party's effort to capture control of the United States Senate. Many consider him a leading candidate for secretary of the treasury, or another cabinet-level economic post, if John Kerry is elected president.
 Mr. Corzine did not say yesterday how he would resolve the conflict between state and national aspirations in the event of a special election. But it is increasingly likely that he will not have to decide. Mr. McGreevey has said repeatedly that he has no plans to step aside early. In an Op-Ed article in The New York Times yesterday, he reiterated that it was his duty to stay in office because of ''public policy considerations and actions'' that still needed to be completed. 
 At the same time, the campaign to oust Mr. McGreevey in time for a special election is losing strength in the face of the governor's resistance. One of the Democratic Party leaders who had been leading the campaign, Representative Robert Menendez, released a brief statement on Thursday saying he would support Mr. McGreevey's decision to remain in office after Sept. 3, the deadline for scheduling a special election. His change of position came a day after a television report that an unnamed McGreevey aide had warned Mr. Menendez to stop criticizing Mr. McGreevey because Mr. Menendez himself had engaged in an affair with a woman he had set up in business.
 David Wald, Mr. Corzine's spokesman, said in a telephone interview yesterday that Mr. Corzine's acceptance of Mr. McGreevey's decision to stay on board was based on a conversation with the governor, rather than a desire to avoid the negative politics of the past week. But during his appearance on ''Meet the Press,'' Mr. Corzine repeatedly distanced himself from the party bosses. 
 Mr. Corzine hinted that those leaders, who supported Mr. McGreevey's campaigns for governor in 1997 and 2001, are too influential because they often control campaign finances. ''That's the problem with politics in New Jersey,'' he said.
 David Rebovich, a political science professor at Rider University, said Mr. Corzine's comments ''show that he recognizes that the problems New Jersey faces are not just McGreevey problems, but problems that are pursuant to the party bosses.
 ''Here we have Corzine on national television saying: 'I'm not one of them. If I run it will be on a reformist platform,''' Mr. Rebovich said.
 State Senator Bernard F. Kenny Jr., one of the only party leaders who has spoken publicly about the movement to replace Mr. McGreevey, did not return calls for comment, nor did a spokesman for George E. Norcross III, a South Jersey power broker. 
 Mr. Corzine said Mr. McGreevey had an opportunity in his final days in office to jump-start reforms. The governor has the ability to tighten environmental regulations related to sprawl, and ''to clean up some of the money politics that has gone on in New Jersey,'' Mr. Corzine said.
 On Friday, Mr. McGreevey showed a willingness to do just that. He directed his staff to pursue an executive order to tighten restrictions on campaign donors, imposing limits that he could not or would not push through the Legislature last spring.
 Mr. Corzine also did not rule out a run for governor in 2005, when Mr. McGreevey's current term expires. ''I'm going to look at it,'' he said. ''I love the United States Senate. But there is a need to make sure that we have credible, honest government in New Jersey, and I'm committed to making sure that happens.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Jon S. Corzine during an interview on ''Meet the Press'' yesterday. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (93%); ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (62%) Elections; Governors (US)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%) James E (Gov) Mcgreevey; Jon S (Sen) Corzine; Richard (Sen) Codey; Damien Cave

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2004



527 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Controversial Overtime Rules Take Effect

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The Bush administration's new overtime rules go into effect today, but the Kerry campaign has already begun attacking the overhauled regulations, saying they will hurt millions of American workers.
 Urging President Bush to scrap the rules, the Kerry campaign and organized labor say the regulations will exempt up to six million additional workers from receiving overtime pay by redefining which workers qualify for time-and-a-half pay when they work more than 40 hours. But the administration asserts that no more than 107,000 workers will lose their eligibility, while 1.3 million workers will gain the right to overtime.
 In essence, the hundreds of pages of new rules redefine the criteria for which administrative, professional and managerial workers qualify for overtime, among them nurses, chefs, pharmacists, funeral directors, claims adjusters and restaurant managers. 
 Senator John Edwards, the Democratic vice-presidential candidate, devoted his political party's weekly radio address on Saturday to assailing the new rules, making clear that the Democrats view them as an issue to exploit when many Americans are worried about the economy and stagnating wages.
 ''Why would anyone want to take overtime pay away from as many as six million Americans at a time when they need that money the most?'' Mr. Edwards said. ''And why would anyone support this new rule which could mean a pay cut for millions of Americans who have already seen their real wages drop again this year?''
 That follows attacks by Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential nominee, who said last month, ''The new overtime regulations represent a shameful assault on the paychecks of hard-working Americans at a time when they are already putting in more hours, paying more for everyday costs and saving less than ever before.''
 To turn up the volume on the issue, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. says it will hold a news conference today and will distribute several million fliers saying Mr. Bush has given its corporate friends a gift that will cut the paychecks of millions of Americans. 
 The administration asserts that the new regulations are needed to replace vague, outmoded rules that have spurred many lawsuits as employers and employees tussle over which workers are exempt and which are not. The administration argues that the overtime rules are clearer, will be easier to enforce and will reduce expensive litigation that hurts business and the economy.
 ''We view this as a step in the right direction for bringing clarity and certainty to this area of the law so there can be greater compliance,'' said Alfred Robinson, director of the Labor Department's wage and hour division. ''And that's good for employers and employees. I'd rather focus on that than the spin and the politics.''
 Critics of the new rules say they are another example of the Bush administration's taking regulatory steps that please businesses, which have lobbied for years to revamp the overtime regulations.
 The Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group, has issued a report, which many Democrats have relied on, concluding that the rules will exempt about six million workers from overtime coverage. Among those, the institute said, are 1.4 million low-level salaried supervisors, 130,000 chefs and sous-chefs and 900,000 workers with graduate or college degrees who will now be considered professional employees.
 The administration has accused the institute and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. of engaging in a partisan campaign of misinformation on the issue. 
 Senator Tom Harkin, an Iowa Democrat who has failed in repeated attempts to win passage of a bill to roll back the rules, said he would introduce new legislation to try again. 
 ''This strikes right at the heart of a fundamental labor right,'' Mr. Harkin said. ''These vague regulations will hurt rather than help Americans with their overtime pay, while the administration's public posture is all smiles and happy talk.''
 Michael Eastman, director of labor law policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce, said companies were not seizing on the new rules to try to deny overtime pay to many workers. He praised the administration's efforts, saying the regulations sorely needed to be overhauled.
 ''It's a very easy issue to demagogue and to frighten people with claims that the worst will happen,'' Mr. Eastman said. ''It's taken a lot of courage for this administration to take this kind of unwarranted criticism from labor unions and other opponents.''
 Overtime, which is governed by the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, is a complicated area of law. Senior managers do not qualify for overtime pay when they work more than 40 hours, but the more difficult questions involve whether low-level, salaried supervisors are to be viewed as managers who do not qualify for overtime or as workers who do. 
 The new rules set forth criteria, like what responsibilities supervisors have and whether they have the power to hire and fire, to determine who is eligible.
 The rules largely exempt workers earning more than $100,000 from overtime pay, although those with union contracts calling for overtime will continue to be eligible. 
 Three former Labor Department officials under President Bill Clinton and the first President Bush concluded in a report that the regulations would hurt American workers. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. financed their study, but the three authors, led by John Fraser, former director of the wage and hour division, insisted that they were independent.
 Mr. Fraser called the rules ''a very big deal.'' Their report said that but for a provision involving very low-paid supervisors, every change the Labor Department made had expanded the reach and scope of rules that exempted workers from overtime coverage.
 In a rebuttal, the Labor Department has said the studies concluding that six million more workers would be exempt were based on faulty assumptions and partisan thinking. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OVERTIME (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); PHARMACISTS (69%); LITIGATION (60%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (54%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Overtime; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Organized Labor ; Labor

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (59%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Steven Greenhouse; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2004



528 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Allied Soldiers Kill 3 Civilians at a Checkpoint in Afghanistan

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
Soldiers from the American-led alliance killed three people after a pickup truck carrying them failed to stop at a checkpoint on Saturday night, officials said Sunday. A statement issued by the American ambassador here, Zalmay Khalilzad, expressed condolences for the loss of ''innocent life'' in the incident. 
 Two of the dead were females and one was a male, according to a statement issued by military officials. Their ages were not provided. A man and a woman were also critically injured and evacuated from the site of the episode, in Ghazni Province, to Bagram Air Base. 
 The incident occurred around 10:30 p.m. at a newly established checkpoint, jointly staffed by allied and Afghan soldiers, said Haji Asadullah Khal, the governor of Ghazni Province, which is south of Kabul, the capital. The members of a family were returning to their village when they came upon the checkpoint.
 The statement said that the pickup truck ''attempted to run through a joint Afghan National Army-Coalition checkpoint,'' prompting allied soldiers to open fire. The statement did not specify the soldiers' nationality, but American forces constitute the bulk of the alliance and have been operating in Ghazni. A search of the truck subsequently found no weapons, according to the statement. 
 The governor, Mr. Khal, said that Afghan National Army soldiers had told him that they fired a warning shot after the truck failed to stop at an initial checkpoint and that soldiers at a second checkpoint then opened fire. 
 The governor said the driver of the truck, who survived, told him that he neither saw signs telling him to stop nor heard any warning shot. 
 ''It can be difficult in the night to see the checkpoints,'' Mr. Khal said. 
 A delegation from the Interior Ministry will investigate the incident on Monday, he said. The statement also said the incident was under investigation.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Karzai to Visit Pakistan
 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Aug. 22 (AP) -- President Hamid Karzai will make a two-day visit to Pakistan this week for talks on fighting terrorism and strengthening economic ties, an official and state news organizations said.
 Mr. Karzai will arrive Monday and meet with President Pervez Musharraf, Prime Minister Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain and others, a Foreign Ministry official said.
 The two sides will discuss ways to increase cooperation in fighting terrorism, economic ties and reconstruction of Afghanistan, which is recovering after a quarter century of war, the state-run Associated Press of Pakistan reported.
 Pakistan is Afghanistan's neighbor to the east and was a strong supporter of the country's former Taliban rulers until General Musharraf sided with the United States after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
 Pakistan has pledged financial assistance to help Mr. Karzai's government rebuild Afghanistan, but ties have been strained as Afghan authorities suspect Taliban remnants stage attacks from Pakistan's tribal territories.
 Pakistan, however, has in recent months stepped up military pressure on foreign militants who have sought shelter near the Afghan border. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TALIBAN (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); VEHICLE SEARCH (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (55%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (88%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (50%) Amy Waldman; Haji Asadullah Khai

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); GHAZNI, AFGHANISTAN (92%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%) Afghanistan; Ghazni (Afghanistan)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2004



529 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: As Congressional Budget Chief, Former Bush Economic Aide Isn't Keeping to Script

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
Congressional Democrats were deeply suspicious when Republican leaders selected Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin to take over the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office in early 2003.
 As chief economist for the White House Council of Economic Advisers, Mr. Holtz-Eakin had helped build President Bush's case that big tax cuts could at least partly pay for themselves by speeding up economic growth.
 Democrats suspected that Mr. Holtz-Eakin would undermine the agency's rigorous independence to advance Mr. Bush's tax-cutting agenda by making it look less costly than it was. 
 Things did not turn out that way. Today, Mr. Holtz-Eakin wins praise from Democrats and is a frequent source of heartburn to Republicans.
 Within weeks of taking office, Mr. Holtz-Eakin dealt a big blow to Republicans. Analyzing the impact of Mr. Bush's spending and tax plans together, he concluded they would do little or nothing to stimulate long-term growth or make the deficit any smaller than it would be otherwise.
 Last week, responding to questions posed by Democratic lawmakers, the Congressional Budget Office released a report showing that Mr. Bush's tax cuts were skewed very heavily to the very top income earners.
 Senator John Kerry immediately trumpeted the report as proof that the tax cuts were contributing to a middle-class squeeze, even though the report also showed that tax burdens declined at every income level.
 The report seemed to catch Republicans off guard. 
 Robert Novak, the conservative newspaper columnist, bitterly accused Mr. Holtz-Eakin of being a pawn for Democrats.
 ''Thanks to the C.B.O., Kerry can now accuse Bush of trying to destroy the middle class based on a nonpartisan report authored by a former Bush aide,'' Mr. Novak fumed, in a column published on Thursday.
 Republicans in Congress and the White House were more restrained, accusing Democrats of distorting the facts rather than blaming Mr. Holtz-Eakin.
 ''You're blaming the messenger,'' said Sean Spicer, a spokesman for the Republican-controlled House Budget Committee. ''Is it Holtz-Eakin's fault that the Democrats did a better job of getting their message out?''
 Mr. Holtz-Eakin, a former professor of economics at Syracuse University and a prolific author on issues including income mobility and tax reform, acknowledged the firestorm but said it was inherent in running a nonpartisan agency responsible for analyzing polarizing issues.
 ''The only shield one has in a job like this is your professional credibility,'' he said. ''If you try to play games with that, you end up in a morass and won't know what to do. It's not workable.''
 Mr. Holtz-Eakin, 46, is not the first Congressional budget director to wrestle with his own party. Robert D. Reischauer, a Democrat, raised major questions that helped doom President Bill Clinton's health care plan in 1994. Dan L. Crippen, a Republican who was budget director from 1999 to January 2003, infuriated his party by refusing to even experiment with ''dynamic scoring,'' an effort to predict how tax cuts might add to federal revenue by spurring economic growth.
 But Mr. Holtz-Eakin is the first director to come directly from the White House and then raise challenges to his former boss.
 And he has done so repeatedly. Under his direction, the agency has raised doubts about proposals to partly privatize the Social Security system, one of Mr. Bush's long-term goals.
 The agency also calculated that Mr. Bush's tax and spending policies could increase the federal debt by $4 trillion over 10 years.
 It recently concluded that abolishing inheritance taxes, another priority for Mr. Bush, would diminish incentives for charitable contributions. Responding to another query from lawmakers, it calculated that allowing gay marriages would slightly increase federal revenues.
 But aside from the invective hurled by Mr. Novak, Republicans and Democrats generally give Mr. Holtz-Eakin high marks for solid analysis and high integrity.
 ''There is no doubt he is a straight shooter,'' said Mr. Reischauer, who was director of the Congressional Budget Office from 1989 to 1994. ''What you look for is someone who sees himself as wanting to be judged by the quality of his work rather than the number of his well-connected friends. I was very glad he was chosen for the job.''
 Bruce Bartlett, a Republican and staunch defender of deep tax cuts who served as director of Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation in the 1980's, agreed.
 ''In general, I think he's been an absolutely excellent C.B.O. director,'' Mr. Bartlett said. ''The C.B.O. serves the entire Congress, not just one party. The C.B.O. is required to respond to any legitimate question from the ranking member or the chairman of the House or Senate budget committees.''
 Mr. Holtz-Eakin had no doubt whatsoever he would be in the hot seat last week. Congressional Democrats had asked for an analysis of which income groups benefited the most from Mr. Bush's tax cuts of 2001 and 2003.
 After three months of work, the Congressional analysts produced a blizzard of estimates that provided fodder for both parties.
 For 2004, the agency concluded, the effective tax rate for people in the top one percent of income earners -- with average annual incomes of just over $1 million -- dropped by 6.8 percent. Democratic analysts on the Joint Economic Committee calculated more than $76,000 as an average tax cut.
 For people in the bottom fifth for annual earnings -- with average incomes of $14,900 -- the tax rate dropped just 1.5 percent, an average cut this year of $250.
 Based on the number of people in each income category, Democratic analysts calculated that one-third of all the tax benefits in 2004 will go to the top one percent of income earners.
 Not surprising, Mr. Kerry, who has vowed to roll back the tax cuts for households with incomes above $200,000 a year and use the money to pay for a comprehensive health plan, pounced on the report. 
 ''Today's report reinforces what middle-class families across the country already knew about George Bush,'' Mr. Kerry declared. ''His tax breaks have forced them to pay a bigger share of America's tax burden, forcing them to bear the brunt of his failed economic policies.''
 In fact, the report was far more ambiguous. It showed that people at all income levels received at least some tax cut. It also noted that a big source of the inequity was a special bonus depreciation for business that is set to expire this year.
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, noted that rate reductions are almost identical after 2004 between the bottom and top fifth of income earners.
 But the budget office estimated that even after 2005 the average rate reduction for people in the top one percent of earners would be nearly twice as big as that for the bottom one-fifth.
 In absolute dollar terms, the tax cuts for the wealthy were far higher than for everybody else. But the study also confirmed what tax analysts have long known: the top 10 percent of income earners still pay about two-thirds of all federal income taxes, and more than 30 million people at the lower end pay nothing except Social Security and Medicare.
 ''What we have done historically is turned the income tax into a high-end surtax,'' Mr. Holtz-Eakin said. ''That makes it hard to cut income taxes when so many people aren't paying taxes.''
 Such subtleties get lost in the heat of election season. For now, Mr. Holtz-Eakin has contented himself with laying out the facts, in all their ambiguity, and letting the political combatants battle them out on their own.


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''The only shield one has in a job like this is your professional credibility,'' Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin says. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BUDGETS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); WRITERS (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TAX REFORM (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Taxation; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; United States Economy; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Edmund L Andrews; Douglas J Holtz-Eakin; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2004



530 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Google Is One For the Books, Leaving Some With Regrets

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif., Aug. 22 

 BODY:
Geoffrey Y. Yang, a top Silicon Valley venture capitalist, can take solace in all those companies he has invested in that produced rich payouts, including Ask Jeeves, NetFlix and Excite. 
 But he will probably always rue the day he did not invest -- the day when Larry Page and Sergey Brin arrived at his office seeking $25 million to expand their fledgling company, which they had named Google a few months before. Mr. Yang declined because he served on the board of Excite, a once-popular Internet portal that he thought at the time might compete with Google.
 To know that you turned away a deal that would now be worth hundreds of millions to you and your partners -- and many hundreds of millions more to your investors -- has to smart. ''If this isn't the single best deal in venture history, it's got to be up there,'' Mr. Yang said valiantly. 
 Still, Mr. Yang can take cold comfort in knowing that he and his partners at Redpoint Ventures are not the only venture capitalists kicking themselves about Google. 
 A partner at another venerable venture firm on Sand Hill Road in Menlo Park, Calif., would talk about his fleeting chance to buy a stake in Google only if his firm were not exposed for having passed on Google.
 ''The thing we couldn't come to grips with was, 'Gee, can we work with these two guys?''' he said. ''It was clear our vision of how things had to be done were totally incompatible with their vision.
 ''We were wrong,'' he said. ''It would've been a great investment. But nevertheless, if you think you're going to be instantly in conflict with the principals, you don't want to make the investment.'' 
 One meeting, he said, left him feeling that the two Google founders, then in their mid-20's, were headstrong and naively egalitarian in ways that seemed incompatible with their ambitions. 
 John Doerr of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Michael Moritz of Sequoia Capital, the two venture capitalists who did bet on Google, were not put off by the unorthodox views of Mr. Page and Mr. Brin. 
 Another venture capitalist, Stewart Alsop, a partner at New Enterprise Associates, said, ''We wouldn't have done a Google,'' adding, ''we can't be irrational like they can be at Kleiner or Sequoia.'' 
 Mr. Alsop said that a few years ago he and Mr. Moritz were about to invest in a company, X.com, when they learned that the entire staff, except for the company's founder, had quit en masse. Mr. Alsop did not go forward with the deal. Mr. Moritz invested anyway -- and ended up making his firm a bundle. X.com later merged with PayPal, which is now owned by eBay.
 ''I've competed with Mike Moritz on numerous deals and I cannot figure it out,'' Mr. Alsop said. ''I can't figure out how he decides to make investments. I'm flummoxed by it.''
 Over the last several months, there may have been moments when Mr. Moritz and Mr. Doerr wished they had also passed on Google. 
 Tensions between entrepreneurs who start a company and venture capitalists who finance them are as common as spats between husband and wife. And the rows between Google's two strong-willed founders and their venture capitalists are legendary up and down Sand Hill Road. 
 To cash out on their investment, venture capitalists need to take a company public or sell it. The founders of a business, by contrast, often have an emotional attachment to their creation. Inside Google, the battle was not just about whether to go public, but also about how the shares would be sold and who would control the company once the shares became publicly traded. 
 The big payday may well soften any lingering tensions. Mr. Doerr and Mr. Moritz have turned the $11 million to $12 million they each paid in June 1999 for 10 percent states in Google into $3 billion. That translates into a payoff of roughly 250 to 1 in five years. 
 That is good news for all the pension funds, university endowments and rich people who invested money with Kleiner Perkins and Sequoia, but it is especially good news for partners in the two firms. The firms will receive 30 percent of the value of their stakes in Google before distributing shares to their investors. Based on the current worth of Google, that amounts to $900 million for the partners working at each firm. 
 Of course, not all partners are equal. There are emeritus partners and junior partners and partners who receive only a salary. Six to 10 partners at each firm will split most of the profits; Mr. Doerr and Mr. Moritz are likely to receive at least $100 million each.
 Although the final numbers on the value of the stake in Google cannot be tallied until Kleiner Perkins and Sequoia sell their stakes, their investment is shaping up as one for the record books. 
 ''From original investment to I.P.O., I'd have to say Google offers the biggest payoff in venture history,'' said Jesse Reyes, vice president of Venture Economics, a unit of Thomson Financial.
 Venture capitalists typically are not allowed to sell shares in a company until six months after it first goes public. But Mr. Doerr and Mr. Moritz, as members of the Google board, granted themselves the right to sell a portion of their holdings sooner than that. It is doubtful they will sell all their remaining shares in six months, because doing so could cause a steep drop in the stock price. 
 ''This is going to be one of the great venture capital deals of all time -- though it's never done until it's done,'' said Jim Breyer, managing partner at Accel Partners. Mr. Breyer, a venture capitalist since 1987, is the chairman of the National Venture Capital Association.
 The record holder in terms of dollar payoff remains eBay, according to several venture capitalists and industry watchers. The $6.7 million that Benchmark Capital invested in eBay in the summer of 1997 was worth $400 million when the company went public one year later in September 1998, according to ''EBoys,'' a book by Randall E. Stross that was published in 2000. 
 By spring 1999, Benchmark's investment was worth $4.2 billion as eBay's stock soared -- a payoff of more than 600 to 1. Each partner at Benchmark pocketed more than $200 million. 
 The Google deal will come close to that level of success. 
 ''Doing 200x on a first round is absolutely amazing,'' said William H. Davidow, a founding partner in Mohr, Davidow, who has been a venture capitalist for two decades. Of all the investments he has made over the years, only one has produced more than a 50-fold payoff -- Rambus, a company in the computer chip design business that went public in 1997. 
 Before the dot-com bubble, an investment that earned a venture capital firm 10 times its initial investment was considered a big hit. ''Until 1998 or 1999, 10x was considered a home-run investment,'' Mr. Breyer said. ''20x was considered a grand slam out of the park.''
 By the late 1990's, a venture firm would have to earn 50 times its money on an investment, if not 100 times, to prompt other venture capitalists to take out a tape measure. Accel Partners had three investments at the end of the 1990's that paid more than 100 to 1, ''and we were hardly the only ones,'' Mr. Breyer said. Today, Mr. Breyer said, the scale is returning to where it was before the bubble, with a 20-to-1 payoff ''considered a grand slam.''
 That prompts Mr. Reyes to note that eBay's return should be marked with an asterisk. It would be as if baseball players were all ''using corked bats in '99, but people are back to using wooden bats now,'' he said. 
 ''On an absolute scale, I'm having a hard time coming up with a bigger hit'' than Google, Mr. Reyes said. ''On a relative scale, it's clearly the biggest hit ever.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Doerr, left, and Michael Moritz were not put off by Google's iconclastic founders, and their tolerance paid off. (pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (92%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (70%) Computers and the Internet; Venture Capital

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); REDPOINT VENTURES (82%); KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (63%); NETFLIX INC (58%); SEQUOIA CAPITAL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (82%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (63%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (63%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (58%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MORITZ (89%); L JOHN DOERR (78%); SERGEY BRIN (76%); LARRY PAGE (76%) Gary Rivlin; Larry Page; Sergey Brin; John Doerr; Michael Moritz

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2004



531 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Wal-Mart Lowers Forecast For August U.S. Sales
Disappointing back-to-school demand caused Wal-Mart Stores to lower its August sales forecast, casting doubt on the strength of consumer spending in a crucial shopping season and sending the Dow Jones industrial average lower.
 Wal-Mart expects August sales at United States stores open at least a year to be flat to up 2 percent. It had previously forecast a 2 percent to 4 percent increase. Shares of Wal-Mart Stores fell 1.6 percent on the news. [Page C7.]

Toys ''R'' Us was profitable in the second quarter, but sales declined 3.9 percent and its United States toy business posted an operating loss of $138 million. [C7.]

Taiwan Moves Into Orchids
Taiwan is trying to dominate the world's $2 billion orchid industry. [A1]

Oil Prices Ease on Iraqi News
Oil prices eased as Iraq resumed exports from both its northern and southern outlets. The October contract fell to $46.05 a barrel. [C9.]

Applied Biosystems Head Retires
Michael W. Hunkapiller, who played a central role in deciphering the human genome, is stepping down as president of Applied Biosystems. He will be succeeded by Catherine M. Burzik, the company's executive vice president and chief operating officer. [C4.]

Microsoft Exits Standards Group
Microsoft withdrew from a United Nations software standards group for commerce, citing ''business reasons.'' Microsoft's participation had created controversy within the group, which is trying to define standards for creating a new generation of Internet services to automate buying and selling through networks of computers. [C4.]

Blue Chips Decline; Nasdaq Rises
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 37.09 points, to 10,073.05, after a disappointing sales forecast from Wal-Mart Stores. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 2.67 points, to 1,095.68. The Nasdaq composite index rose 0.68 point, to 1,838.70, as technology stocks and drug shares bucked the trend. [C10.]

Yukos Cuts Its 2004 Estimate
Yukos said that its crude oil production would be 4.5 percent less than expected for 2004, the first time the company's conflict with the Russian government has had an affect on oil production. [World Business, Section W.]

2 Companies to Make Internet Gear
Linksys and Netgear, providers of home networking equipment, are expected to announce that they are entering the business of making gear used to place telephone calls over the Internet, according to industry executives. [C4.]

Hong Kong Sees Return of Inflation
After five years and eight months of steadily falling prices that dragged down salaries and destroyed the value of many apartments, inflation has returned to Hong Kong. The consumer price index edged up 0.9 percent in July. [World Business, Section W.]

Brazil Is Trying to Save Varig
Brazil is trying to save Varig, the country's 77-year-old airline that owes about $2 billion. [World Business, Section W.]

A Frequent Flier Tells All
Tom Peters, left, the author, lecturer and management guru, became a devotee of Amtrak's Acela after 9/11. He also rates the Four Seasons Chicago as his favorite hotel and says he does not stay at a hotel where the windows do not open. Among other amenities he requests are one-hour pressing service, 24-hour room service and high-speed Internet access. [C6.]

Beware the Checked Baggage
Readers are contending that many things have been stolen from their bags checked at airports. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C7.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,073.05 down 37.09Nasdaq composite -- 1,838.70 up 0.6810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.28% up 0.05The euro -- $1.2148 down 0.0159The dollar -- 109.83 yen up 0.64Graph tracks share prices of Wal-Mart for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); EXECUTIVES (87%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); TRENDS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (75%); FLORICULTURE PRODUCTION (73%); OIL EXTRACTION (73%); TOYS & GAMES (70%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%); RESIGNATIONS (66%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); GENOMICS (52%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (87%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); OAO NK YUKOS (52%); GOL LINHAS AEREAS INTELIGENTES SA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (87%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); GOLL3 (BOVESPA) (50%); GOL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (87%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (87%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

PERSON: CATHERINE M BURZIK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); IRAQ (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004



532 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: 2 Companies To Make Gear For Phoning Over Internet

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
Linksys and Netgear, two competing providers of home networking equipment, plan to announce today that they are entering the business of making equipment used to place telephone calls over the Internet, according to industry executives.
 In both cases, Linksys and Netgear plan to announce that they are selling equipment designed specifically for use by Vonage, a start-up company that has become a pioneer in providing so-called Internet telephony. 
 The announcements underscore the continued growth of Vonage, which is based in Edison, N.J. More generally, the development underscores the idea that Internet calling is slowly beginning to creep out of the fringes and into the mainstream, according to Michael Wolf, an analyst with In-Stat/MDR, a market research firm. 
 Mr. Wolf noted that Internet calling was used by only a small fraction of people in the United States, compared with the hundreds of millions who rely on traditional phone service. But he expects the number of users to grow from around 600,000 at the end of this year to 1.5 million at the end of 2005.
 Internet-based calling has the potential to be less expensive than traditional service because it takes advantage of the same underlying network and infrastructure used to send other information, like e-mail. The convergence of the networks requires less specialized equipment for telephone service.
 For individual consumers, use of Internet-based calling entails plugging a standard phone into the Internet. Linksys and Netgear are joining a handful of other companies that offer devices that serve as adapters, which convert a voice signal into a digital format so that it can travel across the Internet. 
 Malachy Moynihan, the vice president for engineering and product marketing for Linksys, said he expected to see an avalanche in demand for Internet-based calling.
 Linksys, based in Irvine, Calif., was acquired last year by the network equipment giant Cisco Systems. Last week, Linksys began distributing two new Vonage-compatible devices to Staples stores nationwide, Mr. Moynihan said. He said the company expected to develop similar adapters for other Internet telephony providers and to distribute them in major retail chains.
 Netgear, based in Santa Clara, Calif., plans to begin distributing two Internet telephony products but does not expect to have them available until at least October, according to the company.
 Charles Golvin, an analyst with Forrester Research, said the challenge for providers of these adapters was to make them simple enough to use. 
 The technology, he said, can be complicated, and not very user- friendly. The question, he said, is whether the companies do a good job of pulling all the parts together. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET TELEPHONY (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (90%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER TELEPHONY (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); ENGINEERING (74%); STARTUPS (71%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Computers and the Internet; Machinery and Equipment

COMPANY: VONAGE HOLDINGS CORP (92%); NETGEAR INC (91%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Linksys (Co); Netgear (Co); Vonage

TICKER: VG (NYSE) (92%); NTGR (NASDAQ) (91%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004



533 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 34 words

 BODY:

DOLLAR RISES. The dollar surged against the euro on speculation that economic growth in the United States is exceeding Europe's expansion. In New York, the euro settled at $1.2139, down from $1.2307 on Friday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since March 2003. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%) Currency; United States Economy; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004



534 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Cuts August Forecast; Shares Fall

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 23 

 BODY:
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. lowered its August sales forecast on Monday because of disappointing back-to-school demand, casting doubt on the strength of consumer spending in a crucial shopping season. 
 Wal-Mart, the world's biggest retailer and a bellwether of the economy, expects August sales at United States stores open at least a year to be flat to up to 2 percent. It had previously forecast a 2 percent to 4 percent increase. 
 Shares of Wal-Mart fell 1.6 percent, or 85 cents, to $53.80, on the New York Stock Exchange.
 The back-to-school shopping season, which peaks in August, is the second-biggest retail sales period behind the Thanksgiving-to-Christmas season. 
 Analysts and retailers have cautioned that soaring gasoline prices and tough comparisons against last year's tax-credit-inflated performance would probably hurt August sales across the retail sector. 
 ''The low-income customer is badly affected by the robbery at the gas pump,'' said Kurt Barnard, head of consulting firm Retail Forecasting Group. 
 The International Council of Shopping Centers has predicted a 3 percent increase in August sales at stores open at least a year -- known as same-store sales. That forecast, however, was given before Wal-Mart lowered its August sales view. 
 The Target Corporation said after the stock market closed Monday that August sales would be as expected -- flat to 2 percent growth.
 Last week, the J.C. Penney Company said that its early back-to-school sales have been better than expected, although it cautioned that energy prices and terrorism worries could sap consumer spending.
 Analysts widely expect J.C. Penney to be among the few winners for back-to-school thanks to a well-received assortment of preteen and teen fashions. 
 Wayne Hood, retail analyst with Prudential Equity Group, lowered his same-store sales forecast for Wal-Mart to 1.8 percent from 2.8 percent. 
 Wal-Mart did not specify which back-to-school categories performed poorly, but the retailer did say that demand was strong for school uniforms, athletic shoes and fall fashions. 
 Wal-Mart said last year's child tax credits helped drive a strong 6.9 percent increase in its same-store sales for August, a level that will be hard to beat.
 On a recorded message detailing sales through Aug. 20, Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville, Ark., said 75 of its stores were closed because of Hurricane Charley. 
 In all, some 200 of its stores were affected by the hurricane that battered Florida. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (91%); RETAILERS (91%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); FOOTWEAR (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); THANKSGIVING (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CHRISTMAS (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); TAX LAW (68%); HURRICANES (60%); TERRORISM (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Sales

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (94%); J C PENNEY CO INC (93%); TARGET CORP (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (55%) Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Penney, J C, Co

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (94%); JCP (NYSE) (93%); TGT (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (93%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (93%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (84%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004



535 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Tweaking the Math to Make Happier Medical Marriages

BYLINE: By SARA ROBINSON

 BODY:
Earlier this month, a federal district court dismissed an antitrust challenge to the Residency Match, the program that assigns medical students to residency positions. The plaintiffs say they will continue their legal efforts, but whatever the outcome, the case has already captured the attention of mathematical economists, who are wrestling with a question at the heart of it: By making it difficult for students to negotiate the terms of employment, does the match program enable hospitals to underpay residents?
 The match was developed in the 1950's to bring order to a frenzied market for residents, where competition was manifested in the timing of offers. Hospitals would pressure top students to commit as early as sophomore year, or make offers that expired in hours. 
 The solution was a matching process, which evolved into what was shown to be a classic mathematical recipe, the so-called stable marriage algorithm. Given equal numbers of boys and girls, each with a list of preferences, the algorithm pairs them so that the relationships are likely to last. 
 The algorithm, frequently taught in math, computer science and economics courses, has proved powerful in real life. Variants are used for assigning clinical psychologists to internships, and students to slots at New York City public high schools.
 The version used for the residency match does a good job of placing students in appropriate programs, economists say. But unlike marriage markets, job markets are influenced by salary negotiations, which the algorithm does not take into account.
 Dr. Vincent Crawford, an economics professor at the University of California, San Diego, has come up with a way to build salary negotiation into the algorithm. This, he says, would preserve the best aspects of the program and potentially raise wages.
 The marriage algorithm was devised in 1962 by the mathematicians Dr. David Gale, now a professor emeritus at the University of California, Berkeley, and Dr. Lloyd Shapley, an emeritus professor at the University of California at Los Angeles. But it was not until 20 years later that Dr. Alvin E. Roth, a professor of economics and business at Harvard, observed that it was essentially the same as the one used in the match. It works like this:
 Each boy ranks all the girls in order of his preference, and each girl does the same. Then, each boy asks his first choice for a date. Each girl with one or more offers dates her favorite and says ''no'' to the rest. 
 In the next round, the boys who were rejected move on to their second-choice girl. The girls again date their favorites, possibly throwing over their date from the earlier round for someone better.
 Continuing in this way, the mathematicians showed, the dating frenzy eventually subsides into a stable situation where each girl has only one boy, and there is no boy and girl who prefer each other to the people they are dating. That is, every time a boy does not get his first choice, he has no hope of getting anything better. Each of the girls he prefers is paired with someone she prefers to him. The same is true for a girl.
 In the match, the students are the boys, and the residency positions are the girls. Each year, after interviews, students and hospitals rank one another in secret preference lists. A computer program then automatically plays out the rounds of dating, producing a match participants must accept.
 Because salaries are determined before the results of the match are known, programs cannot easily target the best candidates with higher offers. This may stifle competition, said Dr. Jeremy I. Bulow, an economics professor at Stanford University.
 Dr. Crawford's proposal, described in a paper submitted for publication, stems from research he did in the early 1980's that built on the marriage algorithm, but in the context of matching workers to jobs at appropriate salaries. His proposal, a simplified version of this work, would incorporate salary considerations into the rounds of the match. 
 Each residency program could offer up to three salary levels. Students would rank each level as if it were a separate program. Hospitals would include each student three times in their ranking lists, once at each level. 
 Dr. Bulow called Dr. Crawford's proposal ''potentially a significant step forward'' but said further study was needed to see how well it might work. 
 Mona Signer, director of the National Resident Matching Program, a private, nonprofit corporation that runs the match, said the board would look at the proposal.
 ''We would consider it like any other suggestion for change,'' she said.
 Dr. Bulow and Dr. Jonathan D. Levin, another Stanford economics professor, suggest, in a paper submitted for publication, that the match may depress residents' salaries. They describe a simplified, hypothetical job market that in some ways resembles the residency match. In this market, they say, the inability to personalize offers results in salaries that are lower than they would be in an ideal free market.
 ''Say I'm a second-tier hospital,'' Dr. Bulow said. ''I'd like to offer a premium wage to try to attract some of the top people on the market, but if that doesn't work out, I'd like to pay a normal wage.''
 Because the residency market is complex, it will deviate from a perfect free market for other reasons, Dr. Levin cautioned. Still, he said, the model suggests that an inability to personalize offers can affect wages.
 Other scholars disagree. Dr. Roth, who designed the current version of the match, said wages were low because residents cared more about a program's prestige than about salary, and because there were many more applicants than positions. 
 Also, Dr. Roth added, because residents' salaries are linked to Medicare reimbursements, hospitals do not have much flexibility in their budgets.
 Dr. Levin disagreed that the high value of prestige stifled salary competition. ''In our model, competition happens, not between the top-tier schools and the middle-ranked schools, but between schools of similar prestige,'' he said. 
 Dr. Roth and Dr. Muriel Niederle, a professor of economics at Stanford, published a letter to the editor in The Journal of the American Medical Association in September 2003 showing that salaries for post-residency training appointments did not differ between subspecialties that did and did not use a match. From this, they concluded that salaries were largely determined by other issues.
 Other researchers disagree with this conclusion, citing other differences between the markets.
 Sherman Marek, a lawyer for the plaintiffs in the lawsuit, said it was unclear what form the continuing legal action would take. He added that the plaintiffs would welcome proposals to introduce salary competition. 
 ''The doctors have been wrestling with this; so have the lawyers and even the politicians,'' Mr. Marek said. ''Perhaps the solution rests with the mathematicians.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Diagram: ''Everyone's a Winner (More or Less)''A mathematical recipe called the stable marriage algorithm underlies a number of real-life processes, in particular the matching of medical students to residencies. Here, given equal numbers of women and men and their preferences for one another, the algorithm finds a stable pairing.ROUND 1 -- Eve and Juliet ask their first choice, Adam, for a date. Adam says no to Juliet and dates Eve. Isolde asks Romeo and he agrees.ROUND 2 -- Spurned by Adam, Juliet turns to her second choice, Romeo. Romeo prefers Juliet to Isolde and agrees to date Juliet.ROUND 3 -- Dismissed by Romeo, Isolde vies with Eve for Adam. He says no and stays with Eve.FINAL PAIRINGS -- Isolde, rejected by her top two choices, turns to Tristan. The other couples remain together.Although only one woman and one man got their first choice, in each case every person ended up with a satisfactory, and therefore stable, match under the circumstances.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (51%) Medicine and Health; Mathematics ; Wages and Salaries; Hospitals; Doctors; Medical Schools; Labor

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%) University of California (San Diego)

PERSON: Sara Robinson; Vincent (Dr) Crawford

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004



536 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: Once Elusive, Orchids Flourish On Taiwanese Production Line

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HOUBI, Taiwan 

 BODY:
Rising from what was once a muddy expanse of sugar cane fields here are huge greenhouses and the concrete shells of what will soon be a flower exposition hall, a genetic modification laboratory and more -- the first steps in Taiwan's plan to dominate the world's $2 billion orchid industry.
 If the Taiwan effort is successful, orchids could lose their image as the high-priced but finicky princes of the floral world and become lesser nobility, almost as inexpensive as poinsettias. The favored flower for debutantes' corsages a generation ago, orchids are already starting to appear in rows of $15 potted specimens at mass merchandisers like Home Depot, and seem poised to become even cheaper.
 With their mysteriously complex shapes and colors and their exotic and inaccessible homes in swamps and tropical forests, orchids were the darlings of wealthy collectors in Victorian days. They were hunted across the globe by adventurers who not infrequently gave their lives in pursuit of very rare varieties that even today can sometimes bring thousands of dollars. 
 Large commercial greenhouses have robbed orchids of some of their elite cachet since then. Now, if Taiwan is successful, there could be orchids for the masses. Seeking a cash crop to replace sugar, which is plagued by falling prices, Taiwan is hoping to double its orchid business, and the government plans to bring heavy public spending into the previously private world of growing orchids.
 But Taiwan's ambitious plans to become a flower power have set off legal, economic, environmental and political debates from here to Washington. 
 A federal court in the United States is scheduled to hear arguments this autumn from Hawaiian orchid growers who contend that Taiwan's ambitions threaten their livelihood and the environment.
 Nearly a quarter of the world's orchids now spend at least part of their lives in Taiwanese greenhouses. 
 Taiwan produces mainly a lovely genus of orchids known as phalaenopsis, or moth orchids. The blossoms come in many hues, from gold to lilac to white, and in striped and polka-dot patterns. These are the mainstay of the orchid industry, although oncidiums also sell well. Fancier varieties sold by florists, like cattleyas and vandas, can cost several times as much.
 With globalization and outsourcing, orchids have been getting ever cheaper. Many are now started in labs in industrialized countries like the United States and Japan and then shipped by air in glass flasks to places like Thailand to grow. They are then shipped back by air in boxes, their roots bare of soil, to be potted and grown in greenhouses close to their final markets for the last six to eight months before they bloom.
 This summer, after six years of sometimes bitter review, the United States Department of Agriculture approved regulations that would allow potted phalaenopsis to be imported from Taiwan. But orchid growers in Hawaii have asked a federal court for a preliminary injunction to block the imports.
 The Hawaiian growers contend that the potting material, a type of moss, could harbor dangerous insects like blood-sucking midges and tiny thrips, which can carry plant diseases.
 ''What effect would it have on the ecology, and the safety of our plants, with the introduction of pathogens and pests and so forth from Southeast Asia?'' asked Walter Moe, the president of the Hawaii Orchid Growers Association. The Hawaiian growers are also upset by what they see as unfair subsidies from Taiwan's Democratic Progressive government, which favors greater independence from mainland China. 
 The government of Taiwan is paying $65 million to cover the construction costs of everything except the greenhouses -- and is offering government-backed, 10-year loans at 2 percent interest to help farmers build those.
 Yen Chun-tso, the deputy magistrate of Tainan County, which includes the village of Houbi and which is administering the new orchid plantation, said the new complex complied with international free trade rules, which allow the government to pay for infrastructure. Officials in Washington declined to comment. 
 When finished, the Taiwan Orchid Plantation will have not only an exposition hall and genetics laboratory, but also a quarantine site, shipping and packing areas, a grid of new roads edged by tidy brick sidewalks and water and electrical hookups for more than 200 industrial-size greenhouses. It will create 1,500 jobs. 
 Like Taipei 101, which will become the world's tallest building by most measures when it opens in December, the Taiwan Orchid Plantation here is a monument to the vaulting ambitions of Chen Shui-bian, Taiwan's president for the last four years. It also is a physical reminder to everyone in Tainan County that a hometown boy did well: President Chen was born and raised in a small farming village a dozen miles away.
 Mr. Yen said that local officials from Mr. Chen's Democratic Progressive Party would cite the plantation in future election campaigns. 
 Orchid farmers here say that while they want to bring mass production to orchids, they also care deeply about their flowers. Lin Fan-jung, an orchid farmer, walked through his greenhouses recently and pointed out the unused automatic sprinkler system. It does not provide exactly the right amount of water, so workers water each plant by hand, he said.
 Walking through four successive doors, including an air lock with powerful fans to remove dust and bacteria from visitors, Mr. Lin showed off a lab where young women wearing hair nets used sharp knives to carefully divide baby orchid plants. 
 Orchid buyers should never smoke around their plants because orchids are very sensitive to air pollution, he said, adding: ''An orchid is something with its own life. You should take care of it like your own children.'' Farmers here say that they ship live potted orchids to countries across Asia, Europe and Latin America without problems from insects or diseases. Taiwan's growers persuaded the United States Agriculture Department that finely woven nets over greenhouse air vents here would keep bugs away from the plants.
 American growers respond that European and Japanese importers douse arriving plants with pesticides that United States law does not allow. The Hawaiian growers also contend that three species of wild orchids indigenous to their islands, one endangered and the other two listed as threatened, could be devastated if dangerous insects or plant diseases arrived from Taiwan. 
 Taiwan has a huge advantage on labor costs. Greenhouse workers here earn $600 a month, a third of what workers doing similar jobs earn in expensive Hawaii.
 Shipping orchids in pots, instead of with bare roots in boxes, would allow Taiwan to export bigger plants that would require less time to mature in American greenhouses. After Taiwan's recent success, the Netherlands, which dominates the European market, petitioned the Agriculture Department to allow Dutch growers to ship potted phalaenopsis to the United States, too; the department has not yet acted on the petition.
 These developments are all the more worrisome to Hawaiian growers because Thailand, too, has become a huge orchid seller. However, it sells mainly cut orchid flowers, and plays a lesser role in the more technologically demanding business of supplying live plants. Almost all of the orchids in the leis given to tourists in Hawaii now come from Thailand, forcing Hawaiian growers to depend on sales of potted orchids, Mr. Moe said.
 Many restaurants also use Thai orchids to decorate tropical meals, to the dismay of orchid experts. Leon Lin, an orchid adviser to the Tainan County government, wrinkled his nose in disgust when his lunch plate of fried rice in Hsinying, the county seat, came with a cut purple orchid on top. ''All orchids are drenched with pesticides -- they should never be allowed to touch food,'' he said, grimacing as he gingerly removed the flower with his right thumb and forefinger and tossed it in the middle of the table.
 Orchids have even made a splash in publishing and movies in recent years, with the publication of a successful book, ''The Orchid Thief,'' by Susan Orlean, which was also made into a movie, ''Adaptation.''
 The book chronicled the attention given to orchids through a long stretch of recorded history, from their cultivation by the upper classes in China for 3,000 years to their use as medicine to treat everything from boils to sick elephants. ''Even if you can buy them at Home Depot they still have a quality that's alluring and strangely forbidding,'' she said in a telephone interview.
 As in many industries, the spectacular economic expansion in China has cushioned orchid growers somewhat from rising competition. In January, Chinese buyers bought up practically every live red orchid in Asia and Europe for Chinese New Year, paying breathtaking prices of as much as $30 a plant at wholesale, said Andrew Easton, an executive at Kerry's Bromeliads in Homestead, Fla.
 But the long-term trend in orchid prices is clearly downward, even as quality improves. Mr. Easton remembers paying $80 in 1958 for a small purple cattleya.
 ''Now,'' he said, ''I can get an orchid as good as that one for $25.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Orchids have become a global industry worth $2 billion a year. (Photo by Chao-Yang Chan for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
A greenhouse in Tainan County. The government of Taiwan said it would spend $65 million and offer low-interest loans to support growers. (Photo by Chao-Yang Chan for The New York Times)
 Orchids are kept in laboratories during the early stages of their growth. (Photo by Chao-Yang Chan for The New York Times)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR FARMING (90%); FLORICULTURE PRODUCTION (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (86%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (79%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (72%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (71%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); GLOBALIZATION (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); AIR FREIGHT (64%); INJUNCTIONS (64%); IMPORT CONTROLS (61%) Flowers and Plants ; Orchids; International Trade and World Market; Endangered and Extinct Species; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Insects; Farmers; Credit; Flowers and Plants ; Greenhouses; Flowers and Plants 

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (92%) TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (66%) Taiwan; Hawaii

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004



537 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: Older Investors More Jittery As U.S. Markets Disappoint

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON and JENNIFER BAYOT

 BODY:
When Concetta McGrath, 76, a widow in Staten Island, sold the home she had shared with her husband for over 50 years, she took $90,000 of the proceeds and put it into the stock market. It was 2001 and she hoped that the gains generated by the investment would bolster her monthly Social Security benefits of $800. 
 But soon after she invested in an Oppenheimer mutual fund, its value began to drop. When the fund lost a third of its value, Ms. McGrath cashed out, spent $15,000 on living expenses and put the remaining $45,000 into banking institution stocks for safety. 
 Today, some two and a half years after her foray into the market, Ms. McGrath says her account is worth $28,000. Now, she worries about outliving her money. ''My friend and I were saying, 'Gee, you know, we won't live more than two years,''' Ms. McGrath said. ''That's the only way you can look at it. I'm too old to look for a job.'' Ms. McGrath is not the only investor facing tough economic realities as a result of the disappointing United States stock market this year. With the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index down 1.5 percent and the Nasdaq composite off 8.2 percent this year, investors who thought that 2004 would repeat last year's 26 percent rise in the S.&P. are beginning to face the fact that their expectations will not be met. 
 ''Last year's rally was a junk rally that proved that greed was not dead,'' said Christopher T. Casey, portfolio manager at Boston Private Bank and Trust. ''What you're seeing now is greed may not be dead but it's limping.'' Individual investors certainly began this year with high hopes. In January, two-thirds of the 800 investors surveyed by UBS said that they felt somewhat or very optimistic about where stocks would be in 12 months. UBS said it was the highest level of investor optimism since January 2000, the height of the stock market mania. Even now, with the market well off its highs for the year, the chasm between what investors seem to be expecting from the stock market and what they will probably receive remains wide. An astonishing 18 percent of investors polled in August said they expected to generate profits of 10 percent to 14 percent in their portfolios over the next 12 months, while 28 percent said they expected to generate gains of 5 percent to 9 percent. 
 Just under half of the investors polled this month said that they were either somewhat or very optimistic about the performance of the stock market over the next 12 months.
 In the meantime, strategists like Mr. Casey expect the market to tread water for some time to come, predicting that stock prices will remain flat for a couple of years even as earnings rise. 
 Investors' retirement accounts are especially vulnerable to a drifting stock market. According to a study by the Employee Benefit Research Institute of 401(k) plan activity among 4.5 million participants, 67 percent of the assets invested in such plans went into stocks last year, up from 62 percent in 2002. In 2000, at the height of the stock market bubble, equities made up three-quarters of the assets held in 401(k) plans. 
 While younger investors can shrug off the lackluster performance in the stock market as something to fret about tomorrow, older investors cannot. For those nearest retirement and closest to tapping into their funds, time is running out on their efforts to rebuild accounts that were devastated by the bear market of recent years. 
 The Employee Benefit Research Institute study found that people in their 60's are still down 8.7 percent on average in their accounts for the four-year period beginning Dec. 31, 1999, and lasting through the end of last year. Participants in their 60's with more than 30 years of tenure on the job are even worse off; their account balances fell 15.5 percent on average during the period, the study said.
 The long-running bull market in stocks that began in 1982 and lasted until 2000 certainly taught many investors that a buy-and-hold strategy was the wisest way to the largest gains in equities. A recent report by the Bank Credit Analyst, an independent research firm in Montreal, noted that capital gains from securities accounted for more than half of the increase in total assets among households from 1982 to 2000. 
 Big gains from equities also meant consumers could set less money aside than normal into traditional savings account. As a result, the savings rate in the nation has plummeted. In June 2004, the personal savings rate in the United States stood at 1.2 percent. 
 But with equities going sideways, or down, some strategists say the think that consumers will shun stocks and move more money into bank accounts, certificates of deposit and other havens as they realize that a prosperous retirement may be more difficult to attain.
 ''It appears that a conservative set of habits is building among consumers after multiple periods of comfort with higher levels of risk and speculation in the stock market and then its successor, the housing market,'' said Richard D. Hastings, retail analyst at Bernard Sands in New York. ''The speculative momentum to drive markets is simply not there.''
 Recent inflows into stock mutual funds seem to confirm this view. July's inflows were $8.9 billion, the second-lowest figure this year and well below the $21 billion average monthly inflow generated during the first six months of 2004. 
 According to Robert Adler, president at AMG Data Services, only a handful of fund companies experienced net inflows in July, and those were companies that had large numbers of retirement account holders. The fund flows seem to indicate that while 401(k) investors keep putting money in the stock market on autopilot, active investors are staying away. 
 ''The large fund groups that experienced inflows have massive retirement constituencies,'' he said. ''Because the money is coming so heavily into these groups, it is based on a more passive sentiment, predirected as early as December of last year. But active investor sentiment is flat or negative.'' 
 Some portfolio managers report growing concern among professional investors over the implications of a stagnant stock market. ''A lot of our clients are foundations and insurance companies, who need a positive rate of return because they are offsetting a liability,'' said Alan Kral, a portfolio manager at Trevor Stewart Burton & Jacobsen in New York. ''It's a difficult thing for most of them. The agita is increasing.''
 Jim Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, said he had encountered many investors who were staying on the sidelines because of terrorism fears. 
 ''This year still seems to be more about fear than reality,'' Mr. Paulsen said. ''We've had remarkable recovery on many fronts, restoration of profits, re-emergence of jobs, the continuation of low inflation rates and interest rates. But whenever I speak to investors about the economy and the markets, the first question I get is 'What about a terrorist attack?' It's hard to convince people no matter how good the fundamental story is that they should up their equity levels. There's this ghost out there and no amount of G.D.P. growth can overcome it.'' 
 Karen Orlin, 56, a corporate lawyer in Boca Raton, Fla., said she had already changed her buying habits and retirement plans because of the stock market's recent fizzle. For example, she said that not long ago she assumed her investments would allow her to retire at 60 or 62. Now, however, she plans on working until 65 at least. 
 ''I am much more conservative in my expenditures,'' Ms. Orlin said. ''I'm not as much of a consumer as I was five years ago.'' She also said that she traveled less often now and that when she did, she tried to stay with friends rather than in a hotel. 
 As far as her investments are concerned, she said she was less concerned with growing her portfolio of mutual funds than she was with simply maintaining its current value, which she declined to give. 
 Some investors, who were waiting for their battered stocks to return to precrash levels before they sold them, may finally be dumping the shares they have held so patiently. Mary Pitts, 70, a retiree in Boynton Beach, Fla., who worked for AT&T, had long planned to give her grandchildren the roughly 500 shares she had amassed in various cable and telecommunications concerns over the years. ''I just figured I'd put it away and never touch it,'' Ms. Pitts said. ''I thought my grandkids could have it in 20 years or so.''
 But even with her long-term outlook, she has found the market's recent performance unsettling. And so this month, Ms. Pitts sold all of her shares for $6,000, less than a quarter of the $25,000 that they were once worth. She now plans to give the money to her son, who is building an extra room on his house for the kids.
 ''I just held on too long,'' Ms. Pitts said. ''I had Lucent when it was up at $62 a share. I sold it at $3.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The United States stock markets have performed in lackluster fashion this year. Many investors have gotten wary. Karen Orlin, right, a Florida lawyer, has changed her retirement plans and buying habits. Cocetta McGrath, below, from Staten Island, has seen her investments shrink sharply since 2001. (Photo by Below, Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times
right, John Ricksen for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Tourists take photographs outside the New York Stock Exchange. The American stock markets have disappointed investors this year. Strategists predict that share prices will remain flat, even as earnings rise. (Photo by Mary Altafer/Associated Press)(pg. C10)Chart: ''Hope Over Experience''Investors' expectations have recently risen, but stock prices have soured and many portfolios are at disappointing levels.Graph tracks the following from 1998-2004:1. INVESTORS' EXPECTATIONS OF RETURNS AT THE START OF EACH YEAR*2. S.& P. 500 RETURN WITH DIVIDENDS REINVESTED*Expectations for 1998 were determined in June of that year
for 1999, in February(Sources by Standard & Poors
 UBS Index of Investor Optimism)Graph tracks $10,000 invested in the Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index at the start of 1998, 2000, and 2002. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Aged; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index

COMPANY: BOSTON PRIVATE BANK & TRUST CO (65%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%)

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson; Jennifer Bayot

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004



538 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 894 words

PERSON: ROBERT YARO

HEADLINE: His Group's Interests Do Not Include a Stadium

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
ROBERT YARO'S evocatively messy office on the fringe of Union Square is crammed with artist's sketches of structures that define the horizon and pulse of New York City and its environs. Some of the sketches have transformed into landmarks; some remain figments of urban architects' imaginations, good and bad. After two decades of urban planning in Massachusetts, Mr. Yaro joined New York's Regional Plan Association in 1990 because ''when you're in the urban planning business, New York is the Super Bowl.'' 
 A hint to Jets fans with visions of a $1.4 billion Midtown stadium dancing in their mental end zones: that football reference is no accident. But Mr. Yaro claims the Jets need Manhattan infinitely more than Manhattan needs them. 
 ''We're a big-league town regardless of whether the Jets are here,'' he said.
 He keeps a yellowing New Yorker cartoon on a side table as inspiration of a sly sort. In the cartoon, a pack of wolves sits baying at the moon while one wolf in the back row asks his neighbor: ''My question is: Are we having any impact?'' That is, he says, just how he feels as head of the plan association, a research-based agency with no policy-making clout but a responsibility to represent the public interest. ''It's always a pleasant surprise when somebody pays attention to us,'' he deadpans. But people do: there is, it seems, a certain clout that emanates from having no clout. As Mr. Yaro explains, the R.P.A.'s opinion matters because ''it isn't owned by any industry, and it has no political agenda other than what's in the public interest.'' 
 An artist's rendering of the Midtown oasis now known as Rockefeller Center came true with the association's blessing. Same thing for the cultural cluster that defines the Upper West Side, Lincoln Center. A 1928 prototype of the center, sketched by Hugh Ferriss, occupies a spot of honor above Mr. Yaro's desk, but the prime wall space over his computer is devoted to a more personal icon, the 40-year-old fiberglass Hinckley Pilot 35 that he owns with his brother and moors near his home in Stamford, Conn. 
 Wait a minute: Mr. Yaro presumes to pass judgment on New York City's architectural fate, but doesn't actually live here? 
 ''I'm a regionalist,'' he grumbles. But he has New York roots. He was born and raised in Queens; his sailing fixation came from summer vacations on the North Fork of Long Island after his father, a Juilliard-trained clarinetist-turned-stockbroker, tossed him into a dinghy at age 7 and advised him to sink or sail. At 54, he's still sailing. And still obsessed with New York's waterways. The notion of blocking public access to a vast swath of Hudson riverfront with a football stadium is high on his list of rotten ideas worth opposing: the association is an advocacy group, but he says 20 percent of its effort goes toward opposing plans it finds detrimental. 
 The Brooklyn Battery Bridge that Robert Moses favored but the association deemed a disaster? Didn't happen. A tunnel took its place. The retail center that Westfield Associates, a former affiliate of the World Trade Center lease holder, Larry Silverstein, proposed for the ground zero site? Nixed. ''This is sacred ground, and what were we thinking of doing, building Paramus Mall there?'' sputters Mr. Yaro, his well-trimmed mustache bobbing above his upper lip. His association, he points out, convened the ''town meeting'' of 5,000 New Yorkers at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center that unified the public's dismay over the initial World Trade Center rebuilding schemes. 
 LATELY, the association's attention has been occupied by a couple of refurbishment projects for the far West Side. One, the expansion of the Javits Center, gets thumbs up. The other, the $1.4 billion stadium to house the Jets franchise and serve as bait for the city's bid to host the 2012 Olympics, has been panned. ''Our critics have said we're like the region's mother-in-law,'' says Mr. Yaro, a stocky, self-actualized soul who sips from a can of diet Dr Pepper, and possesses the semi-smug manner of a man with no ambivalence about his life's mission. 
 The association, he says, is all about making certain that whatever gets built in the region is in the public's interest. And is not driven by special interests. That the Bloomberg administration's Olympic linchpin, Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff, is furious with the association for opposing plans for a Jets stadium at the West Side rail yards bothers Mr. Yaro not a tad.
 ''Mention the word 'Olympics' and people seem to go into this altered state,'' says Mr. Yaro, admittedly a nonfootball fan (he takes pride in remembering that the first and last Jets game he ever attended happened in 1963 versus the Pittsburgh Steelers). He has nothing against the Olympics. It is the notion of using public money to build an expensive stadium that steams him. 
 ''Football stadiums are not economic development engines,'' he said. ''This building doesn't work in this site. It's gargantuan in size and out of scale to everything around it. It doesn't advance the public interest or the city's interest. Add in the cost of the land, and you're getting into the neighborhood of a billion dollars in public subsidies. The city has survived perfectly well for the past 25 years without the Jets: there are better things to be done with that site.''
 He's got a million of them.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 13, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The Public Lives column on Aug. 24, about Robert Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, which opposes proposals to build a football stadium for the Jets in Manhattan, included an erroneous identification from Mr. Yaro for the opposing team that played at the only Jets game he ever attended, in 1963. It was the Buffalo Bills, not the Pittsburgh Steelers.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Yaro (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%) Football; Stadiums and Arenas; Area Planning and Renewal; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (93%) New York Jets; Regional Plan Assn

Robin Finn; Robert Yaro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; West Side (NYC)

CATEGORY: Architecture

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004



539 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; SOCCER REPORT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Earthquakes' Future Remains in Doubt

BYLINE: By JACK BELL

 BODY:
On Saturday night, the San Jose Earthquakes went retro, wearing the red uniforms of their predecessor in the North American Soccer League, looking back because there may be nothing to look forward to.
 The Anschutz Entertainment Group, which operates the Earthquakes in Northern California (and four other M.L.S. teams, including the MetroStars), is prepared to move the team to San Antonio or to sell it to Club America of Mexico, which would move the team to Houston, if local investors are not found by Sept. 17.
 ''It's obvious to us they don't want the team,'' Colin McCarthy said in a telephone interview, referring to A.E.G. McCarthy is a lawyer, an Earthquakes fan and the president of the grass-roots group Soccer Silicon Valley. At a meeting last week, members of the group extracted a pledge from A.E.G. officials that will give S.S.V. less than a month to find an investor to keep the team in San Jose. 
 Mayor Ed Garza of San Antonio, who was in New York yesterday talking to league officials, is interested in obtaining an expansion franchise for 2006, but he is ready to pluck the Earthquakes for next season. ''This is a market ripe for the taking,'' he told The Houston Chronicle last week.
 M.L.S. Commissioner Don Garber said in a telephone interview: ''We hope we can find a way to keep the Quakes in San Jose through the combination of local ownership and a new stadium.''
 Club America, based in Mexico City and owned by the television company Televisa, was stung when Chivas Guadalajara jumped into M.L.S., putting a second team in Los Angeles next season. Club America held negotiations with A.E.G. earlier this year about the Earthquakes.
 ''I'm not opposed to Club America becoming an investor in the Quakes, but what's the rush with selling?'' McCarthy said. ''I'm expecting the worst, but I've already heard from some possible investors, who I can't name.''
 The Earthquakes have won the M.L.S. championship in two of the past three seasons. The club has a long association with the area -- George Best played for the club in the 1980's when it was part of the N.A.S.L., and it was formerly owned by Milan Mandaric, who now runs Portsmouth of the English Premier League. San Jose has one of the best young American players, Landon Donovan, but the team continues to struggle with attendance. On Friday, Soccer Silicon Valley held a rally in downtown San Jose that drew more than 1,000 people. But Saturday's game attracted only slightly more than 10,000.
 The Earthquakes are desperate for a new stadium and have rejected a proposal to renovate Spartan Stadium.
 ''The Earthquakes would like a new publicly funded stadium dedicated to soccer that could cost the taxpayers more than $40 million,'' Mayor Ron Gonzales of San Jose wrote in an opinion article published Sunday in The San Jose Mercury News. ''In this economy, however, with a local law that requires an election for voters to approve public financing for any major sports facility, the whistle has blown the game over before we've started to play.''
 If it moved to Houston, the team could play at Robertson Stadium at the University of Houston, which holds about 30,000. A move to San Antonio could launch Garza's plan to build a soccer stadium for the new team. M.L.S. already has one team in Texas, the Dallas Burn, which will be known as F.C. Dallas 96 beginning next season.
 M.L.S. will expand to 12 teams next season with Chivas USA and another team in Salt Lake City.

MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER
Rapids Protecting Their Home Goal
 The MetroStars were a mile high and a goal short Saturday night in Colorado, a place that has been inhospitable for visiting M.L.S. clubs this season. The Rapids are 5-1-5 at home this season, scoring only nine goals but giving up four.
 Goalkeeper Joe Cannon leads the league with nine shutouts and a .919 goals against average. He has not allowed a goal at home since June 19, a span of 491 minutes. Colorado's Jordan Cila, who is from Jericho, N.Y., scored the game's only goal, his third of the season. All three have been against the MetroStars.

METROSTARS -- The club has lost two straight games by 1-0 scores after having won four of five. The club expects Pablo Brenes back for Sunday's match against second-place Columbus. Brenes played for Costa Rica in the Olympics and had a strong tournament playing on the left side of the midfield. Brenes has played in only six games for the MetroStars, starting once, and will be hard pressed to supplant Eddie Gaven.

LOS ANGELES -- Carlos Ruiz scored in the 89th minute, his 11th goal of the season, as the Galaxy salvaged a 1-1 draw with visiting Chicago in Steve Sampson's debut as coach. Sampson, the former coach of the national teams of the United States and Costa Rica, replaced Sigi Schmid last week.

COLUMBUS -- The Crew is unbeaten in its last nine games but remains in second place behind the MetroStars in the Eastern Conference after a 2-2 draw with D.C. United before a sellout crowd of 23,849 at Crew Stadium. For United, 15-year-old Freddy Adu, now attacking out of the midfield, played the full 90 minutes for a third straight game. The Crew has signed defender Tony Sanneh, who had played in Germany since 1999.

ENGLAND
Arsenal vs. Nottingham Forest
 Rampaging Arsenal can set the English record for most games without a loss (43) against the visiting Blackburn Rovers tomorrow at Highbury. If Arsenal continues its run, it could reach No. 50 against Manchester United on Oct. 24 at Old Trafford and No. 75 against its visiting north London rival, Tottenham, on April 23.
 The Nottingham Forest streak was ended in 1979 by Liverpool. Arsenal started its streak in May 2003 after a loss to Liverpool. Forest won two European Cup titles (beating Malmo of Sweden in 1979 and Hamburg of Germany in 1980), the first at the end of its domestic streak, the second the next season. Arsenal has yet to make a significant impact in European competitions.
 Forest had a 21-0-21 record during its streak; Arsenal is 30-0-12. During it streak, Forest allowed only 22 goals and had 25 shutouts; Arsenal has conceded 31 goals and has had 16 shutouts. Forest scored four or more goals once (4-0 over Manchester United in December 1977), while Arsenal has scored four or more goals nine times. Forest scored 58 goals during its streak, while Arsenal has already scored 93.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); LIBRARIANS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); DIVESTITURES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Soccer; Relocation of Business; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

ORGANIZATION: Anschutz Entertainment Group; San Jose Earthquakes

PERSON: Jack Bell

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004



540 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Folly in the West Bank

 BODY:
The Bush administration is driving American credibility as a Middle East peacemaker to a new low with its support for a major expansion of Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank. While designed to provide a short-term boost to Israel's embattled prime minister, Ariel Sharon, this cynical change in administration policy will have important long-term costs. It will further demoralize Israeli and Palestinian moderates, frustrate Washington's closest European and Middle Eastern allies, and undermine the American-backed road map peace plan, which, though a long shot, is the only current peaceful political alternative. 
 Last week Mr. Sharon issued tenders for the first 1,001 of a planned 1,634 heavily subsidized new apartments in existing West Bank settlements. Israel has long contended that expanding existing settlements, which it calls ''natural growth,'' somehow does not violate the road map's call for a freeze on all settlement activity, even though the road map specifically excludes this form of expansion. ''Natural growth'' has accounted for most of the nearly 100,000 additional West Bank settlers since 1992, a near doubling of the settler population there. Most of these, including the latest group, have been attracted by huge government subsidies. Yesterday Israel announced it was rezoning land for a further 533 new settler homes on the outskirts of Jerusalem.
 Settlements are such a sensitive matter because they cut directly to the core of the Israeli-Palestinian issue -- the ultimate division of the land of Palestine. To be just, workable and sustainable, any peace plan will have to divide that land into two coherent territories that are defensible and economically viable. The presence of more than 250,000 Israeli settlers scattered across the occupied West Bank, Gaza Strip and Golan Heights, leaving aside the added complications of East Jerusalem, make that division immeasurably harder. Every new increase, ''natural'' or otherwise, adds to the challenge. No one step by Israel would be likely to do more to restart peace talks and isolate Palestinian terrorists than announcing a genuine freeze on all settlement construction. 
 No recent administration has been less engaged in the pursuit of Middle East peace than the Bush administration. Now it seems to be sliding from dangerous passivity to outright obstruction. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ZONING (70%); TERRORISM (63%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (54%) Editorials; Palestinians; United States International Relations

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); MIDDLE EAST (94%) Israel; West Bank

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004



541 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: State Certifies Yonkers Budget (But Not Without a Warning)

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Aug. 23 

 BODY:
State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi certified Yonkers's overdue budget on Monday but said the plan still troubled him, and he warned that unless the city devises a blueprint for its long-term financial health it faces a future of budget crises.
 ''The budget has serious problems, specifically a number of one-shot revenues and an optimistic projection,'' Mr. Hevesi said in a written statement issued by his office. ''Most important, there is no long-term plan for how Yonkers will deal with its continuing financial problems.'' 
 Since 1976, the state's comptroller has had to certify Yonkers's budget each year before the city could collect taxes and borrow money. But the tension between the city and Albany became particularly acute this year. The city's council approved a $681.6 million spending plan on Aug. 12, six weeks late and the last among governing authorities in the state with a July 1 budget deadline. The plan was approved only after Mr. Hevesi threatened legal action against the city.
 In a letter sent to Mayor Philip A. Amicone on Monday, Mr. Hevesi outlined six principal concerns with Yonkers's budget, including the city's use of its fund balance to pay for operating expenses and its practice of borrowing to help balance the budget.
 ''The city's decision to borrow for expenses that were previously paid on a pay-as-you-go basis is a troubling indicator of the city's future financial health,'' Mr. Hevesi said in the letter.
 He also suggested that the city's mortgage tax estimate was overly optimistic and criticized the lack of funds to cover either unanticipated emergencies or pay for raises that might result from ongoing contract talks with three unions.
 Finally, Mr. Hevesi urged the city to develop a long-range financial plan that would anticipate a new revenue source for the school system to replace the decline of state desegregation settlement payments, which will end in 2006.
 The school board is facing a $25 million budget shortfall this year, which prompted the laying off of 419 teachers and staff this summer, including most music and art teachers, guidance counselors, psychologists and social workers. The cutbacks also included the elimination of all extracurricular activities and interscholastic sports except for fall varsity sports in the high schools.
 Mr. Amicone has insisted that the state has the obligation to make up the school board's shortfall.
 In Mr. Hevesi's statement, he acknowledged that ''Yonkers officials believe they are not getting their fair share of state support.'' But Mr. Hevesi added that ''constant budget crises are bad for Yonkers schools and bad for its economy and in the long run will cause more damage than any realistic increase in aid would offset.''
 Mr. Amicone and the office of Yonkers Finance Commissioner James LaPerche did not return calls on Monday for comment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (87%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (73%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (67%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (66%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (61%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (53%) Budgets and Budgeting; Education and Schools

PERSON: Kirk Semple; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Yonkers (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004



542 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Why Camping Isn't What It Used to Be

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 David Brooks is right that stratification of society has accounted for the ''professionalization'' of the lives of teenagers. But perhaps this has less to do with pushy parents, as Mr. Brooks suggests, and more to do with the declining state of our economy's job picture.
 Upper-middle-class kids who forgo high school work experience for camp risk being excluded from top colleges, which in turn may deprive them of a shot at one of the shrinking number of high-paying, skilled positions in the United States.
 And many of the ''poorer kids from Brooklyn and the Bronx'' are very likely working summers these days to help their families make ends meet, since more of their parents are unemployed or in minimum-wage jobs that can't sustain families as they once could. 
 Maybe kids could afford just to be kids if they weren't forced to assume adult roles by our gloomy labor situation.

Jonathan A. Pastor
Fort Lee, N.J., Aug. 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); ADOLESCENTS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%) Camps and Camping; Episcopal Church

ORGANIZATION: episcopal camp and conference center

PERSON: Jonathan A Pastor; David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004



543 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: SWING STATES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1590 words

HEADLINE: In Battle for Pennsylvania, Philadelphia Suburbs Probably Hold the 
Key

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WAYNE, Pa. 

 BODY:
The ladies lunching on the veranda of the venerable Wayne Hotel here had nothing nice to say about Senator John Kerry, but that did not prevent them from saying it. 
 ''He's a fraud,'' said Alida Haslett, 53, who works in a framing shop and lives in nearby Bryn Mawr. ''I don't believe he's a war hero.''
 Her companions were equally sour on Mr. Kerry, the Democratic presidential nominee. 
 ''He's a Kennedy wannabe,'' said Carol Ogelsby, 50, who sells real estate.
 ''There's nothing like a wannabe,'' put in Betsy Grace, also 50, who works in architectural restoration.
 Those women are crucial to President Bush's hopes for winning Pennsylvania. They voice no complaints about the economy, see the American presence in Iraq as positive and support the president's opposition to same-sex marriage, although they are mixed on his opposition to abortion rights.
 In short, the women reflect the Republican values that have prevailed for generations along this stretch of long-settled affluent suburbs named for the Main Line of the Pennsylvania Railroad, which began ferrying commuters westward from Philadelphia in the 1880's and where, Ms. Ogelsby said, the median price of a home runs $700,000 to $800,000.
 But Mr. Bush cannot take too much comfort from the women. Even they expressed a sense of foreboding about his chances here in November. Ms. Grace conceded that she was at odds with her own family. 
 ''They're not all Republicans,'' she said. ''In fact, I'm probably one of the few. It's a little scary.'' 
 Ms. Ogelsby said that she had Republican friends ''who are angry at Bush and went to see 'Fahrenheit 9/11,' and they all stood up and clapped at the end.''
 Voters here in Delaware County and in three other suburban counties are overwhelmingly registered Republicans. But three of the counties, Bucks, Delaware and Montgomery, tipped the state for Bill Clinton in 1992 and 1996 and for Al Gore in 2000. 
 This trend in the state's affluent southeastern suburbs is reflected in the state's grittier southwestern counties, where the economy has long been tied to big steel. Since the New Deal and the rise of unions, those counties have been staunchly Democratic. But for nearly two decades, the culturally conservative blue-collar workers in the southwest, where hunting is practically a religion, have been leaning Republican.
 Because the suburban southeast and Philadelphia are bigger than the old mill towns of the southwest and Pittsburgh, the southeast tends to control statewide elections. The state last voted for a Republican for president in 1988, when the suburbs sided with the first George Bush.
 For several weeks, Mr. Kerry has been leading in state polls by five or six percentage points. Depending on the poll, Mr. Bush is losing the suburbs or is only slightly ahead, but not by enough to carry the state, at least now.
 Either way, analysts and both campaigns pinpoint the suburbs as the battleground of this much-tussled-over state, where Mr. Bush has made 32 campaign visits, more than to any other state and a clear sign of the importance of its 21 electoral votes.
 ''If you win the Philly suburbs, you win the state,'' said G. Terry Madonna, a political scientist at Franklin and Marshall College in Lancaster. ''The Republicans can't give up that many votes in the suburbs and still make them up somewhere else.''
 Mr. Bush's camp says it can.
 ''You still need to win in the suburbs,'' Leslie Gromis Baker, the Mid-Atlantic regional chairwoman for the Bush campaign, said. ''But you don't need the margin you used to, because you can make it up in the southwest.''
 Ms. Gromis Baker argued that when the economy was good -- or good enough -- Democrats in the southwestern counties outside Pittsburgh would vote Republican because they felt more in tune with Republican values.
 Polls show the economy and the Iraq conflict -- or more broadly terrorism -- vying as the most important issue. Voters disapprove of the job Mr. Bush is doing, saying that it was wrong to go into Iraq and that it is time for a change. 
 Robert Sless, 56, owner of the Station Cafe, tucked into the historic train station here, reflects that reality and, like others here, seemed more anti-Bush than pro-Kerry.
 ''I'm a big Kerry fan,'' Mr. Sless said. Then, he quickly corrected himself. 
 ''Well,'' he added, ''let's put it this way. I'm not necessarily a big Kerry fan, but I'm not a big Bush fan, and I think we need a change in this country.''
 Mr. Sless works two jobs, at the cafe and as a manager in the shoe department at the Nordstrom store in the nearby King of Prussia mall. He sees many people who are, as he put it, ''recessionproof.'' But he said that he felt the economic squeeze and opposed the military action in Iraq.
 ''The No.1 issue for me is that we're spending too much of our tax dollars supporting what's going on in Iraq,'' he said. ''It would be nice if during these past few years of recession we could have been spending it to improve our economy.'' 
 Anger at the war in this region is intense. Gov. Edward G. Rendell, a Democrat, said the southeastern area had been saturated with bad news about Iraq because several people involved in the prisoner-abuse scandal and two people who were beheaded in Iraq were from the Philadelphia news media market. Josh Gansky, 30, a school counselor who was shopping at the farmers' market farther down the Main Line, in Ardmore, said Iraq was central.
 ''Bush went in without a plan,'' Mr. Gansky said. ''He didn't understand the culture and the people who live there, and I think that sums up his attitude toward America. He doesn't understand the culture or the people who live here.''
 In the little borough of Narberth, closer to Philadelphia, several anti-Bush signs have appeared on lawns. One is at the house of Charles Bosk, 56, a professor of sociology and medial ethics at the University of Pennsylvania, who said he was disgusted with Mr. Bush and traced that disgust to the president's inability at a news conference in April to pinpoint any mistakes he might have made.
 ''The absence of thoughtfulness, the absence of going back over the record, the absence of thinking about and having an articulate response to what might have been different, that was a shocking moment,'' said Mr. Bosk, who studies medical errors and patient safety. ''He is guilty of political malpractice.
 ''I've never felt that the country was in such incapable hands.''
 Pennsylvania is a hodgepodge of crosscultural currents and economies. For all the anger toward Mr. Bush in the suburbs, the polls show he continues to command the vast rural counties in the middle of the state. The president also appears to be holding his own in the Democratic but conservative northeast, home of the late Gov. Robert P. Casey, a Democrat whose opposition to abortion alienated him from much of his national party.
 Mr. Bush is running behind, but not by a lot, in parts of the southwest, home to the blue-collar Reagan Democrats as well as Mr. Kerry's wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, widow of Senator John Heinz of Pennsylvania. She maintains a home in Pittsburgh, where the Heinz name and foundations are enormously influential. To emphasize this connection, Mr. Kerry calls their visits there a ''homecoming.''
 The question is whether Mr. Bush can find enough votes in the other areas to compensate for the Philadelphia suburbs. Experts said that depended in part on whether Mr. Kerry could rally voters around his plans for the economy.
 Although the state has lost 157,000 manufacturing jobs since Mr. Bush became president, new jobs are being created, although they do not pay nearly as well as the old jobs. The state unemployment rate of 5.6 percent in July was a shade off the national average of 5.5 percent.
 Voters perceive Mr. Kerry as better able to handle the economy, the polls show, but they also perceive Mr. Bush as a stronger leader and better able to handle terrorism.
 [In a Keystone Poll for Franklin and Marshall College released on Aug. 17, 35 percent of voters strongly agreed with the statement that Mr. Bush ''shows strong leadership qualities,'' with 24 percent saying that about Mr. Kerry. 
 [The president frequently uses visits to the state to emphasize these traits, as he did on Aug. 17 at a Boeing plant here in Delaware County, where he focused on national security. Mr. Bush also received high marks -- 37 percent -- in the poll for saying ''what he believes, not what people want to hear,'' a category where Mr. Kerry had 19 percent.]
 Candor is important to voters like George Howard, 80, a retired printer who was walking his dog past the smokestacks of an old steel mill in Homestead, south of Pittsburgh.
 ''Kerry?'' Mr. Howard asked. ''He's like the wind. He says one thing and then he says something else. I know where Bush stands.''
 Where Mr. Bush stands on the issues is not necessarily where Mr. Howard stands. He said he was unhappy with the economy because his daughter could not find work. And he said he was furious about the war in Iraq. But Mr. Howard owns a gun, loves to hunt and said he was likely to vote for the president. 
 ''If it wasn't for the war, I would definitely vote for Bush,'' he said.
 Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster who has studied Pennsylvania extensively, said many voters saw the economy as the overriding issue and yet were prone to vote more on character than economic policy.
 ''Our job is to change that equation,'' Ms. Lake said. ''They think Bush has a strong, steady character. If social issues trump the economy, the Republicans win.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Three women who reflect Republican values, Betsy Grace, left
Carol Ogelsby, center
and Alida Haslett. (Photo by Bradley C. Bower for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''The Keystone State''Philadelphia and its suburbs in southeast Pennsylvania tend to control the outcome of statewide elections. The state last voted for a Republican president in 1988, when the Philadelphia suburbs went for George Bush.HOW THE COUNTIES VOTED IN 2000In each county, squares are sized according to the total number of votes cast and shaded by the winning candidate.Map of Pennsylvania highlighting total votes casted for Bush and Gore in each county.MARGIN OF VICTORYMargin of victory in percentage points in past presidential elections.2000DEMOCRATIC: 4 POINT WIN1996DEMOCRATIC: 91992DEMOCRATIC: 91988REPUBLICAN: 21984REPUBLICAN: 71980REPUBLICAN: 71976DEMOCRATIC: 31972REPUBLICAN: 201968DEMOCRATIC: 4PENNSYLVANIA'S ECONOMYGraphs track Pennsylvania's economy in the following areas since 1999:Change in real household income versus year earlierChange in median homeprice versus year earlierUnemployment ratePercentage without health insuranceELECTED OFFICIALSGOV.DEM. 1REP. 0SEN.DEM.: 0REP.: 2REPRESENTATIVESDEM.: 7REP.: 12DEMOGRAPHICSBLACKSPA.: 10%U.S.: 12HISPANICPA.: 3%U.S.: 13ASIANPA.: 2%U.S.: 4MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOMEPA.: $43,577U.S.: 43,052(Sources by Dave Leips Atlas of Presidential Elections
Economy.com
Bureau of Labor Statistics
National Association of Realtors
 Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); COUNTIES (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TRENDS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (69%); MARRIAGE (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (67%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (53%); ABORTION (52%) Presidential Election of 2004; Surveys and Series; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (72%); AL GORE (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%) Philadelphia (Pa); Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004



544 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 34 words

 BODY:

DOLLAR CLIMBS. The dollar gained as further declines in oil prices helped soothe worries over the resiliency of the United States economy. In New York, the euro settled at $1.2074, down from $1.2148 on Monday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since March 2003. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%) Currency; United States Economy; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004



545 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Home Resales Dropped 2.9% Last Month

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Sales of previously owned homes fell 2.9 percent in July from a record in June, the first drop in seven months, a private report showed yesterday. 
 Resales declined to 6.72 million single-family houses at an annual rate, the third highest on record, after a revised 6.92 million in June and 6.81 million in May, the National Association of Realtors said in Washington. 
 Sales were forecast to fall to a 6.81 million annual rate in July. Estimates ranged from 6.5 million to 7.1 million. 
 The median sale price was $191,300, up 8.7 percent from July of last year. 
 Rising mortgage rates in June, when many contracts for July resales were signed, might have deterred some buyers. The record-setting pace of sales growth set in the first half of 2004 could not be sustained, economists said. 
 ''I've been looking for these numbers to fade for several months now, because they've been so incredibly high,'' said Joel Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa. ''There's almost no place to go but down.'' 
 Thirty-year mortgage rates averaged 6.29 percent in June, up from 6.27 percent in May and 5.91 percent in April.
 ''The most interesting thing about the July numbers is that they reflect closed properties in June, when interest rates were actually rising,'' said James Gillespie, chief executive of Coldwell Banker Real Estate, a unit of the Cendant Corporation, adding that his company's sales in July rose 11 percent. ''That's a good number any time,'' he said. 
 Home purchases may also have been aided in recent months by concerns among buyers that rates would continue to increase as the Federal Reserve raised borrowing costs to deter inflation, John Ryding, chief United States economist at Bear Stearns, wrote in a note. 
 The Fed's Open Market Committee raised the target rate for overnight loans between banks to 1.25 percent from near a 46-year low of 1 percent on June 30, and again to 1.5 percent on Aug. 10. The committee meets again Sept. 21. 
 Instead of rising with the target rate, mortgage rates have declined. Last week, the typical 30-year rate was 5.81 percent, close to the record low annual average of 5.8 percent set in 1965, according to Freddie Mac, the second-biggest buyer of mortgages.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A house for sale in Homewood, Ala. Rising mortgage rates in June might have deterred some potential buyers in July. (Photo by Gary Tramontina/Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); EXISTING HOME SALES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Housing; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages; Interest Rates

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (66%); COLDWELL BANKER REAL ESTATE CORP (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%) National Assn of Realtors

TICKER: CAR (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (66%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (66%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (66%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (66%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004



546 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Fischer Loses Latest Appeal On Deportation From Japan

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO, Aug. 24 

 BODY:
Japan ordered Tuesday that Bobby Fischer, the American chess master wanted in the United States for violating a trade embargo, be deported after rejecting his request for protection as a political refugee, his supporters said.
 Mr. Fischer's lawyers immediately filed an appeal with the Justice Ministry, and it was not expected that a final move to deport him would be made soon. 
 The ministry explained its decision to reject Mr. Fischer's bid for political asylum, saying the charges against him in the United States were ''not political in nature,'' according to a statement released by the chess player's supporters, the Committee to Free Bobby Fischer.
 In 1992, Mr. Fischer earned $3.3 million by beating Boris Spassky in a chess rematch in Belgrade of their cold war duel in Iceland. A warrant for his arrest was issued on charges that he violated a trade embargo on the former Yugoslavia.
 The United States ordered the revocation of Mr. Fischer's passport in December, and he was detained on July 13 as he tried to fly from here to Manila. His lawyer said Mr. Fischer, 61, had learned that his passport had been revoked only when he tried to board the flight.
 In the first match against Mr. Spassky, in 1972, Mr. Fischer became a national hero by breaking the Soviet grip on world chess and becoming the first American chess champion in more than a century.
 Last Friday, the Tokyo District Court rejected another attempt to halt the deportation proceedings against Mr. Fischer, who filed an appeal immediately. Mr. Fischer, who is being held at an immigration center in Ushiku, Ibaraki Prefecture, has also tried to fend off deportation by trying to renounce his American citizenship and by marrying a Japanese woman, Miyoko Watai, 59, the acting president of the Japan Chess Association.
 Mr. Fischer, a brilliant but eccentric recluse, has become increasingly vocal in recent years, making a series of anti-Semitic statements on his personal Web site and harshly criticizing the United States, which he said in a radio interview should be ''wiped out.'' His supporters maintain that the charges against him are politically motivated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEPORTATION (93%); BOARD GAMES (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); IMMIGRATION (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); APPEALS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); LAWYERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); SPORTS FANS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ARREST WARRANTS (70%); ARRESTS (70%); CITIZENSHIP (69%) Chess; Deportation ; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Asylum (Political)

PERSON: Norimitsu Onishi; Bobby Fischer

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) KANTO, JAPAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); ICELAND (79%); SERBIA (79%) Yugoslavia

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004



547 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Romance of Tobacco Brought to Life

 BODY:
''Bright Leaves'' was shown as part of last year's New York Film Festival. Following are excerpts from Stephen Holden's review, which appeared in The New York Times on Oct. 11, 2003; the full text is online at nytimes.com/movies. The film opens today at the Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, west of Sixth Avenue, South Village.
 To describe Ross McElwee's documentary film ''Bright Leaves'' as a study of the tobacco industry in North Carolina, his native state, would be a little like calling a Virginia Woolf novel a manual of etiquette. By the end of this reflective, wise and often hilarious movie, you feel as if he has slapped a huge chunk of raw, palpitating life onto the screen.
 Birth, death, illness, family and social history, childhood and old age, moviemaking, geography and commerce are among the topics Mr. McElwee weaves into a dense but surprisingly orderly bundle of information, memory and conjecture. As a photographer he has a knack for studying a weather-beaten face and instantly discovering the soul inside. Whether he's recording a family gathering, contemplating the beauty of the coastline and his young son frolicking in the surf, or surveying a tobacco field, Mr. McElwee conveys a sensuous appreciation of life. 
 Mr. McElwee, who has made seven feature-length documentaries, is really an American humorist in a tradition that extends from Mark Twain through Garrison Keillor. Narrating the movie in the laid-back drawl of an affable Southern storyteller, he turns personal experience into a speculative personal mythology that is meant to be taken with a big grain of salt.
 This filmmaker is continually connecting the past and present, meditating on what film can and cannot capture of experience, and on the relationship between family history and his own personal changes. Family members and friends appear in vintage clips like vivid flashes of recollection.
 Like an expert yarn-spinner, Mr. McElwee practices a kind of narrative sleight of hand. Although he pretends to be a modest, nearly invisible observer of the life around him, he also plays God by turning his experience of the world into an unfolding home movie. 
 The quest he undertakes in ''Bright Leaves'' is rooted (as his movies often are) in his own family background. His great-grandfather was a tobacco king who created the Bull Durham brand, then lost his fortune to a rival clan, the Dukes, who became North Carolina royalty. Through a cousin who collects vintage films and movie memorabilia, he becomes fixated on a 1950 black-and-white melodrama, ''Bright Leaf,'' about the tobacco wars of the late 19th century, starring Gary Cooper, Lauren Bacall and Patricia Neal.
 McElwee family lore has it that the movie, directed by Michael Curtiz and adapted from a novel by Foster Fitz-Simons, is the story of his great-grandfather. And it prompts Mr. McElwee to embark on an eccentric quest to document the connection. He obsessively reruns the movie and interviews a film scholar along with Ms. Neal and the original novelist's widow.
 But that search is only the spine of a movie that also explores the history and mystique of tobacco, incorporating interviews with smokers of every stripe, from teenagers to dying cancer patients. Mr. McElwee comes from a family of doctors who have treated countless patients for smoking-related illnesses. Some of the film's most sobering moments are Mr. McElwee's uneasy reflections on tobacco as a killer versus its beauty as a plant and its vital role in the economy of North Carolina.
 Because the movie is not a screed against tobacco, some may find it irresponsible for soft pedaling a life-and-death issue. In any case ''Bright Leaves'' leaves you feeling invigorated by the boundless curiosity, humor and high spirits of its creator.



GRAPHIC: Photo: A North Carolina tobacco farmer in ''Bright Leaves,'' a documentary by Ross McElwee, whose great-grandfather was a tobacco king. (Photo by First Run Features)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); FAMILY (88%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); HISTORY (76%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (74%); COMEDY FILMS (73%); TOBACCO FARMING (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: Stephen Holden

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (57%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004



548 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: State Comptroller Will Audit Struggling Westchester Hospital

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
The New York State comptroller's office announced yesterday that it would conduct a thorough audit of Westchester Medical Center, a regional hospital in Valhalla, N.Y., that has been struggling to pull itself out of a financial crisis.
 Last month Westchester County officials asked the comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, to undertake an audit after The Journal News detailed high travel and lodging expenses incurred by a Chicago consulting firm that had been hired to help the hospital right its finances.
 In a letter to the hospital dated Aug. 19 and made public yesterday, the comptroller's office said the audit, which is to begin in September, would include a review of the medical center's financial condition, the use of reserve funds and administrative expenses, in addition to consultant contracts. 
 The hospital has not been directly controlled by the county since 1998. But Westchester still guarantees a large portion of its debt, and county officials have expressed concern that the hospital's ill fiscal health could hurt the county. In recent months, the county has sought more input into the hospital's operations through an oversight committee.
 William J. Ryan, chairman of the county's Board of Legislators, who requested the audit along with County Executive Andrew J. Spano, praised the comptroller's decision. ''I think that it's the appropriate next step,'' Mr. Ryan said. He added that he hoped the audit would cover the past several years, but said he had no reservations about the current management team, Pitts Management Associates of Baton Rouge, La.
 In June, hospital administrators announced another round of layoffs, saying that the cuts would help reduce escalating deficits. The medical center is projecting a deficit of $31.6 million for this year, less than half of the loss posted for last year.
 Gene A. Capello, chairman of the board of the Westchester County Health Care Corporation, which oversees the hospital, questioned the need for an audit, citing the favorable opinion from a reputable outside accounting firm that recently finished an audit. 
 ''It does drain necessary time and manpower from our staff,'' he said, but added that his staff would comply. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LAYOFFS (71%) Medicine and Health; Finances; Hospitals

ORGANIZATION: Westchester Medical Center (Valhalla, NY)

PERSON: Lisa W Foderaro; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004



549 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Fall for 3rd Day as Fears Ease

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 24 

 BODY:
Oil prices fell for a third day on Tuesday, retreating from the record highs of near $50 a barrel set last week, as exports from Iraq resumed and traders worried less about supply shortages. 
 In New York, light low-sulfur crude for October delivery fell 84 cents, to $45.21 a barrel, on Tuesday. On Friday, the last day for trading September contracts, the price briefly hit $49.40 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange before falling to $48.70.
 Oil prices remain about a third higher than they were in July, run up by a succession of geopolitical threats to supply -- renewed fighting in Iraq, legal squabbling in Russia and political infighting in Venezuela. Most oil-producing countries are pumping all they can, leaving the market little capacity to adjust if a big producer halts exports. 
 Events in Iraq have dominated trading on the oil markets this month. Prices rose when Iraqi exports were halved, then fell this week on reports that exports had resumed in the north of the country and returned to normal in the south.
 ''There's a lot of politics in the price, a lot of expectations of the worst,'' said Mehdi Varzi, senior energy consultant at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in London. ''Perhaps today the market is slightly less concerned about supply disruptions than it was last week. But still, there is concern.''
 Ripple effects from fighting at the shrine of Imam Ali in Najaf, where American forces and the American-backed interim government have been battling supporters of the rebel cleric Moktada al-Sadr, have been felt far beyond the city. Mr. al-Sadr's loyalists have threatened to attack Iraq's oil facilities. Ever since American troops entered Baghdad in April 2003, opponents of the new government have seen Iraq's oil industry as the country's Achilles' heel. Sabotage attacks in the north of the country kept a pipeline to Turkey, one of Iraq's main export routes, partly shut down for more than a year.
 In the south, in Basra, insurgents set fire Thursday night to the headquarters of the company that operates Iraq's southern oil fields. Fighting forced one of two pipelines in the south to be shut down on Aug. 8.
 Over the weekend, the pipeline to Turkey was reopened and exports flowed from the south at normal levels again. That put Iraq's export levels close to the prewar rate of just over 2 million barrels a day.
 The recent victory by the Venezuelan president, Hugo Chavez, in a recall referendum has eased market worry about that country, but Russia remains a concern. The Kremlin's pursuit of huge tax claims against Yukos, the country's leading oil producer, appeared likely to crimp output. Yukos said on Monday that its 2004 production would probably average 1.72 million barrels a day, 4.5 percent less than it had forecast, though 6 percent more than last year. Export volumes would probably not be affected. 
 So far, there have been few signs that oil prices have hurt the economic recovery in the United States very much. Ben S. Bernanke, a governor of the Federal Reserve, said Monday that he thought $50-a-barrel crude ''won't derail what looks like a self-sustaining expansion at this point.''
 ''The Fed has some scope to respond to the weakening of the economy associated with an oil price increase, so long as we are confident that inflation will remain stable,'' Mr. Bernanke said in an interview on the Public Broadcasting Service. 
 Though Friday's peak price was the highest since the Nymex opened in 1983, oil prices are not extraordinarily high by historic standards. When inflation is taken into account, crude oil would have to rise to about $80 a barrel to match the levels of March 1981.
 Though the unreliability of supply from Iraq has helped push prices up, strong demand has been the main factor in the broader rise in energy prices this year. The International Energy Agency, an adviser to 26 industrialized nations, estimates that global oil demand will reach 82.2 million barrels a day this year, an increase of 3.2 percent, and will rise another 1.8 million barrels a day, or 2.2 percent, in 2005. 
 The boom in China is a primary reason; net Chinese imports of crude oil and refined products like gasoline and jet fuel have doubled in less than two years, the energy agency said. ''The confluence of real and suspected political risk has added a premium on oil prices, while demand from China has surprised everyone,'' said Ian Bremmer, president of the Eurasia Group, a New York consulting firm.
 There is not much that even the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries can do to moderate prices, analysts say. Members of the cartel, which produces a third of the world's crude oil supply, are pumping about 30 million barrels of oil a day, and only one member -- Saudi Arabia, the largest producer in the group -- is thought to have any ability to increase output further.
 The Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, has said that the country has added one million barrels a day to output in recent months and could pump 1.5 million more a day if needed. But the market has taken little notice of the offer so far, partly because most of the new oil the Saudis could deliver quickly would be undesirably heavy and high in sulfur, and thus difficult to refine. 
 There is no consensus on where prices may be headed. 
 ''The market is concerned about the long-term reliability of supply from Middle Eastern countries,'' Mr. Varzi of Dresdner said. ''The problem is that, fundamentally, $45 a barrel is way beyond what the market can sustain. What goes up must go down.''
 But Bruce Evers, an analyst at Investec in London, said that Iraq's oil infrastructure was still a potential target and was still threatened.
 ''Fifty dollars a barrel isn't a question of if, but when,'' Mr. Evers said. ''There's every chance these pipelines will get blown up again, and prices will spike. We're not out of the woodwork yet, not by far.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Events in Iraq, where fighting can make the flow of oil change sharply in a few days, have dominated trading on the world markets this month. (Photo by Essam Al-Sudani/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
Exports from Southern Iraq, where the Basra South refinery, left, is located, returned to normal this week after shipments were disrupted this month. (Photo by Atef Hassan/Reuters)(pg. C1)
 Strong demand for oil has been a factor in the rise in energy prices this year. And most oil producers, including Iraq, whose Al Bakra oil platform is shown in May, are pumping as much as they can. (Photo by Tim Ockenden/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C7)Chart tracks crude oil prices (near-month contracts) since January.JAN. 5: $33.78YESTERDAY: $45.21(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); FUTURES (79%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); POLITICS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); REFERENDUMS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Shortages; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (82%); OAO NK YUKOS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (82%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (59%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (57%) Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (59%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); TURKEY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); FRANCE (59%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004



550 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Bonds's 700th Will Be Pricey, but Not Ruthian

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Imagine this scene: Barry Bonds slams his 700th home run out of SBC Park sometime next month and offers $20 to the fan who wrestles the ball from an armada of angry kayakers before it is waterlogged in McCovey Cove. Bonds would be deemed a miser and the fan would probably sue him for mental cruelty.
 Yet when Babe Ruth hit his 700th, on July 13, 1934, he got away with the $20 swap.
 Ruth hit that homer out of Navin Field in Detroit off Tommy Bridges in the third inning of a 4-2 Yankees victory over the Tigers. According to an article in The New York Times, Ruth shouted, ''I want that ball!'' before he circled the bases. 
 Unidentified ''emissaries'' were then dispatched to hunt for the ball; they returned with Leonard Beals, the youngster who retrieved it. 
 Beals was taken to the Yankees' dugout, where he gave Ruth the ball, and Ruth handed him $20 and a signed ball. In a photograph, both looked mildly satisfied.
 Maybe Ruth knew he had struck a bargain or that no fan could resist his charms and a crisp $20 bill. Ruth had previously established the $20 ceiling as a bounty for his significant home runs; he paid that sum for the balls he hit for his 500th and 600th, The Times reported.
 Adjusted for inflation, Ruth's reward would now amount to $277.
 It's easy now to sneer at Ruth and say: ''Hey, big spender! You made more than the president and you can't give the kid more?'' But this was 70 years ago, in the midst of the Great Depression, before nostalgia turned game-used sports artifacts into memorabilia. And $20 went pretty far back then. Tickets for ''Tobacco Road'' on Broadway cost no more than $2, and a one-bedroom apartment on East 92nd Street in Manhattan rented for only $40 a month.
 By 1961, the price of history began to climb. A restaurant owner paid Sal Durante $5,000 for the ball Roger Maris hit for his 61st home run that season. In late 1998, the first home run hit at Yankee Stadium, by Ruth, on April 18, 1923, was auctioned for $126,500. Two months later, Mark McGwire's 70th home run ball sold for $2.7 million.
 Last year, a court battle between the fans who claimed the legal right to Bonds's 73rd home run ball from the 2001 season led to an auction that yielded $450,000.
 In one of the inequities of a quirky market, Bonds's 70th home run ball from 2001, the homer that tied McGwire's record, was purchased for $52,500 -- yet the one deflected from Cubs outfielder Moises Alou by a fan, Steve Bartman, during Game 6 of last year's National League Championship Series against Florida, was acquired for $113,824 in order to be blown up outside Harry Caray's Restaurant in Chicago.
 Bonds is only 7 home runs from 700, which is a significant marker but not a record breaker. What will Bonds's homer No. 700 be worth, assuming it is auctioned?
 ''I believe it's a six-figure ball,'' said Doug Allen, president of MastroNet, a memorabilia auctioneer.
 Arlan Ettinger, whose Guernsey's auction house sold the McGwire ball, added: ''The 700th won't be his last home run, so one could argue that it would be worth less than the $450,000 for his 73rd. My guess is $200,000 to $250,000.''
 However long Ruth kept the 700th home run ball is unknown. (Ruth's 710th home run ball is in the Baseball Hall of Fame, as are Aaron's 700th and 714th, which tied Ruth's record.) Ruth's daughter, Julia Ruth Stevens, said yesterday that she had no memory of it. 
 ''Oh gosh, we hardly have anything,'' she said from her home in New Hampshire.
 Less than three weeks after Ruth hit the first home run at Yankee Stadium, he donated the bat, which he signed, to The Los Angeles Evening Herald as the grand prize to the winner of a high school hitting contest. The winner died in 1984, and willed the bat to his caretaker. Now, it is to be auctioned in December by Sotheby's and SportsCards Plus, for what they expect to be at least $1 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); AUCTIONS (86%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); ATHLETES (68%); BONDS (58%) Baseball; Memorabilia

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); DETROIT TIGERS (57%) New York Yankees

PERSON: Richard Sandomir; George Herman (Babe) (1895-1948) Ruth

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004



551 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Report Adds Fuel To Welfare Debate

BYLINE: By Leslie Kaufman (NYT); Compiled by George James

 BODY:
Welfare rolls did not rise during the recession of 2001 to 2003, in part because the city stepped up the rejection rate for those seeking aid to 27 percent from 18 percent, according to a report from the Independent Budget Office released yesterday. The report adds fuel to an old debate about the 1995 reform of the city's cash assistance program. Critics have argued that the city is inappropriately blocking individuals seeking aid. But Pat Smith, the first deputy commissioner of the Human Resources Administration, said there were legitimate reasons for the higher rejection rates, including hidden assets ferreted out by computers and better job placement rates for applicants. Leslie Kaufman (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (85%); EMPLOYMENT (50%) Welfare (US)

ORGANIZATION: Independent Budget Office; Human Resources Administration (NYC)

PERSON: Leslie Kaufman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004



552 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Home Price Rises Hard to Track, Fed Chief Says

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Federal Reserve policy makers cannot accurately tell whether home values are overheating, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, said in a written response released yesterday to a lawmaker's questions about the potential formation of a housing bubble.
 ''House price increases have outstripped gains in income and rents in recent years,'' Mr. 
Greenspan said in a letter to Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama, after the Fed chairman testified before the panel on July 20. While that ''raises the possibility that real estate prices, at least in some markets, could be out of alignment with the fundamentals,'' Mr. Greenspan added, ''that conclusion cannot be reached with any confidence.'' 
 ''House prices are difficult to measure given the enormous heterogeneity of the U.S. housing stock,'' Mr. Greenspan said
 He said the global economic recovery ''has become both stronger and more sustainable'' in the last year, even though growth in Asia ''appears to have braked sharply in recent months, as policy measures muffled the boom in the Chinese economy.'' Economic recovery in Latin America and Canada ''appear to be on track.'' 
 In Japan, the country's economy ''may finally be on its way to a self-sustaining recovery,'' Mr. Greenspan said. Growth in Japan and elsewhere in Asia faces ''significant risks'' from ''the possibility of a hard landing in China,'' he said. 
 The Fed chairman also said that the ''case has not been made'' for a need to specifically monitor hedge funds. 
 ''Concerns about market manipulation, whether by hedge funds or others, can best be addressed by enhanced market surveillance,'' Mr. Greenspan said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (93%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (86%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BONDS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); TRENDS (72%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Economic Conditions and Trends; Stocks and Bonds; Hedge Funds ; Housing; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); RICHARD SHELBY (79%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Richard C (Sen) Shelby

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); CANADA (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (91%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%) Latin America; Canada; Japan

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004



553 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

U.S. Conducts Searches In Move to Stop File Sharing
Federal authorities conducted six searches in a move to disrupt a network used to trade copies of movies, software, games and music. The Justice Department said the searches were the first criminal enforcement action related to copyright law aimed at peer-to-peer networks.
 In a peer-to-peer network, like the widely used Kazaa system, the computers of individual users connect to each other to trade files without going through a central computer. The Justice Department has stepped up enforcement of copyright law this year, but until now has focused on the theft of copies of movies and other material to make them available to downloaders. [Page C4.]

Toronto-Dominion Bank in Talks
Shares of Toronto-Dominion Bank traded on the New York Stock Exchange dropped 2.9 percent after the company confirmed that it was negotiating to buy all or part of the Banknorth Group. Shares of Banknorth, which has 350 branches operating under four different brands in Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York and Vermont, increased 10 percent, to $34.88. [C3.]

Sales of New Homes Decline
New home sales slid 6.4 percent in July, to a 1.134 million annual rate, while orders for goods expected to last at least three years gained 1.7 percent. [C4.]

Slump in Oil Prices Continues
Crude oil for October delivery dropped $1.74, or 3.9 percent, to $43.47 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. [C7.]

Equity Firm Buying Dresser-Rand
First Reserve, a private equity buyout firm specializing in energy, said that it would buy Dresser-Rand, a maker of oil and gas refining equipment, for $1.2 billion. [C3.]

Settlement in Janitor Pay Dispute
The Labor Department announced a $1.9 million settlement with Global Building Services, a contractor of the Target Corporation, after finding that Global had not paid overtime to 775 immigrant janitors who often worked seven nights a week cleaning Target stores. [A16.]

European Inquiry Into Acquisition
The European Commission has opened an investigation into the planned acquisition by Microsoft and Time Warner of ContentGuard Holdings, which specializes in software that protects digital material from counterfeiting. [World Business, Section W.]

Harmful to Business Health
Small businesses are coming up with innovative strategies to cope with surging health insurance costs, which many rate as the worst problem they have ever faced. Some are dropping coverage. Others, like Dave Ratner, left, the owner of a retail chain, raised the deductible that his 17 covered employees must pay for hospital stays. Small Business. [C6.]

A Rally on Wall Street as Oil Falls
Stocks rallied as oil prices fell for the fourth consecutive day. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 83.11 points, to close at 10,181.74. The Nasdaq composite index rose 23.83 points, to 1,860.72, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 8.77 points, to 1,104.96. [C7.]

Another Guilty Plea in Enron Case
Mark E. Koenig, the former head of investor relations at Enron, pleaded guilty to one count of aiding and abetting securities fraud. [C7.]

7 Firms to Pay $3.65 Million Fine
Seven brokerage firms have been fined $3.65 million after facing charges that they failed to disclose that they received payments for issuing research on certain companies. [C3.]

A Partisan Twist to Stock Prices
No wonder companies pour money into presidential campaigns. Who wins affects share prices. Hal R. Varian: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,181.74 up 83.11Nasdaq composite -- 1,860.72 up 23.8310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.26% down 0.01The euro -- $1.2093 up 0.0019The dollar -- 110.20 yen up 0.68Graph tracks Toronto-Dominion's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COPYRIGHT LAW (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); COPYRIGHT (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); LITIGATION (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); RETAILERS (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); COUNTERFEITING (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); OVERTIME (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); HOSPITALS (67%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (91%); TARGET CORP (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: TD (TSX) (91%); TD (NYSE) (91%); TGT (NYSE) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (82%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (70%); CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004



554 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: When a Moving Van Could Spark a Neighborhood War

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:

ARC OF JUSTICE
A Saga of Race, Civil Rights, and Murder in the Jazz Age
By Kevin Boyle
415 Pages. Henry Holt. $26.
 Ossian Sweet was 5 years old when he hid in the Florida bushes as a howling white mob set fire to a black teenager. When he was at Howard University's medical school in 1919, he watched gangs of white veterans rampage through the streets of Washington, D.C., beating and shooting blacks. Once he moved to Detroit to practice medicine, he followed the news of frequent lynchings down South, the riots in Tulsa, Okla., and the burning of Rosewood, Fla. And he listened on a hot summer afternoon in 1925 as a colleague described in terrifying detail how, just hours after he had moved into a white neighborhood, a furious mob had ransacked his home and forced him to turn over the deed.
 But when Dr. Sweet and his wife, Gladys, moved into their new house on an all-white street on Detroit's east side a few weeks later and the rocks started hammering the roof and shattering windows, the story took a different turn. At the evening's end, one white man lay dead and another wounded, shot by one of the panicked black men who had come to help Dr. Sweet protect his Garland Avenue home. Although clearly within the legal definition of self-defense, the Sweets and the nine other men there that night were charged with first-degree murder. 
 The case was a significant moment in the early civil rights movement, spurring the creation of the N.A.A.C.P.'s Legal Defense Fund and spearheading a nationwide assault on residential segregation. Still, it had been largely forgotten, probably because it was covered only sporadically by white newspapers at the time.
 As historians round out the story of America's stumbling march toward civil rights, however, such incidents are being retrieved and examined. HarperCollins released Phyllis Vine's ''One Man's Castle,'' about the Sweet case, this spring, and in July Michigan placed a historical marker at the Garland Avenue house. Now Kevin Boyle, a historian at Ohio State University, has published ''Arc of Justice: A Saga of Race, Civil Rights, and Murder in the Jazz Age,'' his account of the incident and trial.
 ''Arc of Justice'' is an impressive work. Deftly weaving together biography, courtroom drama and social history, Mr. Boyle has produced a meticulously researched and engrossing book. Though the prose overheats at times, Mr. Boyle spins a good tale that holds the reader's attention till the very last line. 
 In a story with no shortage of ready-made villains and heroes, Mr. Boyle resists easy typecasting to draw characters in all their flawed humanity. Ossian Sweet was hailed in the black press as a national symbol of the ''new Negro militancy.'' But pride and the hunger for status had as much to do with his decision to buy the Garland Avenue house as bravery or principle. Dr. Sweet was an insecure striver, a sort of ''ebony Babbitt,'' in Mr. Boyle's phrase, driven by his family and his African Methodist Episcopal faith in self-improvement to break into the ''Talented Tenth,'' the black elite that W.E.B. Du Bois said would lead the race. Meanwhile, Clarence Darrow, who joined the defense team three months after the end of the Scopes trial, was as attracted to the national limelight as to the cause of racial justice; the N.A.A.C.P. was as interested in raising money as in getting not-guilty verdicts. 
 The Sweets' ordeal was a powerful example of the racial prejudice surging through Northern cities in the 20's. The uneven and fragmented treatment of blacks hardened after World War I as nearly a million blacks journeyed north and competition for jobs intensified. The Klan grew explosively. Haphazard separation turned into systematic and codified segregation. Respected blacks who had lived in white neighborhoods for years with no trouble now suddenly faced vicious rejection. As one black newspaper put it, if lynching has been the ''peculiar institution of the South,'' then ''forceful residential segregation'' is fast becoming ''the peculiar institution of the North.''
 The N.A.A.C.P.'s executive secretary, James Weldon Johnson, recognized that housing segregation could energize a coalition of middle-class progressives, white ethnic immigrants and blacks. Blacks might be singled out for exclusion today, he argued, but Jews, Catholics and other immigrants would no doubt be tomorrow. Mr. Johnson turned the Sweet case into a national symbol of the fight against restrictive covenants -- legal prohibitions against selling to blacks -- which the N.A.A.C.P. was also challenging in a case before the Supreme Court (a case it lost that year).
 Racial hate alone doesn't explain the long history of discrimination; it has to be given structure and direction. Mr. Boyle nimbly explains the surrounding forces: the web of banking, insurance and real estate interests behind residential segregation; the shifting economic forces during the country's rapid and ruthless industrialization; and the political crosscurrents in Detroit that created an opening for the Klan as well as for the progressive coalition that, years later, would put Franklin D. Roosevelt in the White House.
 Mr. Boyle also touches on the tangled rivalries within the black community -- from the disdain the elite felt toward less successful brethren to the choice among light-skinned blacks as to whether to pass as white. The aptly named Walter White -- the brilliant blond-hair, blue-eyed dynamo -- could have easily passed but identified himself as a black man and devoted his life to the N.A.A.C.P. Still, he secretly believed ''pure Negroes'' were inferior. As one friend put it: ''There's the conflict -- the nine-tenths white loathing the one-tenth black, one-tenth black hating the nine-tenths white.''
 It took two trials before the fabricated account presented by the police and the block's residents was discredited and the defendants were freed.
 In brief strokes, Mr. Boyle offers revealing insights into the lead players' personalities, writing, for example, that after Darrow finished his emotionally wrenching three-and-a-half-hour closing argument, he ''wiped a tear from his eye, quickly scanned the courtroom to find if his beloved Ruby was in attendance,'' and seeing that his wife was absent, slipped over to an attractive activist to ask if she was ''interested in joining him for a very private lunch.''
 This remarkable tale is filled with rich detail and unexpected twists. The man who sold the Sweets the house on Garland Avenue was actually a light-skinned black passing as white. The prosecutor, Robert Toms, ended up joining the Detroit branch of the N.A.A.C.P. and ultimately presided over the prosecution of Nazi war criminals at Nuremberg. 
 Mr. Boyle takes his title from a quote by the 19th-century abolitionist Theodore Parker: ''The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice.'' 
 The justice, as well as the long slog, can be found both in Ossian Sweet's personal story and in the larger fight against housing segregation. Mr. Sweet won the case, but at great cost, ending his life an unhappy, bitter man. And the Detroit where he lived out his days remains the most segregated city in America.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kevin Boyle (Photo by Victoria Getis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); RIOTS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); HISTORY (88%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); ARSON (77%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); FIRES (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%); LITERATURE (65%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); HISTORIC SITES (62%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: Patricia Cohen; Kevin Boyle

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004



555 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Durable Goods Rise as New-Home Sales Fall

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 26 

 BODY:
New-home sales showed signs of buckling under the weight of higher interest rates, and orders for durable goods rose more than expected in July, two government reports showed Wednesday. 
 The Commerce Department said new-home sales in July slid 6.4 percent, to a 1.134 million annual rate, their slowest pace since December. Analysts had expected a 1.29 million pace. 
 Orders for durable goods, which are costly manufactured products expected to last at least three years, gained 1.7 percent in July, their biggest monthly increase since March, the department said. Excluding transportation, orders were up a smaller 0.1 percent. June orders were revised up, to a 1.1 percent advance from a previously reported 0.9 percent jump. 
 The July number was well above Wall Street expectations for a 1 percent overall gain, but economists were concerned that most of the rise was in one sector. 
 In a separate report, the Mortgage Bankers Association said new applications for home loans fell last week. The group's market index, a measure of mortgage activity, declined 6.3 percent last week, to 646.3. 
 ''The decline in new home sales is not alarming because it's still above one million units,'' said Ashraf Laidi, chief currency analyst at MG Financial in New York. ''That's still pretty strong. But if we see the fall extend itself, then one could include the housing sector in this soft patch.'' 
 In the durable goods report, overall transportation-related orders rose 5.6 percent, as orders for civilian aircraft more than doubled from June's tally, offsetting declines in demand for autos and military aircraft. 
 ''Aside from the noise that typically comes from aircraft and defense, the report is consistent with an economy still expanding, but at a slower rate,'' said Vincent Boberski, head of fixed income research at RBC Dain Rauscher in Minneapolis. 
 The Boeing Company said in July that it had reached tentative deals with two dozen customers for its planned 7E7 jets. 
 The manufacturing sector has shown signs of regaining steam after being hit hard by the 2001 recession. From January 2001 through July, about 2.7 million factory jobs have been lost. 
 Recently, however, the job picture has stabilized and output, driven by rising worker productivity, has increased. The Federal Reserve said factories ran at their fastest operating rate in more than three years in July. 
 Other sectors besides aircraft also showed strength. Orders for primary metals were up 5.8 percent, and orders for machinery grew 2.1 percent. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Orders for civilian aircraft more than doubled in July, offsetting declines in demand for military aircraft. (Photo by Larry W. Smith/Getty Images)Graph: ''Durable Goods Orders''Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.July -- +1.7%June -- +1.1May -- -0.9Graph tracks orders for durable goods since Feb. 2003. (Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (95%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); DURABLE GOODS (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (71%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (69%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); FACTORY WORKERS (66%) United States Economy; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); Housing ; Mortgages; Sales

COMPANY: BOEING CO (82%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (83%) Commerce Department; Mortgage Bankers Assn of America

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (82%); BAB (BRU) (82%); BA (NYSE) (82%); RY (TSX) (64%); RY (SWX) (64%); RY (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (82%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (64%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004



556 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; PREPARING FOR THE CONVENTION: DEMONSTRATIONS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Days of Protests, Vigils and Street Theater (Thongs, Too)

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Thomas J. Lueck contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
They promise to carry a thousand coffins in tribute to fallen soldiers, ''ring out'' the Republicans with chiming bells, bare their anti-Bush thong underwear, don masks to pay tribute to the poor and forgotten, chant, drum, sing and of course, march, march and march, with and without police permission.
 Grass-roots and professional organizers alike, mindful of the 15,000 journalists expected in a town already saturated with the news media, have seized on the Republican National Convention next week as a galvanizing moment raw with emotion around 9/11, the Iraq war and the Bush administration's conduct.
 The largest demonstration, with an estimated 250,000 people expected by organizers for United for Peace and Justice, is an antiwar march Sunday up Seventh Avenue past Madison Square Garden. But many other demonstrations will focus on domestic problems like homelessness and poverty, including an unsanctioned march Monday from the United Nations to the Garden, where the convention will be held Monday through Thursday.
 Some take a humorous or tongue-in-cheek approach, including a ''crossing'' of New York Harbor to ''liberate New York from the Bush loyalists'' and Axis of Eve's plan to expose their politicized underwear Wednesday night in Battery Park. Ring Out the Republicans plans to surround ground zero Saturday night and deliver a cacophony of bells. 
 Al Franken, the comedian and radio host, has asked everybody to open their windows Thursday evening as Mr. Bush takes the stage for his nomination acceptance speech and collectively shout something anti-Bush in an outcry reminiscent of the movie ''Network.''
 ''We will be yelling 'Fuhgeddaboudit!''' Mr. Franken said.
 Other demonstrations are more serious and somber, including a vigil featuring a stone memorial in honor of the victims of terrorism. The Christian Defense Coalition, which has held events against abortion and in favor of the public display of the Ten Commandments, plans prayer vigils outside the Garden on Friday and Sunday. An ad-hoc group of artists, actors and others plan to read the names of dead Iraqi civilians every night next week at St. Mark's Church in-the-Bowery.
 The terrorist attacks and the Iraq war -- and a general hostility toward the Republican presence in New York -- form the leitmotif of many demonstrations, including a vigil in Central Park on Saturday by the American Friends Services Committee during which the names of American and Iraqis killed in the war will be read and combat boots displayed.
 In a Brooklyn apartment, Michael de Seve, a film director, and companions have been folding cardboard coffins, with the goal of bringing 1,000 to the large antiwar rally Sunday, as a tribute to soldiers killed and a protest against the Bush administration policy of not allowing photographs of coffins arriving from Iraq.
 ''A lot of New Yorkers are furious at the public relations move of the Republicans coming to a town that I don't think could be a less welcoming place on Earth toward their policies,'' he said.
 There are several traditional mass rallies, at least one every day of the convention. They include the ''Still We Rise'' march Monday highlighting AIDS, housing and welfare; an abortion rights rally Tuesday in Union Square; the National Organization for Women gathering in Central Park and a rally by a coalition of labor groups, both on Wednesday. 
 Artists and Activists United for Peace plans a march and rally in Harlem against the Iraq war and violence in American cities during the day on Thursday, when Mr. Bush accepts the nomination. That night, Answer, an antiwar and antiracism group, plans a rally in the designated protest space near the Garden. A police spokesman, Paul J. Browne, said that the police are girding for spontaneous demonstrations that day, too.
 Police commanders said they could not recall a time when the city has experienced such a succession of demonstrations and rallies. The city has issued permits for 29 rallies to have amplified sound equipment or block streets. They range in size from about 40 people, for a prayer vigil outside the Garden, to 250,000, for Sunday's antiwar march.
 ''There is nothing in recent memory of so many protests on such a compressed schedule,'' Mr. Browne said. He said department officials do not keep official records but believe the largest demonstration in the city ever was an antinuclear march in Central Park in 1982 that drew more than 500,000 by police estimates.
 Experts on social movements said New York was bound to be a focal point for venting of all kinds.
 ''I would think New York enhances the climate for protest activity, because it has always been a city that attracted a diverse viewpoint and perspective on the world,'' said Craig Rimmerman, a political science professor at Hobart and William Smith Colleges in Geneva, N.Y. ''The fact that the Republicans chose New York City in light of what happened on Sept. 11 heightens the politics of it all even more.''
 Some protesters could not wait until the official start of the convention, seeking to draw attention to their cause before all the jockeying next week. The Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign has set up a makeshift encampment in Brooklyn as a protest against homelessness before their march -- without police permission -- on Monday from the United Nations to the Garden.
 Another group, DNC2RNC, has just completed a march from the Democratic National Convention in Boston to New York, where they plan a street theater performance today on foot down Broadway from Columbus Circle to Union Square.
 Simon Sanchez, an organizer of the march of about 100 people, said, ''We are not only addressing the occupation of Iraq and Afghanistan but of the global South in its entirety,'' referring to the third world.
 At a workshop in borrowed space on Houston Street, young people with the environmental group Time's Up! have been assembling and fixing bicycles to be used in a number of demonstrations, including a ''Critical Mass'' ride Friday evening through Manhattan to draw attention to environmental concerns. 
 That ride, and others that could involve large groups of bicyclists, drew a terse warning yesterday from senior police officials, who said in a news release that they would be ''stepping up enforcement actions against bicyclists who block traffic, ignore traffic signals and otherwise violate traffic laws.''
 Brandon Neubauer, a Time's Up! organizer, said the police warning appeared to signal a different tactic than in the past, when the police used scooter patrols to work with and accommodate Critical Mass rides through Manhattan involving up to 1,500 bicyclists. He said the ride on Friday could draw 2,000 riders, and large groups are expected at bicycle events on Sunday and Tuesday. If the police insist on stringent enforcement of traffic laws, ''it will be difficult and could blow up in their faces,'' Mr. Neubauer said.
 He said he expected the riders to stretch for 20 blocks or more, and engage in ''corking,'' a practice in which some riders block auto traffic at intersections to enable the mass of fellow riders to keep moving unimpeded through red lights.
 Next Tuesday, Time's Up! plans to participate in unspecified ''actions'' as part of a day of civil disobedience called for by anarchists and other groups, Mr. Neubauer said.
 Protest organizers revel at the potential bonanza of attention, but given all the events, many may not get much attention.
 ''It would be a crime if we did not take advantage of thousands of reporters being in town to talk about issues pertaining to family,'' said Cheri Honkala, national coordinator for the Poor People's Campaign.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A group called the Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign has set up ''Bushville,'' a tent city in Brooklyn, to protest homelessness. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)Chart: ''A Busy Week''Here are some of the larger protests expected before and during the Republican National Convention.THURSDAY, AUG. 26DNC2RNCThis group, describing itself as a democracy uprising, will march from the South Bronx to Columbus Circle, then down Broadway to Union Square Park, culminating its 258-mile march from Boston, where it protested outside the Democratic National Convention.FRIDAY, AUG. 27IMMIGRANT-WORKER SOLIDARITY DAY OF ACTIONFrom 4 to 10 p.m., immigrant workers and activists will gather at St. Mark's in-the-Bowery church, 131 E. 10th St., for speeches and organizing around immigrant issues.SATURDAY, AUG. 28PLANNED PARENTHOODThe abortion rights group will march across the Brooklyn Bridge at 11 a.m. for a rally at City Hall Park from 1 to 4 p.m.NATIONAL COUNCIL OF ARAB AMERICANS AND THE ANSWER COALITIONThese two groups were denied a permit to hold a protest on the Great Lawn of Central Park, but the groups have said they expect people to show up anyway.SUNDAY, AUG. 29UNITED FOR PEACE AND JUSTICEThe largest protest has a permit to march past Madison Square Garden, starting at 10 a.m. The group had hoped to rally in Central Park, but lost its legal challenge.MONDAY, AUG. 30STILL WE RISE COALITIONThis umbrella organization of New York-based activist groups will march from Union Square at noon to Madison Square Garden for a 2 p.m. rally.TUESDAY, AUG. 31A31 CIVIL DISOBEDIENCEA loose coalition referring to itself as a31 is calling for nonviolent acts of civil disobedience at locations around Manhattan starting at 4 p.m.WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 1NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMENThe organization will hold a protest on the East Meadow of Central Park at 7 p.m.
 organizers expect as many as 50,000.CENTRAL LABOR COUNCILRally and demonstration at 4 p.m. at Eighth Avenue and 30th Street.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); RIOTS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); TERRORISM (75%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); FILM (68%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); FILM DIRECTORS (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (62%); ABORTION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Demonstrations and Riots; Conventions, National (US); United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (59%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: AL FRANKEN (50%) Randal C Archibold

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) New York City; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004



557 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: A Boom Along the Border

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico 

 BODY:
Yoshiro Takemoto walks swiftly through the Panasonic factory, showing off the improvements being made to produce the latest generation of flat-panel digital televisions.
 New automated equipment for wiring electronic circuit boards hums away. Japanese-style work teams collaborate to assemble plasma screens. Mr. Takemoto, the president of Panasonic's North American television manufacturing operations, tracks all his components on intricate charts covering the walls of a conference room.
 After a three-year slump, the plant is hiring again. Retooled at a cost of $10 million, the factory created 400 jobs this year to prepare for Christmas sales. 
 Across Tijuana's vast industrial parks, the export assembly plants known as maquiladoras are thriving, posting giant ''help wanted'' signs. In June, an industry group estimated that the Tijuana plants needed to fill some 15,000 jobs. The government announced recently that it expected $300 million of investments in Tijuana this year that would mean another 15,000 jobs; the boom is being repeated all along the border. 
 It is a sharp change. Three years ago, as American consumer demand shriveled and plants shut or moved to China, maquiladoras lost 280,000 jobs. In Tijuana, more than 60,000 factory jobs evaporated. But this year the tide is turning. Maquiladora exports rose 22.4 percent in June, driving a more general export surge for Mexico. The nation expects economic growth of 4 percent this year, the strongest since 2000.
 ''We have lived through the hard times,'' said Cesar Lopez Ramos, the president of the Tijuana maquiladora association. ''We have made it, so we are less vulnerable.''
 Investment poured into Mexico after the North American Free Trade Agreement took hold in 1994. Companies came to take advantage of cheap labor and duty-free access to the United States. But by 2001, the maquiladora industry was shocked to discover how vulnerable it was to the swings of the American economy and to Asian competition.
 ''The business cycle in the maquila sector is a highly exaggerated version of the U.S. business cycle,'' said Gordon Hanson, a professor of economics at the University of California, San Diego. ''Growth in the maquila sector is a couple of times what it is in U.S. manufacturing.'' 
 But analysts say that is not the only factor in the maquiladora recovery. Stung by Chinese gains, many executives have decided that Mexico must sell efficiency, flexible engineering and quick turnaround time, not just cheap labor. 
 ''Those who stayed have had to restructure to diminish costs and raise competitiveness,'' said Jorge Carrillo, a researcher at the College of the Northern Border in Tijuana.
 ''They had to reduce the work force and do more with less,'' Mr. Carrillo said. ''Factors like technology; innovation and delivery are all critical. Now the ones who stayed are starting to grow.'' 
 The shift is clear at the Panasonic plant, where the move to digital television sets with large flat-panel display screens is driving the recovery. 
 Mr. Takemoto has been on the job for three months with one task from Panasonic's parent company, the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company. ''I was assigned to make this factory able to manufacture flat-panel digital TV's that are competitive globally,'' he said. He summed up his goal simply: ''We will win against China.'' 
 The new sets are revitalizing Tijuana's industry, which has been shipping televisions to the United States since Sony, Sanyo and Panasonic established assembly plants in the 1980's. Samsung followed in 1995. 
 The Mexican government has also helped the maquiladoras by cutting duties on imported Asian components, ending the uncertainty that threatened to drive away many electronics companies. And the state government of Baja California is offering tax breaks. 
 ''Where delivery, proximity and ease of control are important, then Mexico has a fighting chance,'' said Richard Caldwell, president of the Western Maquiladora Trade Association in San Diego.
 Still, Tijuana's recovery is a work in progress, and analysts say the city will take years to get back all the lost jobs. Industries that rely on cheap labor, like garment-making, toy production and furniture assembly, will not return. 
 ''It would be unreal to believe that we will recover all the lost jobs in one year,'' said Juan Morales, who tracks wages and hiring in the city. ''There won't be a double-digit increase.''
 Nevertheless, at some factories the pace is stunning. Saul Garcia Huerta, president of the Mexican division of Kyocera International, held up a cellphone that his year-old Tijuana factory makes for Verizon.
 ''Efficiency in Mexico is higher than in China,'' he said. ''If you assemble this telephone automatically, then the cost of labor stops being important.'' 
 Labor accounts for 7 percent to 10 percent of the phone's cost, he said. 
 Kyocera has hired 1,575 people since April 2003 as it opened its cellphone plant and demand recovered at another plant where it makes ceramic components for electronics. Some 40 percent of the 1,100 workers in the cellphone factory have some technical training, higher than the 20 percent typical in maquiladoras. By October, Mr. Garcia hopes to produce a million phones a month, up from about 600,000.
 Tijuana and other border cities have another advantage. Some of the big items that are manufactured in their new plants -- refrigerators and water heaters, for example -- cost more to ship from Asia. And to avoid holding expensive inventory, American retailers like Home Depot demand that factories supply them continuously, which is easier to do by land. 
 The business in bulky items is a boon to Corrugados de Baja California, a packaging supplier. ''We have the crystal ball,'' said David Ortiz, the company's vice president for sales and marketing. ''If a box plant is slow, then it's not a good sign.'' But his company's sales have risen 30 percent this year.
 The company, a unit of the California-based Orange County Container Corporation, has increased its work force by 40 percent in the last year. The factory has had to raise salaries as much as 40 percent to keep some of the skilled workers it employs to design new packages and make dies for the factory's automated cutting machines. 
 Another niche for Tijuana is in producing medical supplies, which need tight quality control. 
 Tyco's health care division operates a Tijuana maquiladora that makes medical devices like catheters, trays and suction tubing for operating rooms. The plant is regulated and inspected by the United States Food and Drug Administration, and the factory must be able to trace every item in case of a malfunction; because of distance, that is much harder to do for devices made in Asia.
 The Tijuana plant's proximity also helps it work with Tyco's operations in the United States to develop new products, said Victor Montoya, the plant manager. ''It is a lot easier to come to Tijuana versus going to China.''
 Tyco is shutting a plant in Argyle, N.Y., near Albany, and moving some of the work and 300 jobs to Tijuana as the factory handles more automated production. 
 Tijuana's surge is paying off for skilled workers. Factories need to hire more people to operate and repair equipment or design modifications for custom-made orders.
 On a break outside a Tyco electronics plant, Gabriel Diaz discussed his job enthusiastically. Mr. Diaz, 25, a production line leader who started as a maintenance technician six years ago and now makes $130 a week, about five times Mexico's minimum wage, said: ''This is more like a factory. I'm making a career here. I can become a planner or a components buyer.''
 His pregnant wife works in the factory's mail room, and the couple are saving to buy a house. In Tijuana, new developments built for workers like Mr. Diaz offer a two-bedroom house for $25,000, with financing from a government-subsidized mortgage. 
 Not everyone shares his optimism -- especially not lower-skilled workers, many of them single mothers, who take home as little as $60 a week. Carmen Valadez, a longtime labor activist, cites the example of a 34-year-old woman who lost an eye in an industrial accident and struggles to support her three children by working in a maquiladora. ''Her quality of life is low,'' Ms. Valadez said. ''She has no hope. Working full time, you would expect her to be able to get ahead.''
 Still, the steady wages and benefits make maquiladoras a better option than most local employers. 
 On a recent Tuesday, Mayra Amparo Garcia, 37, and Laura Patricia Torres, 20, began at 6 a.m. making the rounds of Tijuana's industrial parks, filling out applications at each plant.
 ''More factories have been opening,'' said Ms. Garcia, whose last job paid $7.35 an hour at a sprinkler factory. ''There is a lot of work,'' she continued. ''I will work wherever there is a job.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: At left, Luz Bernal works on television circuit boards in the Panasonic export assembly plant, or maquiladora, in Tijuana. Below, cellphone components at the Kyocera plant. (Photographs by Alan Decker for The New York Times)(pg. W1)
 Salomon Barragan moves a digital television in the assembly area of Panasonic's plant. (Photo by Alan Decker for The New York Times)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIGITAL TELEVISION (90%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (88%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (73%); TRENDS (72%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); CHRISTMAS (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; International Trade and World Market; Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: PANASONIC CORP (58%)

TICKER: PC (NYSE) (58%); 6752 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%)

PERSON: Elisabeth Malkin

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CHINA (79%) Mexico; Tijuana (Mexico); Mexico

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004



558 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Signs Bills, but Shuns Scandal

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY, Aug. 25 

 BODY:
Gov. James E. McGreevey returned to the public stage on Wednesday, delivering prepared remarks at a bill-signing ceremony here, but made only a glancing reference to his impending departure from office.
 The governor cut off extended applause from a crowd of several hundred, saying: ''Thank you. I've only got 80 days left.'' 
 Mr. McGreevey's public appearance was his first in the 13 days since his startling announcement that he had had an affair with another man and that he would step down Nov. 15. 
 But his brief, guarded performance seemed to confirm what friends and aides say is his plan: to resist pressure to leave office sooner and to avoid discussion about the sex scandal that continues to envelop him.
 Mr. McGreevey took his place among the speakers on the stage at Boardwalk Hall, talked for less than five minutes on two economic development measures he was signing and, before reporters could reach him, slipped behind the blue curtain.
 Mr. McGreevey, who thrived on ribbon-cuttings and school visits in the past, has spent most of the last two weeks in his office in the State House, in meetings on a wide range of government business.
 One of the measures he signed on Wednesday extends a fund for investing casino revenues in economic development projects in Atlantic City; the other phases out a tax on casino customers.
 Efforts to push him from office before Sept. 3, the last point at which a special election could be called for November, have risen and collapsed. 
 And all the while, aides said, Mr. McGreevey has been fiercely focused on, among other things, the creation of the state's new stem-cell research institute, security measures for the Republican National Convention next week, plans to preserve the Highlands region and a task force to study a constitutional convention on overhauling the state's property tax system.
 He has also met regularly with Richard J. Codey, president of the State Senate, who will succeed him unless he leaves office before Sept. 3. 
 Still, Republicans are pressing a campaign to bring more public pressure on the governor to step down in the next week. The Republican State Committee is running radio ads, and introduced new television ads on Wednesday to run on CNN, MSNBC, Fox News Channel and other cable outlets in New Jersey.
 ''It's probably pretty difficult to convince him,'' said Brian Nelson, executive director of the committee. ''He's got his heels dug in. But we know what the right thing to do is.''
 Mr. Nelson said the ads might continue after Sept. 3, if only in an attempt to hasten Mr. Codey's arrival in the governor's office. ''It would be better to have someone who's not absolutely, completely distracted by the problems of his personal life and all the problems his administration has been involved in,'' he said. ''Right now he's in a bunker.'' 
 New Jersey voters are divided on when Mr. McGreevey should resign, according to a Quinnipiac University poll released Wednesday. Of 887 registered voters surveyed Aug. 19 to 23 in the poll, 46 percent said he should leave immediately, and 48 percent said he should wait until Nov. 15. 
 His approval rating has declined only slightly, the poll showed, to 38 percent from 39 percent, since Aug. 4. The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. 
 Micah Rasmussen, the governor's press secretary, said that Mr. McGreevey would make more public appearances but that none were on his schedule. ''He's focused on governing,'' Mr. Rasmussen said. 
 Assemblyman Joseph Cryan, the vice chairman of the Democratic State Committee and a friend of Mr. McGreevey's, said: ''He's committed to finishing what he's going to do. He's got his life to get in order. It's pretty obvious he's got work to do.''
 Asked about the likelihood Mr. McGreevey would agree to leave before Nov. 15, Mr. Cryan replied, ''Zero.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Former Gov. Brendan T. Byrne, left, Gov. James E. McGreevey and Senator William L. Gormley. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (85%); LEGISLATION (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ETHICS (74%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); CASINOS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); SEX SCANDALS (70%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%); RADIO ADVERTISING (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%) Governors (US); Ethics; Homosexuality; Public Opinion; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%)

ORGANIZATION: Quinnipiac University

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%)

PERSON: Laura Mansnerus

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004



559 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Oil Price Off As Data Show Steady Supply Of Gasoline 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Crude oil prices fell yesterday for the fourth consecutive session, influenced by an Energy Department report that the nation's supply of gasoline was unchanged last week. 
 Gasoline inventories were at 205.7 million barrels. 
Fourteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expected a decline of 2.25 million barrels, according to the median of forecasts. Crude supplies fell 1.7 million barrels, to 291.3 million in the week ended Friday, the department said. 
 ''You should have had a two million barrel draw in gasoline at this time of year,'' said Ed Silliere, vice president for risk management at Energy Merchant L.L.C. in New York, which sells wholesale gasoline and heating oil. ''The crude number wasn't big enough to send us higher.'' 
 Crude oil for October delivery fell $1.74, or 3.9 percent, to $43.47 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices touched $43.22, the lowest since Aug. 5. Futures are still 38 percent higher than they were a year ago. 
 Oil for September delivery reached $49.40 a barrel on Friday, the last day the contract traded. It was the highest price since oil began trading in New York in 1983. The October contract has declined 8.6 percent since Thursday. 
 A futures contract is an agreement to buy or sell a commodity at a specified price and date. On the buyer's part, it represents a calculated gamble that the actual price will be higher than the contract price on that date; the seller is counting on a lower price than the contract price.
 ''A lot of speculators were looking for the September contract to breach $50 a barrel, and when that didn't happen, a number of them sold,'' said Peter Beutel, president of Cameron Hanover, an energy consultant, in New Canaan, Conn. 


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since March 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GASOLINE (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); FUTURES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); HEATING OIL (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading; Inventories (Economic Indicator)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%) Energy Department

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004



560 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: One Way to Get Online: Piggyback

BYLINE: By SANDEEP JUNNARKAR

 BODY:
ABOUT to begin graduate school, Radha Patel needed a high-speed Internet connection at her Brooklyn apartment. She turned first to her cable company, only to encounter weeks of technical and bureaucratic hurdles. 
 Then she turned to her neighbors. 
 Ms. Patel, 30, asked the people living below her if they were willing to hook up a wireless router to their cable modem to give her an Internet connection. In return, Ms. Patel agreed to split the monthly cost of subscribing to broadband Internet service. Although the reception limits her to the living room, the value of the arrangement was soon apparent. 
 ''Money became an incentive once I realized the cost of the service,'' said Ms. Patel, who entered a graduate program at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs last fall. ''At first it didn't matter because I was employed, but as a student, it matters. The lower cost really does help each month.''
 As high-speed Internet service evolves from a luxury to an expectation, many cash-strapped students are beginning the school year looking for ways to acquire it at a reduced cost -- or no cost at all. 
 Most universities and colleges in the United States provide free high-speed Internet connections to every part of campus, including dormitories. And after experiencing those speeds, students who move into private housing are often reluctant to settle for dial-up access. But cable or phone companies charge $30 to $60 a month for residential broadband service. 
 So students use various ways to get high-speed access on the sly, the most common of which is simply piggybacking off of an unprotected wireless network in the vicinity, whether in a workplace or in another home. 
 Students have also turned to building cantennas -- antennas made of empty Pringles potato-chip cans or coffee cans -- which allow them to pick up wireless network signals several blocks away that would otherwise be out of range.
 Others go a step further and crack into password-protected networks. ''Students these days are getting pretty technical in their attacks on wireless networks,'' said Rob Carter, 24, a technical supervisor at CityNets.com, an Internet service provider in Hartford, Mich., and a student at Western Michigan University in Kalamazoo. 
 He said students with technical know-how are using a program called AirSnort, which collects packets of information being sent wirelessly and decrypts the security key -- a process that can take one week to several months, depending on the amount of traffic transmitted over the network. With the key in hand, students can slip past an unsuspecting owner's network defenses. 
 Some students share their connection with others who may be out of wireless range using cables. Justin Noack, the owner of CityNets and a recent Western Michigan graduate, said that as a student living off-campus he set up an open wireless router for his roommates. ''Then I ran a cable downstairs to the girls below us,'' he said. ''They didn't have any Internet, so I figured we could share. They cooked some meals for us in return.'' 
 Such an arrangement is not only a convenience. It can also make a political statement -- or invite a legal one. 
 ''That is like guerrilla networking,'' said Nigel Ballard, an advocate of free wireless service based in Portland, Ore. ''It makes perfect economic sense. Someone has bought a huge fat pipe and is probably using only 10 percent of its capacity, and zero percent while away. So why not share it amongst friends and family?''
 Major Internet providers like Verizon and SBC hold the opposite view. Their terms and conditions generally restrict service to one business or household per modem. 
 ''It is not something that we are actively policing, but if it did come to our attention that someone was doing that, we would ask them to stop,'' said Michael Coe, an SBC spokesman.
 Company policies aside, the Internet providers also warn of the security hazards of leaving networks open to strangers. An open or shared network, they say, is an invitation to people with nefarious goals like stealing private information stored on a PC. 
 Some smaller companies, however, differentiate themselves from their national competitors by encouraging open networks. Speakeasy of Seattle, a national provider of digital subscriber line service, offers a plan called Wi-Fi NetShare, which lets a subscriber resell access to neighbors within the wireless network's range. The Electronic Frontier Foundation (www.eff.org) has even compiled a list of Internet providers amenable to wireless sharing.
 But even some free-wireless advocates admit that sharing a connection with too many people can create problems. Anthony Townsend, a professor of communications and urban planning at New York University and a co-founder of NYC Wireless, a nonprofit organization that promotes free wireless access in New York City, suggested that as more people share a network, all the problems that can cripple any cooperative venture will begin to creep in. The problems are likely to be magnified on a network shared by students -- a group notorious for sapping bandwidth with large downloads. 
 Larger service providers can also cut off customers or charge extra fees if monthly transfer limits are exceeded. But like most consumers, students rarely pay attention to their provider's terms of service.
 ''I'm pretty strait-laced and felt bad about doing this,'' Ms. Patel said. ''I know the cable companies probably don't like it, but I was told it was not illegal.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: BROADBAND BEDFELLOWS -- Radha Patel shares her neighbors' Internet access wirelessly because she had trouble getting her own. Some Internet providers frown on sharing. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER NETWORKS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BROADBAND (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (89%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); MODEMS (78%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%) Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: Sandeep Junnarkar

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004



561 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Built for America, Sold (Cheaply) to the World 

BYLINE: By JENNIFER L. SCHENKER

 BODY:
Billions of dollars worth of global telecommunications networks bought or built by United States investors now belong to Chinese, Indian and other non-American companies that have snapped them up for a fraction of their cost.
 The shift in ownership of the networks, which are used to carry much of the world's Internet traffic, comes less than four years after the telecommunications bubble burst. Asian companies in particular have taken advantage of the troubles at American companies, at a time when government monopolies on telecommunications in their countries are waning, access to capital is greater and consumer appetite for bandwidth is growing.
 In retrospect, analysts say, American investors overpaid to set up the global networks and have ended up inadvertently financing them for foreign owners who bought at fire-sale prices when the companies fell on hard times. 
 The United States, with its capital markets and openness to outside investors, eased the shift in control. Foreign companies like Asia Netcom adroitly purchased the remnants of the overbuilt infrastructure at prices that should insulate them from the large losses suffered by the original owners, analysts said.
 ''While the U.S. is still smarting from the telecoms catastrophe, it has awoken to find that it has significantly assisted everyone else, which was really sort of dumb,'' said Farooq Hussain, a former executive at Sprint and MCI who heads Network Conceptions, a consultant group in Chevy Chase, Md.
 Some $30 billion in international telecommunications infrastructure owned by United States companies was sold to foreign-owned entities from 2000 to 2004 for a total of about $4 billion, said Sam Paltridge, an economist at Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris.
 Because it bankrolled the networks, ''Wall Street has inadvertently financed more telecom infrastructure overseas than the World Bank and other international agencies,'' Mr. Paltridge said.
 The change in the balance of ownership may have political consequences. The international pieces of a nation's communications infrastructure, considered strategic and defensive holdings, can be controlled by some who may not share that nation's interests. 
 The new profile of owners has changed the business. The smaller companies that sought for years to be treated as equals by American rivals can offer their customers global end-to-end services, including access to the biggest market -- the United States -- over their own networks or others owned by partners they are better able to negotiate with.
 Although American carriers like Sprint, MCI, AT&T and Level 3 Communications still carry a big percentage of the world's Internet traffic, United States carriers have lost their status as unassailable giants as more traffic is routed around them. Operators like T-Mobile of Germany, NTT of Japan, Telstra of Australia and France Telecom moved into the United States market; Telmex, the Mexican phone company, snapped up AT&T's Latin American network and MCI's share of Embratel in Brazil; and Telmex's largest shareholder, Carlos Slim Helu, took strategic stakes in MCI and Global Crossing.
 A European network valued at $1.7 billion and built by Global TeleSystems, a United States company, was sold to KPNQwest, a joint venture by Qwest and KPN, the Dutch phone operator, in 2002. The network once carried a quarter of Europe's Internet traffic. When KPNQwest dissolved in 2002, Qwest's part of the network, valued at $1.3 billion, was sold to several European carriers, including Interoute in Britain and TeliaSonera, the Scandinavian carrier, for about $50 million.
 And the shift continues. Tyco International's global fiber-optics network, 37,000 miles long and connecting three continents, is up for sale. Among the front-runners for the network are Videsh Sanchar Nigam Ltd. of India, or VSNL, the former government monopoly for telecommunications and Internet traffic, and its domestic rival, Reliance Infocomm.
 A spokeswoman for VSNL, which is now controlled by the Tata Group and known as Tata Indicom, said the company would not comment on reports of its bid for Tyco's network, which was valued at around $3.4 billion at the height of the telecommunications boom and is expected to be sold this autumn for around $200 million.
 Bharti Enterprises in India and Singapore Telecommunications have teamed to build a cable called i2i that promises to offer the largest amount of bandwidth capacity of any undersea fiber-optic cable in the world, said Alan Mauldin, a senior analyst at the TeleGeography research division in Washington of PriMetrica, a telecommunications group.
 ''At a time when everyone is thinking the telecom boom is over and the industry washed up, in India they are just getting ready to go,'' Mr. Mauldin said.
 Other Asian carriers have suddenly become global or regional players by buying United States assets. In December, a subsidiary of the government-controlled Singapore Technologies, paid $250 million to rescue Global Crossing, a bankrupt company based in the United States with a $10 billion global fiber-optic network covering an estimated 20 percent of all undersea capacity leaving the United States.
 The Asian portion of Global Crossing's network was sold to China Netcom, a company that was split off from the China Telecommunications Corporation, China's largest fixed-line carrier, and renamed Asia Netcom.
 The same competitive and pricing pressures that hit the American telecommunications industry are expected to hit the new Indian and Chinese global players. It is an intensely competitive market, but entering at bargain-basement prices should help the new competitors, analysts said.
 Carriers are finding ways to stay alive at the very low prices. ''The days of the monopoly when it was easy to make money, and the days of the bubble when we didn't have to look at costs, are over,'' said Falk von Bornstaedt, a vice president at T-Systems, a division of Deutsche Telekom. ''There is a good chance to be profitable and stay profitable, but it is no longer as easy as it was in the past.''
 When the Internet first began to gain traction, most traffic was routed through the United States. But with network-connecting exchanges in so many countries, that detour is no longer as necessary. 
 Deutsche Telekom, for example, used to route half of its Internet traffic through the United States; now it routes less than a third, Mr. von Bornstaedt said. The company sends more traffic through its home country and sets up partnerships with carriers in other big hubs like China, he said.
 Selling global bandwidth capacity will never be the kind of high-margin business it was when carriers had monopolies, and many believe a shakeout of the remaining companies is coming.
 But, Mr. von Bornstaedt said, the growing number of new applications that require more bandwidth -- like movies -- would ensure a respectable future, at least for a limited number of companies.
 ''The driver is the broadband market,'' he said. ''Broadband is growing so I still see a future in this industry.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers in Singapore clean a big satellite dish belonging to Singapore Telecommunications Ltd., one of many new global networks. (Photo by Jonathan Drake/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (94%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%) Telephones and Telecommunications; International Trade and World Market; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Foreign Investments; Telephones and Telecommunications

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (85%); LEVEL 3 COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (50%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (50%)

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (85%); FTE (NYSE) (85%); FTE (BIT) (85%); LVLT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (50%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (50%)

PERSON: Jennifer L Schenker

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (53%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (91%); FRANCE (86%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (50%) China; India; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004



562 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Drop in Oil Pushes Shares Higher on a Quiet Trading Day

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks rallied in quiet trading yesterday, as oil prices fell for a fourth consecutive day and a pair of government reports gave a mixed picture of the economy. 
 The moderate buying surge was welcome on Wall Street, where investors have been in no hurry to commit new money to stocks. Many have stuck to the sidelines in the face of a long list of worries, including volatile oil prices and persistent fears of terrorism. 
 Contributing to the session's light volume, a number of traders are preparing to take off ahead of the Republican convention in New York next week. 
 ''The fact that oil prices are falling off a bit is certainly helpful,'' said Dave Legeay, director of portfolio management at the McDonald Financial Group. But ''fear that terrorism will disrupt supply is hanging over the market as a whole.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 83.11 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 10,181.74. The Nasdaq composite index rose 23.83 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,860.72. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 8.77 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,104.96. 
 Investors were pleased with the latest report from the Commerce Department, which said orders for costly manufactured goods rose 1.7 percent in July, a sign that the economy may be shaking off the summer doldrums. The best reading in four months for durable goods -- big-ticket items expected to last at least three years -- was bolstered by demand for airplanes, machinery and communications equipment.
 But the department found sales of new homes declined by 6.4 percent in July, a far steeper drop than analysts had expected. 
 Analysts were dubious about the strength of the rally, and whether it would hold. Aside from falling oil prices, there was little incentive for buying. An absence of solidly positive economic news and uncertainty about the outcome of the presidential race continues to weigh heavily on investors.
 ''I think the market is looking for a catalyst, and right now there is just not a lot going on,'' said Barry Berman, managing director for equity trading at Robert W. Baird & Company in Milwaukee. ''People are waiting. They don't want to do anything based on one set of assumptions only to see things turn out the other way.''
 Among the beneficiaries of rising orders for big-ticket goods, Boeing rose 3 percent, or $1.59, to $52.50, on news that Singapore Airlines had ordered 18 long-range Boeing 777-300 jetliners.
 The home builder Toll Brothers lost 34 cents, to close at $43.12, despite reporting a 56 percent increase in profits and raising its forecast for the year based on current demand and the backlog of orders for new luxury homes. Enthusiasm for the company, which surged in early trading, waned on the news about sliding home sales.
 Williams-Sonoma, the retailer of home products, rose 10 percent, up $3.14, to $34.64, after reporting a 53 percent jump in second-quarter earnings per share because of strong sales at Pottery Barn and its outlet stores. The company also raised its revenue estimates and reiterated its income guidance while elevating earnings, revenue and sales forecasts for the year.
 Gap, the clothing retailer, fell 40 cents, to $19.52, after Merrill Lynch downgraded the retailer to neutral from buy on concerns about sluggish sales, which could continue to decline this fall amid pressure on consumer spending, a mediocre product line and the company's decision to focus on young adults instead of back-to-school fashions. The Merrill analyst also lowered earnings estimates for the rest of this year and next.
 In the bond market, demand for an auction of two-year notes was thin. The 10-year Treasury note gained 3/32, to a price of 9929/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dipped to 4.26 percent from 4.27 percent on Tuesday.
 Results of yesterday's auction of two-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
High Price: 99.769
High Yield: 2.494
Low Yield: 2.430
Median Yield: 2.465A
ccepted at low price: 32%
Total applied for: 60,382,235
Accepted: 31,806,540
Noncompetitive: 994,798
Interest set at: 2 3/8

The two-year notes mature Aug. 31, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Graph tracks Two-Year Treasury Notes, high yields in percent, since 2003. (Source by Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); TERRORISM (71%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (70%); AIRCRAFT MFG (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (68%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: ROBERT W BAIRD & CO INC (63%); BOEING CO (54%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); C6L (SGX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004



563 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; SUMMER 2004 GAMES -- SAILING: MEN'S MISTRAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Israelis Revel in First Taste of Gold

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER; Tyler Kepner, in Athens, and Gabby Sobelman Himmel, in Jerusalem, contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: ATHENS, Aug. 25 

 BODY:
The joy flowed down from the medal ceremony stadium along with the people, surrounding Gal Fridman in a sea of happiness and tears, his wide eyes growing wider as he began to absorb what the gold medal hanging around his neck meant to so many.
 The winner of Israel's first-ever Olympic gold medal stood tall in the middle of the maelstrom Wednesday, the smile never leaving his face, even as he sang the words to ''Hatikva,'' the Israeli national anthem, even as a crowd enveloped him when it was over.
 ''I make so many people happy,'' Fridman said later, after the crowd retreated into the night to carry the celebration elsewhere. ''It was fun.'' 
 Fridman won the gold medal in windsurfing Wednesday afternoon, a victory that sent waves of emotion through his country -- joy and pride and great relief. While crowds reveled back in Israel, the Israelis here descended on the little stadium overlooking the sea, the one built just for medal ceremonies.
 Few could have envisioned one like this.
 Until now, Israel's famous Olympic memory was one of tragedy, the 11 athletes and coaches killed at the 1972 Games in Munich after Palestinian terrorists stormed the Olympic Village and kidnapped them.
 For athletes like the 28-year-old Fridman, who were not yet born to experience that horror firsthand, it does not take long to learn.
 ''We make sure they know,'' said Alex Gilady, Israel's representative on the International Olympic Committee.
 Israel's elite athletes make a yearly pilgrimage to a memorial in Tel Aviv honoring the victims. There is another memorial to them in Munich. Fridman said he planned to take the medal to the Tel Aviv memorial, to mix his moment of victory with the memories of those who were murdered.
 ''Just to bring them the honor that they deserve,'' he said.
 Fridman became the bearer of that honor by overtaking the leader in the men's Mistral class, Ricardo Santos of Brazil, after starting the day in second place. When Santos faltered, Fridman sailed to victory, topping Nikolaos Kaklamanakis of Greece and Nick Dempsey of Britain.
 Eight years ago, Fridman came close to this feat, finishing third in the Atlanta Games. He did not qualify for the team that competed in Sydney and briefly retired. But he returned to the sport his family loves -- his name is ''wave'' in Hebrew, and all his siblings' names have nautical meanings -- and began anew his country's quest for its first gold.
 In the water at the end of his race, Fridman threw himself overboard, then wrapped himself in an Israeli flag while friends climbed aboard his sailboard to revel in his moment with him. His brother Yuval, working as a photographer, dived off his boat, leaving his camera behind, and joined them.
 Days earlier, many of them had gone to the medal ceremony of Arik Zeevi, an Israeli who won a bronze medal in judo, and were so moved they began singing ''Hatikva'' on their own.
 ''I thought to myself that next time I want to hear the 'Hatikva' officially played, not only sung by the crowd,'' Yuval Fridman said. ''And for a change let Israelis cry some tears of joy.''
 Gal Fridman took calls from President Moshe Katzav and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, who told him that all of Israel had stopped to watch his race. Celebrants descended on the Fridmans' home in Karkur, where his parents had watched his victory.
 In Athens, as the sun set over the little stadium, Fridman entered for his ceremony, wearing a flag over his shoulders. The crowd of Israelis erupted. They had come from every corner of the Olympics to join in the revelry. The tickets needed to enter became the hottest commodity in Athens as his countrymen scrambled to be here. 
 Inside, the gathering was a mix of Greeks waving flags and chanting, ''Hellas! Hellas!'' as well as a big group of French partying over a medal in another race and Israelis wrapped in the Star of David. For a while, they spawned their own miniwave, urging each other on.
 But once Fridman stepped to the top podium, Israeli pride overwhelmed everything else.
 ''With everything that Israel is going through, politically and economically, this is a big morale boost,'' said Ze'ev Feig, 31, of Tel Aviv. ''Just look at people's eyes.''
 Many of those eyes, particularly the older people's, were filled with tears as the Israeli flag was raised and the anthem played for the first time since the country entered an Olympics in 1952.
 Fridman sang along, never stopped smiling and took it all in. Afterward, the crowd came down from the seats, dozens piling onto the podium and around it, chanting and crying and taking pictures. For people from a country that lives with terrorism day to day, a country that lives with the memory of Munich, this was a moment they cherished.
 ''They want to kill us, but we are here,'' said Zvi Varshaviak, Israel's Olympic committee president. ''And we have a gold medal. This is an important thing.''
 Since 1972, Israelis have competed at the Games under their own extra layer of security, beyond the ring of barbed wire and armed guards that the International Olympic Committee drapes around the entire Games now. At Fridman's medal ceremony, soldiers toting machine guns ringed the waterfront.
 But inside, in the moment of triumph, the guard was let down and the crowd surrounded Fridman.
 Fridman said he hoped his victory would symbolize more than a momentary freedom from fear.
 ''One thing I want is to bring peace to Israel,'' he said. ''I hope the fight will stop, and I show if you want to fight, fight in sport to show who is better, not in different ways.
 ''This is our job as athletes, to show the other side of the Israeli people. We want peace.''
 For a day, they got a reason to celebrate as they never had before.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The windsurfer Gal Fridman, surrounded by joyous fans after winning Israel's first Olympic gold medal ever. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. D1)
 Gal Fridman said he would take his medal to a memorial in Tel Aviv for his countrymen killed in 1972. (Photo by Herbert Knosowski/Associated Press)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WATER SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION (87%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (71%); EXTREME SPORTS (68%); TERRORISM (66%) Olympic Games; Windsurfing ; Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics)

PERSON: Lynn Zinser; Gal Fridman; Nikolaos Kaklamanakis; Nick Dempsey

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (90%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (51%) GEORGIA, USA (51%) ISRAEL (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GREECE (79%); UNITED STATES (51%) Israel; Greece; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004



564 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Dude, Where's My Resale Value?

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
Detroit's big rebates and interest-free financing deals have strengthened car sales for the last three years. But they have also eroded the resale value of many American automotive brands, and that could cost consumers thousands of dollars when they trade in their vehicles. 
 None of the traditional American brands are among the 10 vehicles expected to retain the most value over the next half-decade, according to a new report from Kelley Blue Book, a company that tracks used car values. But American brands dominate the other end of the spectrum, the vehicles expected to lose the most value. 
 ''Car prices were going up through the end of the 80's and into the mid-90's, but what's happened is, with all these rebates and incentives in the last couple years, new-vehicle prices have stabilized and actually gone down in relation to inflation,'' said Charlie Vogelheim, executive editor at Kelley Blue Book. 
 Cheap new cars lead to cheaper used cars. That applies especially to new models with heavy incentives, which can reinforce stereotypes of certain brands being cut-rate. Other factors also tend to lower resale values, as when certain brands are sold into rental car fleets or have unusual designs that do not stand the test of time. 
 Vehicles from five Japanese and five European brands were expected to retain the most value, including Lexus GX 470, made by Toyota, and the BMW 5 Series sedan, according to the Kelley report. These vehicles are forecast to hold about half of their initial value after five years. 
 But vehicles like the Chevrolet Aveo, made by General Motors, and the Mercury Sable from the Ford Motor Company were among the worst. They were forecast to hold about 20 percent of their value. 
 Not all of the top vehicles are expensive luxury cars. Included among the top 10 are BMW's Mini Cooper, which starts at about $20,000, and Nissan's 350Z, which starts below $27,000. And one relatively inexpensive and high-volume luxury vehicle, Ford's Jaguar X-Type, was among those expected to hold the least value. This year, sales of the X-Type, which starts at about $30,000, are down 11 percent through July despite heavy incentive offers. The X-Type can also be rented through Ford's Hertz division. 
 There was a silver lining for Ford. Among foreign models that placed in the top 10, two were brands controlled by Ford: the Mazda RX-8 and the Volvo XC90. 
 Differences in resale values can add up. 
 For instance, a four-wheel-drive 2005 Ford Explorer Limited selling for $40,480 is projected to lose 64 percent of its value in four years, meaning that it would fall to $14,525, according to the Automotive Lease Guide, another company that tracks used car values. By comparison, a 2005 Toyota 4Runner Limited with four-wheel drive, selling for $38,500, is expected to retain 47 percent of its value and resell for about $20,000.
 While domestic automakers have recently made gains in some quality rankings, it takes years for auto brands to win consumers' respect, and that respect is reflected in resale values. 
 ''What really plays into it, more than actual quality, is perceived quality,'' said Matthew Walker, manager of business development for the Automotive Lease Guide. ''You still see large differences in how customers perceive quality from one brand to the next.''
 George Pipas, Ford's top sales analyst, said: ''We absolutely recognize the issue, the concern and the problem.''
 Ford, he added, has been reducing its sales to the rental car market and scaling back its capacity by closing a few plants. It also plans to limit production of new models. 
 ''The process of improving residuals can't be done overnight,'' Mr. Pipas said. ''It relates to image. You can make quality improvements but that doesn't mean the perception is going to change. There are usually lags.''
 The options that buyers choose make a difference, too. Bland colors are best, preferably white, black or silver. Purple is bad, Kelley reports. Customized paint jobs are worse. 
 ''The broadest market appeal is going to support the highest value in the end,'' Mr. Vogelheim said. 
 Among the choices that help improve resale values are opting for larger engines, leather seats and power windows and door locks. If the option is available, a third row of seats can also help, Kelley said. 
 ''Your core functional stuff -- moon roof, leather, power seats -- certain items like that hold resale value better,'' Mr. Walker said. ''Technology might not be as good. On a luxury car, you might get a $400 return on a navigation system that cost you, say, $2,000. Your used car buyer is looking for value and not every frill out there, typically.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Browsing on a Chevrolet dealer's lot in Elk Grove Village, Ill. No traditional American brands are among the 10 vehicles that are expected to retain the most resale value over five years, according to Kelley Blue Book. (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)(pg. C7)
(pg. C1)Chart: ''. . . Or Best Offer''Vehicle resale values have been steadily declining the last few years. American brands dominate the list of vehicles expected to lose the most value in years to come.Chart lists the approximated resale value of vehicles that should retain the most and least of their value over the next five years.(Sources by Automotive Lease Guide
Kelley Blue Book
 Edmunds.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SEDANS (87%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (73%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); RANKINGS (63%); SPORTS CARS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); KELLEY BLUE BOOK CO INC (57%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); 7201 (TSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004



565 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Canadians Confirm Talks On Bank Deal

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Aug. 25 

 BODY:
The Toronto-Dominion Bank confirmed on Wednesday that it was negotiating to buy all or part of the Banknorth Group, which has branches in five New England states and upstate New York.
 The two banks issued identical brief statements that said, ''At this point there can be no assurances that the discussions will lead to an agreement.'' Executives close to the talks, which were reported in newspapers on Wednesday, said Toronto-Dominion was seeking control of Banknorth, based in Portland, Me., in a deal worth more than $3 billion. 
 Shares of Banknorth rose $3.18, or nearly 10 percent, to $34.88. Shares of Toronto-Dominion slumped, falling 1.45 Canadian dollars ($1.11), to 44.55 ($34.11). Its shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange dropped $1.02, or nearly 3 percent, to $34.17, as the takeover proposal was met with some skepticism.
 ''I have a hard time finding a business case for this,'' said Per Mokkelbost, an adjunct professor of banking at the University of Toronto's business school. ''Perhaps this is some sort of strategic move.''
 Thomas Velk, an economist who specializes in banking and cross-border issues at McGill University in Montreal, said: ''If I were T.D., I would have looked for a national player on the U.S. side. But they probably took what they could get.''
 The United States provides Toronto-Dominion, like all of Canada's major banks, with a relatively easy opportunity for growth. In 1998, the Canadian government closed the door on domestic bank mergers, including a proposal that would have combined Toronto-Dominion with the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.
 Canada's banks are also holding substantial capital reserves well beyond the amounts required by regulators, adding to pressure to expand. Toronto-Dominion alone is estimated to have a capital surplus of 2 billion to 2.5 billion Canadian dollars. But Canadian banks that have expanded to the United States have not always found success. Losses in the United States lowered the Royal Bank of Canada's second-quarter retail banking profit to 345 million Canadian dollars from 358 million Canadian dollars ($274 million) despite a strong performance in its home market.
 Toronto-Dominion offers a limited amount of banking in the United States to customers of its discount brokerage arm, TD Waterhouse, through the TD Waterhouse Bank. It has held unsuccessful talks about selling TD Waterhouse to both the E*Trade Financial Corporation and the Charles Schwab Corporation.
 Since 2002, Banknorth has been on its own expansion program. Its 350 branches, which operate under four different brands, are in Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York and Vermont. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: W. Edmund Clark, the chief executive of Toronto-Dominion Bank, has had to look outside Canada for potential merger candidates. (Photo by Jason Scott/Canadian Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); MERGERS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); TAKEOVERS (75%); DIVESTITURES (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); RETAIL BANKING (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (60%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (52%) Banks and Banking; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (93%); CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (91%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (83%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (61%); E TRADE FINANCIAL CORP (61%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Banknorth Group Inc

TICKER: TD (TSX) (93%); TD (NYSE) (93%); CM (TSX) (91%); CM (NYSE) (91%); BK (NYSE) (85%); RY (TSX) (83%); RY (SWX) (83%); RY (NYSE) (83%); SCHW (NYSE) (61%); ETFC (NASDAQ) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (61%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (61%)

PERSON: ED CLARK (73%) Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (78%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (78%); QUEBEC, CANADA (56%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004



566 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Citing Prison Abuse and Iraq 'Failures,' Kerry Demands That Rumsfeld Step Down

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: GREEN BAY, Wis., Aug. 25 

 BODY:
Teeing off two reports detailing abuses at the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq, Senator John Kerry on Wednesday renewed his call for Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld to resign, citing the need for ''accountability that runs through the civilian command.''
 ''It's not just the little person at the bottom who ought to pay the price of responsibility,'' Mr. Kerry told union members at a steamfitters hall in Philadelphia before heading to Green Bay. ''Harry Truman had that sign on the desk and it said, 'The buck stops here.' The buck doesn't stop at the Pentagon. And in this case it doesn't just stop with any military personnel.'' 
 Speaking on the same day that the Army announced that 35 military intelligence soldiers had been implicated in prisoner abuse at Abu Ghraib, Mr. Kerry, the Democratic presidential nominee, also called on President Bush to appoint another commission to investigate the scandal, focused on the chain of command and the Geneva Conventions. 
 But he did not address the substance of a separate report by a four-member panel headed by James R. Schlesinger, a former defense secretary, except to note that it said Mr. Rumsfeld had set the climate enabling the prison abuse. Instead, Mr. Kerry made a broader case for the secretary's ouster ''for failure to do what he should have done'' prosecuting the Iraq war. 
 ''The failures of judgment, the miscalculations, the failures of command, the miscalculation about the numbers of troops needed to win the peace, the miscalculation about not having a plan to win the peace, the miscalculation of sending troops over there without adequate armor, with Humvees that aren't armored,'' Mr. Kerry clicked off his litany of complaints. ''The overextension of the National Guard and the overextension of our reserves, the redeployments of people, the lack of responsibility for what has been one of the most severe miscalculations in any deployment of American forces in American history, I believe lands in the civilian responsibility.''
 Mr. Rumsfeld, along with Vice President Dick Cheney and Attorney General John Ashcroft, is a frequent foil for Democratic audiences. Mr. Kerry has been greeted on the campaign trail several times by hand-lettered signs advocating a ''No CARB diet: No Cheney, No Ashcroft, No Rumsfeld, No Bush.''
 Arguing that Mr. Kerry's resignation recommendation had been recycled from last year, Steve Schmidt, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, called his seizing on the Abu Ghraib reports ''just the latest example of John Kerry's willingness to say whatever he believes will benefit him politically.''
 The comments on the Abu Ghraib scandal came before a friendly labor audience at a forum ostensibly devoted to economic issues, where Mr. Kerry embraced the endorsement of 10 Nobel laureates in economics, mostly well-known liberals. It was his 26th day campaigning in the critical electoral battleground of Pennsylvania since securing the nomination in March. He later headed to Green Bay, where he fell on the ground to retrieve a fumble while running a few plays with the West High School football squad.
 At a fund-raiser here on Tuesday night, Mr. Kerry fired back at critics of his war record by saying he was proud of his military medals and of his antiwar activity upon returning home, but Mr. Kerry did not mention Vietnam or the veterans group questioning his war record on Wednesday. His supporters did.
 A man in the audience in Philadelphia received a standing ovation for saying, ''I think it's shameful, the attacks on your service.'' And here in Green Bay, Bob Schmitz, 81, who said he was a veteran of five World War II campaigns, praised Mr. Kerry's decorated combat tours, saying: ''I do not have a Purple Heart, I don't have a Silver Star, I don't have a Bronze Star. I know what it takes to get those awards, and I think it's a damn shame with Bush and his other two draft-dodging buddies cutting the feet out from under this wonderful man.''
 At the Philadelphia event, Mr. Kerry poked fun at the president, whose campaign has been accused of only inviting volunteers to events and vetting their questions, by asking the audience whether anyone had to sign a loyalty oath or had been fed questions. The crowd hissed, ''No!'' but the steady stream of softballs that followed could have come from a pitching machine.
 There was the woman laid off after 19 years because of outsourcing who inquired about importing drugs from Canada, a staple of the Kerry health-care plan. 
 Then there was the man from Montgomery County who sounded as if he were parroting Mr. Kerry's stump speech and then asked, ''What can we do for you?''
 ''Ninety-eight days,'' said Mr. Kerry. ''Every day, every single one of you can win votes.''
 Reminded afterward that just 69 days remain until the election, an aide joked that Mr. Kerry was preparing for a possible recount.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry fell yesterday while retrieving a fumble at a practice session with the West High School Wildcats in Green Bay, Wis. (Photo by Hector Mata/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); HISTORY (64%); TERRORISM (59%) Prisoners of War; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Geneva Conventions; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Jodi Wilgoren; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (88%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Abu Ghraib (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004



567 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Need another risk to weigh? In a presidential year, it's red stocks vs. blue stocks.

BYLINE: By Hal R. Varian. 
Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
WALL STREET analysts follow presidential campaigns, and for good reason. The future revenues of pharmaceutical companies, energy companies, military contractors and other industries depend in part on which party is in power.
 Every presidential election year, analysts publish lists of stocks they think will increase in value if one party or the other wins.
 As the fortunes of the candidates ebb and flow, the stocks of such politically sensitive companies should respond in a predictable way: industries that are expected to do well if President Bush wins should increase in value when his likelihood of winning goes up, and industries that would probably prosper under John Kerry should increase when sentiment swings in his favor. 
 This platform capitalization theory was recently examined by the Brown University economist Brian G. Knight in a National Bureau of Economic Research working paper, ''Are Policy Platforms Capitalized Into Equity Prices?''
 Mr. Knight examined the 2000 presidential race using financial analysts' reports that identified companies likely to do well under an administration headed by George W. Bush or one headed by Al Gore. There were 41 companies on the Bush list and 29 on the Gore list.
 Analysts expected that pharmaceuticals, defense, traditional energy and tobacco would do better under Mr. Bush. Alternative energy and Microsoft competitors were expected to do better under Mr. Gore. The 70 companies in Mr. Knight's sample represented about $3 trillion in stock market value, or about a fifth of the total value in the Wilshire 5000.
 Mr. Knight calculated the daily excess returns on each of the 70 stocks over the course of the campaign. (Excess return is the actual return adjusted for the overall movements of the market on a given day.)
 As a proxy for the fluctuating probability of winning, Mr. Knight drew on data from the Iowa Electronic Markets. The online markets, accessible at www.biz.uiowa.edu/iem, offer participants a chance to bet on the outcome of the election.
 One security they offered paid $1 if Mr. Bush received more popular votes than Mr. Gore, and nothing otherwise. Because the security could be bought or sold at any time, its current market value represented, in some sense, the market's expectations for a Bush victory.
 The platform capitalization theory presumed that the day-to-day changes in Mr. Bush's and Mr. Gore's chance of winning would be reflected in the stock market value of the companies expected to prosper under the two administrations.
 Indeed, that was exactly what Mr. Knight found. According to his estimates, Gore-favored companies were worth 6 percent less in a Bush administration, while Bush-favored companies were worth 3 percent more, adding up to a 9 percent difference. According to Mr. Knight, ''Bush's victory over Gore transferred over $100 billion in market capitalization from the 29 Gore-favored firms to the 41 Bush-favored firms.''
 Looking at particular sectors, Mr. Knight found that alternative energy companies were worth 16 percent less under Mr. Bush, while tobacco companies were worth 13 percent more.
 Given the amount of money potentially at stake in election outcomes, it is not surprising that companies choose to contribute to campaigns. Such contributions could be an attempt to influence election outcomes, or they could be an effort to influence campaign platforms.
 Either way, one would expect contributions to be correlated with expected value: companies that expected to do well if Mr. Gore was elected would be expected to contribute more to the Democrats, and those that expected to do well if Mr. Bush was elected would probably contribute more to Republicans.
 So the amount of contributions to a party should reflect, to some degree, the anticipated value of that party ending up in power. Indeed, Mr. Knight found that the contributions were correlated with the stock market returns as the theory predicted: the companies that were expected to do well under Mr. Bush contributed more, proportionally, to the Republican Party than to the Democratic Party.
 Finally, Mr. Knight looked at the Florida recount. During this six-week period, the election outcome was uncertain. Comparing returns over this period, he found that the return on Bush-favored companies exceeded the return on Gore-favored concerns by about 4 percent -- a difference, the author notes, that is statistically insignificant. It is possible that stock prices already reflected the likelihood of a Bush victory, and thus did not respond strongly to the outcome of the recount.
 But enough of the past. What about the current race?
 An unscientific search of the Web suggests that several of the same industries that played a role in Mr. Knight's study are also relevant in the 2004 election: tobacco, pharmaceuticals, defense and energy. The expected impact on the sectors of a Democratic victory in 2004 seems to be about the same as it was in 2000. But the Microsoft antitrust case was prominent in the news in 2000; technology stocks do not seem to be quite as important this time around. 
 The Iowa markets are offering Bush and Kerry securities this year, and the current odds are about even. Other online futures markets, like Tradesports.com, offer similar assessments. Mr. Knight is following the stock market and the campaign closely, but so far has not found much variation in the election forecasts from the online markets, making it difficult to relate changes in election probabilities to stock values.
 Perhaps it is unpleasant to some to be reminded of how important a role money plays in politics. Yet how could it be otherwise? With billions of dollars in the balance, people will try to find ways to protect or enhance their assets. Over all, being able to hedge political risk on the stock market has to be a good thing. From a shareholder's viewpoint, political risk is like any other risk that might affect portfolio values, and being able to lay off some of that risk in the market is advantageous.
 Corporate spending to influence platforms or outcomes is another matter. That it will happen is inevitable; the challenge is to keep it under control. In politics, money may talk, but it shouldn't shout.


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Kerry's energy policies bode well for renewable fuels, while President Bush's environmental policies favor traditional energy. (Photo by Brendan McDermid/European Pressphoto Agency)
 (Photo by J. Scott Applewhite/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BONDS (79%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) Stocks and Bonds; Election Issues ; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (56%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); AL GORE (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Hal R Varian

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004



568 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Regulator Finds Problems At Big 4 Accounting Firms
The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which was established by Congress in 2002 as the regulatory body for the audit industry, said that its inspections of the Big Four accounting firms had found ''significant audit and accounting issues'' in work done by all four firms. The board reviewed the details of 16 audits in 2003 at each firm.
 It added that it had found problems in the quality control systems at each firm, but that it retained confidence in them. [Page C2.]

Krispy Kreme Results Disappoint
Krispy Kreme Doughnuts stunned investors with disappointing earnings for the second consecutive quarter, sending its shares down by more than 10 percent. Krispy Kreme, which wowed Wall Street with a hot growth story when it went public in April 2000, has lost more than two-thirds of its value since it peaked a year ago. The company scaled back revenue forecasts for the remainder of the year, and withdrew its profit forecast. [C3.]

Toronto-Dominion Announces Deal
Toronto-Dominion announced plans to acquire 51 percent of the Banknorth Group for $3.8 billion, thus gaining entrance into the United States consumer banking market through Banknorth's 350 branches. [C3.]

Vivendi and France Have Tax Deal
After eight months of negotiations, Vivendi Universal sealed a deal with the French government that would reduce its tax bill by more than $4.6 billion over the next several years in exchange for a pledge to create hundreds of jobs in France. [World Business, Section W.]

Report Shows Rising Poverty Rate
The ranks of the poor and those without health insurance grew in 2003 for the third consecutive year, in a sign of the lingering pain being caused by the slump in the job markets. [A1.]

New Bank Hiring Rules Suggested
A leading banking regulator recommended tighter policies governing how and when federal examiners can seek employment from banks they once supervised. [C5.]

Glaxo to Post Clinical Trial Results
In a settlement with the New York State attorney general, GlaxoSmithKline agreed to post on its Web site the results of all clinical trials involving its drugs. [C4.]

Ahold Chairman Stepping Down
Karel Vuursteen, left, the 63-year-old chairman of Royal Ahold, is stepping down for health reasons. The company also said that its slumping American supermarkets unit contributed to a lower-than-expected profit of just 32 million euros, or $38.7 million. Analysts had expected Ahold to earn around 80 million euros, a target it fell short of after operating income at its United States supermarket chains like Stop & Shop and Giant-Landover fell nearly 30 percent, to $253 million, from a year earlier. [World Business, Section W.]

Firms Settle Regulatory Charges
Deutsche Bank Securities and Thomas Weisel agreed to pay $100 million to settle charges involving conflicts of interest. [C5.]

Nasdaq and Dow Slightly Lower
A downgrading of several semiconductor companies pressured technology shares, which sent the Nasdaq composite index down 7.80 points, to 1,852.92. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 8.33 points, to 10,173.41, an. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.13 points, to 1,105.09. [C5.]

The number of Americans filing for initial unemployment compensation rose 10,000, to 343,000, last week, more than expected, caused in part by Hurricane Charley. [C3.]

Citigroup Sued Over Enron
Citigroup was sued by a group of institutional investors that contend the bank defrauded them in selling $2.4 billion of notes linked to the creditworthiness of Enron. [C3.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,173.41 down 8.33Nasdaq composite -- 1,852.92 down 7.8010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.21% down 0.05The euro -- $1.2115 up 0.0022The dollar -- 109.33 yen down 0.87Graph tracks the daily closing price of Krispy Kreme shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (91%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); QUALITY CONTROL (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); WEB SITES (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); POVERTY RATES (69%); CLINICAL TRIALS (66%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (66%); RETAIL BANKING (66%); BANKING LAW (66%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); JOB CREATION (64%); POOR POPULATION (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE AHOLD NV (ROYAL AHOLD) (84%); VIVENDI (82%); KRISPY KREME DOUGHNUTS INC (57%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (52%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (50%)

TICKER: AHOE (FRA) (84%); AH (BIT) (84%); AH (AMS) (84%); VIV (PAR) (82%); VIV (BIT) (82%); KKD (NYSE) (57%); GSK (NYSE) (52%); GSK (LSE) (52%); BIOC (EGX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (84%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (57%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (57%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



569 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: The Narcissist And His Lover

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
Remove self-love from love, wrote the 18th-century French aphorist and revolutionary Chamfort, and not much would be left. Remove self-love and self-serving outrage from the already notorious ''The Brown Bunny,'' a minor scandal of a movie that opens today in New York and Los Angeles, and not much would be left, either. Which isn't to say that this artful road movie from the director, narcissist nonpareil and most excellent huckster Vincent Gallo should be avoided, especially if you like your art-house exercises tarted up with some good old-fashioned, hotel-room smut. 
 To dispatch with the obvious: as movie newshounds and numerous Los Angeles drivers know, ''The Brown Bunny'' features a sexual act between the director and his co-star Chloe Sevigny that's generally found in bedrooms and wherever else people have sex as well as in those disposable entertainments shelved in the back room of your local video store. Earlier this month, a blurred image from the scene in question, branded with a lurid (and spurious) XXX rating, loomed in a billboard above Los Angeles's Sunset Boulevard, causing a teapot media tempest during an otherwise slow movie-news month. The sign was taken down after several days, but its provocation lingers, principally because a budget-conscious movie like ''The Brown Bunny'' needs manufactured controversy as much as the entertainment media does. 
 ''The Brown Bunny's'' path to public ignominy began in earnest at the 2003 Cannes Film Festival, where it received a hostile, noisily rude reception from the press at its premiere. Merit aside, the larger trouble with that fateful screening wasn't Mr. Gallo's artistry or his ego, both in evidence and subjected to attack, but context. Shown in competition rather than in one of the festival's less prestigious, less visible programs, ''The Brown Bunny'' was savaged by a media all too happy to give the dregs of Hollywood and official art-house cinema a free pass. The hullabaloo did furnish the bored press comic relief, always a good thing during a lackluster festival. And now, many months later, it has inspired Mr. Gallo to claim that the much-derided version presented at Cannes was, in actuality, unfinished. 
 Whatever. 
 Neither an atrocity nor a revelation, ''The Brown Bunny'' is a very watchable, often beautiful-looking attempt by Mr. Gallo to reproduce the kind of loosely structured mood pieces that found American and select foreign-language cinemas of the 1960's and 70's often at their most adventurous, with Monte Hellman's 1971 ''Two-Lane Blacktop'' the most obvious touchstone. Like Mr. Hellman's laid-back masterpiece, ''The Brown Bunny'' begins with a race (Mr. Hellman's driver wins, Mr. Gallo's motorcyclist loses) and quickly tries for an air of cool detachment. But while Mr. Hellman's directing remains consistently detached no matter how hot the cars or emotional entanglements, Mr. Gallo is happy to lavish his lead performer with love, perhaps because in addition to serving as the director, writer, producer, editor and director of photography on ''The Brown Bunny,'' Mr. Gallo is also the film's star. 
 Mr. Gallo plays Bud Clay, a motorcycle racer (and the title's symbolic bunny) on his way back home to Los Angeles from a New Hampshire meet. As Bud racks up miles, he stares moodily at the road, visits a childhood haunt, eats a lonely meal, sleeps a lonely motel sleep, takes his motorcycle for a spin and exchanges small talk with a few women he meets along the way.
 The women, all of whom have the soft, bruised look of chronic disappointment, are Violet, Rose (played by nonprofessionals, Anna Vareschi and Elizabeth Blake) and Lilly (the former top model and 1970's pinup Cheryl Tiegs). Eventually, Bud hits Los Angeles, where he checks into a hotel and where yet another flower of femininity, Ms. Sevigny's Daisy, gives the film its back story and furnishes what the porn industry calls, in rather more direct language, its economic raison d'etre. 
 Despite its sensationalistic deus ex machina there isn't really more to ''The Brown Bunny.'' Unlike ''Two-Lane Blacktop,'' which wrests meaning equally from its laconic style and an encounter between three young wanderers and a middle-aged square, Mr. Gallo's film doesn't build to anything significant. The barely there story meanders pleasantly enough, but the denouement dissolves in a maudlin puddle of tears. More problematically, much as Sofia Coppola did in ''Lost in Translation,'' Mr. Gallo seems to have discovered someone else's visual style and applied it, complete with swirling grain and documentary vibe, to his narrative. Mr. Gallo doesn't have the technical support Ms. Coppola enjoyed and needless to say he's no Bill Murray. But like Ms. Coppola, he comes across less like an original than a very smart art student with a jones for cinema's past. 
 Asian and European directors periodically dabble in hard-core imagery, but few feature filmmakers in this country have gone that route for understandable commercial reasons. Ms. Sevigny solved one of Mr. Gallo's problems when she agreed to have actual sex with him on camera. (He solved some of his other problems by cutting the film's unintentional laughs after Cannes.) Even in the age of girls gone wild it's genuinely startling to see a name actress throw caution and perhaps her career to the wind. But give the woman credit. Actresses have been asked and even bullied into performing similar acts for filmmakers since the movies began, usually behind closed doors. Ms. Sevigny isn't hiding behind anyone's desk. She says her lines with feeling and puts her iconoclasm right out there where everyone can see it; she may be nuts, but she's also unforgettable.
 Although ''The Brown Bunny'' is not rated, no one under 18 will be admitted.

THE BROWN BUNNY

Written, directed, photographed, edited and produced by Vincent Gallo; released by Wellspring. At the Landmark's Sunshine Cinema, 139-143 East Houston Street, East Village. Running time: 92 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Vincent Gallo (Bud Clay), Chloe Sevigny (Daisy), Cheryl Tiegs (Lilly), Elizabeth Blake (Rose), Anna Vareschi (Violet) and Mary Morasky (Mrs. Lemon).


GRAPHIC: Photos: From Vincent Gallo's ''Brown Bunny,'' a tale of a motorcycle racer who moodily makes his way back to Los Angeles from a loss in New Hampshire. (Photo by Agence France-Presse)(pg. E19)
 Encounter: Vincent Gallo and Chloe Sevigny in ''The Brown Bunny,'' directed by Mr. Gallo. (Photo by Cannes Film Festival)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); FESTIVALS (86%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: Manohla Dargis; Vincent Gallo; Chloe Sevigny

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



570 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE ECONOMY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: More Americans Were Uninsured And Poor in 2003, Census Finds

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 26 

 BODY:
The ranks of the poor and those without health insurance grew in 2003 for the third straight year, the government reported on Thursday, in a sign of the lingering pain being caused by a long slump in the job markets. 
 Those trends, spelled out by the United States Census Bureau, signaled a clear shift in the way the 2001 recession and its aftermath have spread across the country. The economy's troubles, which first affected high-income families even more than the middle class and poor, have recently hurt families at the bottom and in the middle significantly more than those at the top.
 Median household income rose at about the same rate as inflation last year after three years of relative declines, according to the report. But the disparity in incomes between the rich and poor grew after having fallen in 2002. Pay did not keep pace with inflation in the South, already the nation's poorest region, in cities, or among immigrants. And the wage gap between men and women widened for the first time in four years. 
 Poverty rose most sharply among single-parent families last year. Health-insurance coverage fell only for families with annual income of less than $75,000. [Page C1.]
 On the campaign trail, Mr. Bush has been saying the country has overcome the recession and a stock market decline in part because of his tax cuts. Democrats Thursday accused the Bush administration of trying to the bury the new numbers by releasing them all at once in late August, rather than reporting the poverty and health-insurance data on separate days in September, as they had in recent years. 
 ''They're trying to lump, dump and run,'' Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of New York, said.
 Census officials said that politics played no role in the change and that the two sets of data had also been released simultaneously in the mid-1990's. The bureau published the numbers in August to coincide with the release of local economic numbers it compiles, officials said.
 ''Normally we're not criticized for bringing out data earlier,'' Charles Louis Kincannon, the director of the Census Bureau, said.
 The national poverty rate rose to 12.5 percent last year, from 12.1 percent in 2002. After dropping rapidly in a long economic boom and a government war on poverty in the 1960's, from more than 22 percent in 1960, the rate has changed relatively little over the last four decades. It was slightly higher in 2003 than in 1969. A family of two adults and two children with an income of less than $18,660 was considered poor last year.
 ''We have had a generation with basically no progress against poverty,'' said Sheldon Danziger, a professor of public policy at the University of Michigan. ''The economic growth is not trickling down to the poor.''
 Depending on their political beliefs, economists tend to place varying portions of blame for this on a rise in single-parent families, a withering of good jobs for people without college degrees and a shift away from anti-poverty programs by the federal government. 
 The number of uninsured Americans rose last year largely because fewer companies were providing health benefits to their workers than in the past, the Census Bureau reported. Almost 16 percent of people did not have health insurance last year, up from 14.2 percent in 2000.
 Median household income declined slightly last year, by $63 to $43,318, but census officials said the change was not statistically significant. Since peaking in 1999 at the equivalent of $44,922 in 2003 with inflation taken into account, median household income has fallen more than $1,600, or 3.6 percent, though it remained higher last year than at any point before the late 1990's. The candidates for president offered sharply different views of the economy on Thursday. Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential nominee, argued that the report offered new proof that the Bush administration had put the interests of wealthy families ahead those of most Americans. 
 ''The census figures are facts,'' Mr. Kerry said, while campaigning at Anoka Technical College in a suburb of Minneapolis. ''They're not political diatribe. They're facts, statistics, and they tell a story when you add them all up.'' 
 Mr. Bush, in Farmington, N.M., said: ''Because we acted, our economy since last summer has grown at a rate as fast as any in nearly 20 years. Since last August, we've added about 1.5 million new jobs.'' 
 Terry Holt, a spokesman for President's Bush campaign, said that the census numbers were outdated because they covered only 2003. ''Absent from these numbers is the strong economic growth we've seen in the last 11 months,'' Mr. Holt said.
 Mr. Bush has helped the economy recover from recession by cutting taxes, Mr. Holt added, and has attacked poverty by signing a tax cut that eliminated income taxes for five million low-income people.
 Unlike most economic downturns, the one that began in early 2001 was something of an equal-opportunity recession, hurting high-income and low-income families alike. The bursting of the stock market bubble, the collapse of many technology ventures and the decline of the manufacturing sector all led to the elimination of many good-paying jobs.
 But as the economy continues its uneven recovery, growing but adding many fewer jobs than is typical, families in the lower part of the spectrum have begun to lose ground again, as they did in much of the 1970's, 80's and 90's.
 Pay fell last year for households in rural areas and in cities, where income is less than the national average, by a greater percentage than it did for those in suburbs, the bureau said. After reaching an all-time high in 2002, the earnings of full-time female workers relative to their male counterparts fell slightly last year, to 75.5 percent. Income also dropped more for Hispanics than for whites, though it remained essentially unchanged for black households.
 Over all, the highest-earning fifth of households took home 49.8 percent of the nation's income last year, up from the 49.7 percent in 2002 and 44.7 percent in 1983. Those figures exaggerate income inequality somewhat, however, because they do not include taxes and because wealthy households are larger on average than poor ones. 
 ''There's a very large transfer of resources to poor people that is not captured in these poverty numbers,'' said Robert Rector, a senior research fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a research group. Whatever the true level of inequality, though, it grew last year, with the greatest increases in poverty coming among some of the nation's poorest groups. The poverty rate among households headed by a single woman rose to 28 percent, from 26.5 percent in 2002. 
 Of families with children under 6, 19.8 percent, or 4.6 million, were considered poor last year, up from 18.5 percent in the previous year.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Whites Aren't Texas Majority
 HOUSTON, Aug. 26 (AP) -- Non-Hispanic whites are no longer the majority in Texas for the first time since the 1800's, according to a Census Bureau survey.
 The survey said whites stopped being the majority as of last year. Most of Texas' population expansion since 2000 has come from births and international immigration, both sources of predominantly Hispanic growth. 
 Estimates show that the state was 49.5 percent white in 2003, down 1.5 percentage points from 2002 but still a large plurality.


GRAPHIC: Chart: Graphs track percent of Americans below the poverty line and without health insurance from 1987-2003.(Source by Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); POVERTY RATES (89%); INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); PARENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); GENDER EQUALITY (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BONDS (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); EQUAL PAY (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); TAX LAW (64%); SINGLE PARENTS (52%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) United States Economy; Income; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Recession and Depression; Taxation; United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%) Census Bureau

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: CAROLYN MALONEY (50%) David Leonhardt; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



571 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; SUMMER 2004 GAMES -- BEIJING GAMES: LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Point Made in Athens, China Looks Toward Beijing in '08

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

DATELINE: ATHENS, Aug. 26 

 BODY:
It was easy to see that Lithuania was a better basketball team than China in the Olympic quarterfinals on Thursday, but it was also easy to fill in the blanks and the seats with future Olympics in mind: to imagine Yao Ming with a better, stronger supporting cast and to imagine the stands that were dotted with Chinese flags here becoming a sea of national colors in Beijing in four years.
 The face of the Olympics is changing, even before Gianna Angelopoulos-Daskalaki and the rest of the Athens organizers pass the torch to the Chinese delegation at Sunday's closing ceremony.
 Deep into the second week, China is running a very close second to the United States in the gold-medal count. The Chinese have 25; the Americans have 28. ''That's very surprising for me,'' said Yao, China's towering center, as he answered questions in his improving English after Lithuania's 95-75 victory. 
 There will be no closing the medal gap in basketball, as China's defeat eliminated it from medal contention, while the United States and the dangling remnants of its Dream Team aura advanced to the semifinals with a 102-94 victory over Spain.
 But what happened on Thursday in the Olympic Indoor Hall hardly dulled the shine from China's overall performance here or from its prospects, as its government continues to pour money into elite sports and its 1.2 billion inhabitants inch their way toward affluence and leisure time. 
 ''As we say in China, the beans are out of the bottle,'' Yao said.
 So what if it doesn't quite translate. The concept is clear, and it may be time for the outside sports-obsessed world to start learning a lot more phrases in Chinese. Del Harris, the American coach of the Chinese basketball team, has certainly learned a bit in his three months in charge: about 1,000 Mandarin words in all, by his estimation. 
 ''People at first said I was trying to bring the N.B.A. to China,'' said Harris, a silver-haired assistant with the Dallas Mavericks who has also coached Puerto Rico and Canada. ''Not at all; that doesn't work. I'm trying to teach them what a high level of international basketball is and try to get them out of Asian basketball culture and into the international basketball culture.''
 International companies have been eagerly riding the learning curve for years, investing in China and counting on future profits. Athletes from other countries have been dipping their toes in, too. The soccer rivals Manchester United and Real Madrid have made exhibition tours to China; the N.B.A. will stage preseason games there in October involving Yao and his Houston Rockets; and the men's tennis tour will move its year-end championships to Shanghai for three years at least, beginning in 2005.
 But it isn't only about what China will do for Western sports entities; it's about how China will change the way the West experiences international sports. The next Summer Olympics -- China's first opportunity to play host to a global sporting event -- are only the most obvious example. But it is easy to imagine that, as China's economy expands along with its athletic ambitions, there will be an increasing Chinese flavor at major international events around the world.
 With its huge diaspora, China already had a strong presence here, and when Zhang Ning won her gold medal in women's badminton, many of the young people shouting for her and holding up banners were young Chinese studying in Greece.
 That trend and others are only going to accelerate. At the Barcelona Games in 1992, Chinese reporters were in the minority at news conferences with Chinese medal winners. On Thursday, as Harris answered questions, a majority of reporters in the room were from China.
 Yao's N.B.A. debut in 2002 was reportedly viewed by 287 million Chinese households, and a survey last year, financed in part by an international shoe company, found that 93 percent of Chinese men ages 13 to 25 claim to have an interest in basketball and watch N.B.A. games on television.
 There have been other sea changes, including the Chinese government's adoption of a hard-line approach to the use of performance-enhancing drugs.
 In 1993, when the world swimming championships were staged in Rome, there was resentment and suspicion on the pool deck as the Chinese women dominated the meet with a team featuring multiple medalists with massive shoulders, deep voices and heavy acne.
 The doubts turned out to be well founded as several Chinese swimmers later tested positive for banned substances. But Chinese authorities shifted priorities, organizing their own testing to weed out cheaters and creating real penalties.
 Their reasons were not all selfless, considering the government's desire to stage the Summer Games in 2008. With that vote looming, the Chinese team withdrew 27 athletes with dubious test results from its Olympic roster before the Sydney Games in 2000.
 But even after the International Olympic Committee voted in 2001 in favor of Beijing, the Chinese continued to fight doping. China, like France, now has an anti-doping law, and its accredited doping laboratory in Beijing is considered state of the art. Not one Chinese athlete has tested positive for drugs at the Athens Games.
 But even with a delegation that no longer raises widespread suspicion, and even with 25 gold medals and 54 over all, the Chinese are not yet in full self-congratulatory mode. Their Olympic success remains largely confined to individual sports, and many of them are relatively minor or regional in popularity. 
 Six of their gold medals came in badminton and table tennis; nine were in weight lifting and shooting. Four have come in diving, a sport with an international talent pool but lacking the same sort of global prestige and audience as major team sports like basketball and soccer or the Olympic showcase sports of track and field and swimming.
 China did win its first gold in tennis here, but it still has pockets of weakness and has yet to win a major team sport at the Olympics, something Chinese officials had hoped to correct in Athens.
 But they are improving. Take it from Yao, whose team defeated the defending world champion, Serbia and Montenegro, with one eye on Athens and the other on Beijing. 
 ''Young players grow up; new players come in,'' Yao said. ''You can see that the four years, 2000 to 2004, those made a huge difference in world basketball. The European basketball was very surprising. They can beat the U.S. They play perfect basketball. That's the word I want to use. We need to work harder to take big steps.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lithuania beat China, 95-75, despite 29 points from center Yao Ming. (Photo by Mike Conroy/Associated Press)
Fans cheering Zhang Yining, who won two gold medals in women's table tennis. (Photo by Mike Hutchings/Reuters)
 Huang Sui, left, and Gao Ling lost the badminton doubles final to their compatriots Yang Wei and Zhang Jiewen. (Photo by Kim Ludbrook/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SOCCER (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%); TENNIS (58%) Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2004); Summer Games (Olympics); Olympic Games (2008)

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (50%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (50%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (50%)

PERSON: Christopher Clarey

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LITHUANIA (90%); SPAIN (79%) Beijing (China); China; Athens (Greece)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



572 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Filings Exceed Forecasts

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 26 

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing for initial unemployment compensation rose more than expected last week, swelled in part by the devastation caused by Hurricane Charley, the government reported Thursday. 
 Initial jobless claims, a rough guide to the pace of layoffs, rose 10,000, to 343,000, last week from an upwardly revised 333,000 the previous week, the Labor Department said. 
 The figures topped forecasts by Wall Street economists, who had projected benefit applications would rise to 335,000 from an originally reported 331,000 claims. 
 A Labor Department spokesman said about half the rise in claims was caused by damage from the hurricane, which battered parts of Florida and the Carolinas two weeks ago. Economists dismissed the climb as largely transitory. 
 The Conference Board, a business research group, said the number of help-wanted ads in the nation's newspapers dipped slightly in July, but ad volume had changed little over the last six months. 
 ''Overall economic momentum is no longer firing on all cylinders and hiring intentions this summer are suggestive that companies may not increase hiring until the economy regains more solid footing,'' said Ken Goldstein, an economist at the Conference Board. 
 The Conference Board surveys help-wanted advertising at 51 newspapers across the country each month. 
 Economists said a one-week rise in new claims for state jobless aid did not tarnish the labor market picture. 
 The closely watched four-week moving average, which irons out week-to-week volatility, fell to 336,750 last week from 337,500 in the week ended Aug. 14.
 The number of Americans who continued to draw benefits after a week edged up to 2.90 million in the week ended Aug. 14, the latest period for which data are available, from 2.89 million the week before. ''After adjusting for Charley, the claims are consistent with what we've been getting since the beginning of the year,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist for Economy.com in West Chester, Pa.


CORRECTION-DATE: August 28, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A credit was omitted in Business Day yesterday for a photograph of a damaged Florida store, with an article about a rise in the number of Americans who filed for initial unemployment compensation. The photographer was Gregory Bull of The Associated Press.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A store in Port Charlotte, Fla., that was damaged last week by the hurricane. Jobless claims rose more than expected, in part because of the storm.Chart: ''Jobless Claims''Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.Graph tracks initial jobless claims (4-week moving average) since March.(Sources by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HURRICANES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); WEATHER (78%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (73%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Classified Advertising; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Charley (Storm)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US); Conference Board

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



573 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Papers Show No Protest By Kissinger On Argentina

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 26 

 BODY:
In a 1976 meeting with officials of the newly installed military junta in Argentina, former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger raised no protest against human rights violations that were the start of Argentina's ''dirty war,'' according to a newly declassified document from United States government archives.
 The document, obtained by the nonprofit National Security Archive under the federal Freedom of Information Act, is a 13-page memorandum on an hourlong meeting between Mr. Kissinger and Adm. Cesar Augusto Guzzetti, the foreign Minister of Argentina, on June 10, in Santiago, Chile. The meeting, Mr. Kissinger's first with the foreign minister, occurred less than three months after the military ousted the government of Isabel Peron. 
 Also at the meeting were William Rogers, then under secretary for economic affairs, and Luigi Einaudi, the current assistant secretary general of the Organization of American States, who took notes at the meeting. Both men have previously denied that Mr. Kissinger privately gave any ''green light'' to political repression and torture in Latin America, as has Mr. Kissinger himself.
 In the meeting, Admiral Guzzetti complained that his country's ''main problem'' was terrorism. ''It is the first priority of the current government,'' he said, adding that the government sought, first and foremost, ''to ensure the internal security of the country.''
 Mr. Kissinger responded: ''We are aware you are in a difficult period. It is a curious time, when political, criminal and terrorist activities tend to merge without any clear separation. We understand you must establish authority.''
 Later, he said, ''If there are things that have to be done, you should do them quickly. But you should get back quickly to normal procedures.''
 Theresa Cimino, an aide to Mr. Kissinger, said he was traveling and could not be reached for comment.
 The meeting occurred amid chaos and violence in Argentina. In the first few months of the dictatorship, three Americans had were arrested or tortured, while opposition figures on the left were hunted down, tortured and killed. A week before the Kissinger-Guzzetti meeting, the body of Uruguay's former president, Juan Torres, was found in Buenos Aires, and American diplomats suspected the Argentine military of the killing.
 In a cable hours before the meeting, the former deputy secretary of state, Charles Robinson, told Mr. Kissinger of an ''inhospitable atmosphere'' for foreigners seeking political asylum in Argentina, and warned that more than 1,300 of them ''could be considered to be in danger from Argentine security forces or rightist extremists, either from Argentina or from their native countries,'' according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
 ''The memorandum of conversation explains why the Argentine generals believed the secretary extended a carte blanche for the dirty war,'' said Carlos Osorio, director of the National Security Archive's Southern Cone Project for Paraguay, Uruguay and Argentina.
 The accusations that Mr. Kissinger had not protested human rights violations in Argentina as early as June 1976 were originally contained in a 1987 article for The Nation by Martin Edwin Andersen, who wrote a book on the subject, ''Dossier Secreto: Argentina's Desaparecidos and the Myth of the Dirty War'' (Westview Press, 1993).
 Previously disclosed documents, however, had shown the subject coming up only in October 1976. At that time, Mr. Kissinger preceded a public address denouncing human rights violations with private words of support to Admiral Guzzetti. ''Look, our basic attitude is that we want you to succeed,'' Mr. Kissinger said at the time. ''What is not understood in the United States is that you have a civil war. We read about human rights problems but not the context. The quicker you succeed the better.''
 The new cable places accusations that Mr. Kissinger did not protest human rights violations in Latin America several months earlier.
 In an interview today, Mr. Rogers said that at the time, Argentina was ''virtually ungovernable.'' He added, ''To interpret what he said to Guzzetti as a green light for human rights violations doesn't stand the test of history.''
 ''Because he didn't say, 'Don't kill people. Don't violate the rule of law,' to say that he really had it in mind that he was tolerating human rights is inconsistent with the record,'' Mr. Rogers said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 30, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about a newly declassified government document describing a meeting attended by Henry A. Kissinger as secretary of state in June 1976 with officials of the military junta in Argentina, at which he raised no protest against human-rights violations there, misidentified the country of a former Latin American president, Juan Torres, whose body had been found in Buenos Aires a week earlier. He had been president of Bolivia, not Uruguay. 


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TORTURE (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); TERRORISM (87%); REFUGEES (78%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ARRESTS (64%) Freedom and Human Rights; Torture ; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (56%)

PERSON: Diana Jean Schemo; Henry A (Dr) Kissinger; William Rogers; Giulio (Dr) Einaudi; Cesar Augusto Buzzetti

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) ARGENTINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); CHILE (79%); URUGUAY (79%) Argentina; Latin America; Argentina

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



574 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Krispy Kreme Earnings Slide; Change in Strategy Is Planned

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Krispy Kreme Doughnuts stunned investors yesterday with disappointing earnings for the second consecutive quarter. The company's shares fell to their lowest level in more than four years, and even after regaining some ground, they ended the day down 10.4 percent.
 Krispy Kreme, which wowed Wall Street with a hot old-economy growth story when it went public in April 2000, has now lost more than two-thirds of its value since it peaked a year ago.
 ''We are obviously disappointed'' in the earnings, said Scott Livengood, the company's chairman and chief executive, who blamed factors including high oil prices, diet-conscious consumers and the growth of Wal-Mart for the results. 
 Livengood said the company would change its strategy to emphasize profits rather than sales. It scaled back revenue forecasts for the remainder of its financial year, which ends next January, and withdrew its earlier profit forecast. It said it would offer no forecasts for earnings in the current year.
 Krispy Kreme has made doughnuts for 67 years, but it became a phenomenon in the late 1990's, when long lines formed at new stores. The company boasted of its ''hot-doughnuts-now experience,'' but it also focused on expanding sales away from the stores where the doughnuts are made. It pushed into numerous supermarket chains and into retail giants like Wal-Mart and Costco.
 But Mr. Livengood said that some supermarket chains where it sold its products had suffered in competition against Wal-Mart. He added that Kroger, one large chain, had dropped Krispy Kreme from some stores. He said this might reflect frustration with the fact that Krispy Kreme delivered once a day and was unwilling to risk large returns, sometimes leaving shelves bare late in the day.
 ''Our focus has been on sales and growth, and less on the day-to-day profits,'' Mr. Livengood said. ''We have not gotten the job done to get the sales to the bottom line.''
 He said the company would focus on such things as cutting fuel costs by improving delivery routes, adding that high gas prices had raised costs and made customers more reluctant to drive to the stores on an impulse.
 Trying to reassure investors that better days were ahead, Mr. Livengood again said the company would introduce a sugar-free doughnut this year. He also said it would open new, smaller stores that could operate in smaller markets.
 Net income fell to $5.8 million from $13 million a year earlier. Revenue in the quarter ended Aug. 1 climbed 11 percent to $177.4 million, but that growth reflected expansion; sales declined in stores open at least a year. 
 Krispy Kreme stock fell $1.59, to $13.77. The shares fell as low as $12.75 after the announcement, the lowest price since May 25, 2000, a few weeks after the company went public in a blaze of publicity. The company faces a Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry relating to accounting practices used when it purchased some franchises, and to previously reduced earnings forecasts. Mr. Livengood said the company was cooperating with the S.E.C. but offered no further comment on the inquiry.
 As it has grown, Krispy Kreme has also faced questions about its marketing from people who view doughnuts as a cause of obesity. ''Krispy Kreme doughnuts are very good,'' said Debra Robinson, a member of the school board of Palm Beach County, Fla., as she questioned a promotion in which students with good grades get a free doughnut, according to an Associated Press report. ''Can't we find something else? I mean, a doughnut?''
 In May, when the stock plunged after the disappointing first-quarter numbers, Mr. Livengood and some other company executives bought shares in the public market. He bought 24,000 shares at $20.77, an investment of almost $500,000. Those shares are worth about $330,000 now.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Krispy Kreme opened its first store in Washington, D.C., this week. The company says it will try to revive its profits by opening smaller stores. (Photo by Lawrence Jackson/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BAKED GOODS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); BAKERIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); EXECUTIVES (55%) Bakeries and Baked Products; Company Reports; Sales; Doughnuts; Bakeries and Baked Products

COMPANY: KRISPY KREME DOUGHNUTS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Krispy Kreme Doughnuts

TICKER: KKD (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (92%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (92%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris; Scott A Livengood

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



575 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Regional Income Steady; City Housing Costs Rise

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
New York City's poverty rate and median income held steady last year, while housing continued to take an ever larger chunk of New Yorkers' paychecks, according to an annual survey released yesterday by the Census Bureau. 
 The data showed that New Jersey had the highest median income in the nation, but that several other states were in close contention; the margin of error for the survey means the ranking could change slightly.
 In Connecticut, which also has one of the highest median incomes in the nation, incomes remained steady while unemployment increased, as did the percentage of people without health insurance. The state's poverty rate increased slightly, but by a percentage too small to be considered statistically significant. 
 The data was drawn from the American Community Survey, which collects information from 800,000 households each year in 1,200 counties, and from the more detailed Current Population Survey, which surveys 100,000 households. 
 The percentage of people in the work force in New York City declined by 1.6 percentage points and the number of unemployed people rose by about 50,000, even as the city's unemployment rate declined, an indicator that some people had simply stopped looking for work. 
 The economic survey was not quite as grim as the national census data released yesterday. That data indicated that poverty rose, incomes were flat and the ranks of the uninsured grew. 
 But included in the findings was evidence that New York's economy did not rebound in 2003, and that the economic squeeze many families face, created by static earnings and rising housing prices, continued to worsen.
 ''The middle-class squeeze is continuing,'' said Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociologist at Queens College. ''More people are out of the labor force. Median income has not increased. Housing prices continue to rise. There is certainly no big rebound found in the economy.'' 
 The poverty rate in New York City was unchanged at 19 percent, far above the national rate of 12.5 percent, and median household income in New York stood at $39,937, a statistically insignificant decline from last year.
 The percentage of New Yorkers spending 35 percent or more of their household income on their mortgages increased six percentage points, to more than 44 percent of survey respondents. The percentage of New Yorkers paying more than 35 percent of their income on rent also rose, to about 42 percent from 38.5 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); STATISTICS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); FAMILY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%) Housing; United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%) Census Bureau

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; New Jersey; Connecticut; New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



576 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Heroines of '96 Find Road Isn't Paved With Gold

BYLINE: By SELENA ROBERTS

DATELINE: ATHENS 

 BODY:
WHEN do women lose their ability to turn heads? 
 In the slumber party atmosphere of the Atlanta Games in 1996, during the ''Year of the Woman'' in sports, the stars who emerged from the Olympics craved grass stains, knee raspberries, touch passes and kicking sand on weaklings.
 The addition of soccer, softball and beach volleyball to sports like basketball as Olympic team events helped send a record 4,000 women to Atlanta for the Lilith Fair of Summer Games.
 The ladies did so well, so fast, there was room for women simply called Dot (Richardson) and Mia (Hamm) to join Sheryl Swoopes of basketball, Jackie Joyner-Kersee of track and Kerri Strug of gymnastics as the names to know from 1996. 
 These weren't your average Avon Ladies calling to push their brand of delicate femininity; these were all-American gals popularly redefining what it meant for a lady to carry a purse.
 Pro paychecks were in the mail as leagues hit the drawing board for women. Magazines were about to be launched to satisfy the appetite for female athletes. 
 Americans couldn't wait for ladies' night at the stadium -- or could they?
 After the Atlanta Games, five professional women's leagues were formed, but only one remains. The sole survivor is the W.N.B.A., a league clinging to its fan base and TV ratings.
 In the afterglow of 1996, women were on their way to endorsement riches, but this year not one female, not even Venus or Serena Williams, hit the Forbes magazine list of the 50 best-paid athletes.
 For some Olympic athletes, the earnings window is closed unless a lady wants to receive some cash from America's peeping Tom, Playboy. High-jumper Amy Acuff recently posed on its cover -- and other female athletes revealed their corrugated abs for other racy magazines -- but the photos only expose a troubling truth: It's not easy for a woman of Olympic fame to make a living. 
 What happened to the ponytail mojo of 1996? In the simplest of terms, women lost their unique appeal in the fallout of cultural acceptance. 
 ''Women in sports is not a novelty anymore,'' said Peter Roby, the director of Northeastern University's Center for Sport in Society. ''Title IX was 30 years ago. You've seen great women athletes perform in the years since, so the idea of a woman in sports is part of the culture now.''
 The inaugural balls are long gone, but women do see the Athens Games as a chance to lure re-investors back into their sports. Perhaps no players are more eager to dazzle a new audience than the dominating American women's basketball team. The women will play to gain a spot in the gold-medal game in today's semifinal against Russia, and they welcome a needed hit of exposure to reintroduce themselves to an American audience. 
 ''We understand that this is a critical time for women's basketball,'' Swin Cash said last week. ''Everyone is looking at the U.S. as the dominant team, and it's a lot of pressure, but I think we can move basketball forward.''
 The game has evolved into a far better form than it was in in 1996, and yet, fans do not seem to find it that attractive, with men unfairly comparing it to the above-the-rim action in the men's pro game. 
 ''We haven't gotten enough people to try out our game, to come and sit and watch,'' said Dawn Staley, a resilient holdover from the 1996 American team. ''People watch one game, and it may not be a good game, and they walk away not being impressed with us. 
 ''We have to make our game reputable. We have to woo them every time out. That's hard to do in any upstart league, but if we hang around long enough, people will come and stay.''
 Patience has been a problem for women's leagues and their players. The women's pro soccer league, or W.U.S.A., was too ambitious too fast for its financial structure. The American Basketball League, the first pro women's league, paid too much to its marquee stars in a futile attempt to compete with the W.N.B.A., which is bankrolled by the N.B.A.'s owners.
 ''It's ironic that the women's game has gotten to the point where it's worthy of pro interest, but in getting there, it has to come under the same scrutiny as any start-up business,'' Roby said. ''The economic conditions didn't help. It's unfortunate that we can't find the right formula.''
 Perhaps the strategy needs a woman's touch. In the early decades of struggle for the N.B.A., there were businessmen who stuck with the product, seduced by the macho glory of owning their own team whether or not they made money. Women's sports could use a Mark Cuban-like benefactor. 
 ''Someone like a Carly Fiorina,'' Roby suggested, referring to Hewlett-Packard's chief executive. ''It would help if women of influence and wealth got behind women's pro sports.''
 Any shrewd businesswoman would understand success does not happen in front of empty stands. If a soccer league or softball league is to try, try again, they cannot do as they have done in the past and price fans beyond the cost of a movie ticket. Their competition isn't the National Football League, it's the Saturday matinee. 
 Maybe it will take a Sugar Momma to produce daughters of the 1996 revolution.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dawn Staley, in her third straight Olympics, said that the more fans watched women's professional basketball, the more they would like it. (Photo by Mark Dadswell/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WOMEN (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SOFTBALL (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); SOCCER (73%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Olympic Games; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Basketball; Women; Olympic Games (1996); Summer Games (Olympics)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: SERENA WILLIAMS (50%) Selena Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



577 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Tech Shares Pushed Lower, but Market Barely Budges

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
A downgrading of several semiconductor companies by a brokerage firm put technology shares under pressure yesterday, while the broader market was little changed as a jump in jobless claims offset investors' relief over declining oil prices.
 Late summer trading is known for being thin, but with the Republican National Convention set for New York next week, Wall Street is even less crowded than usual for late August. And as many traders prepared to take the week off and some money managers planned to reduce staff levels, the market's lack of conviction was reflected in low trading volumes. The drop in oil prices was a bright spot, however, although analysts were not sure it would hold. 
 ''A week ago, people were asking where the top in crude is and now they're asking where the bottom is,'' said Todd Clark, head of listed equity trading at Wells Fargo Securities. ''It's a sea change that's welcome for equities, but against the backdrop of a big event next week that will keep players away from the market, it's tough to get too excited.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average declined 8.33 points, or 0.1 percent, to close at 10,173.41, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 7.80 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,852.92. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.13 point, or 0.01 percent, to 1,105.09.
 In economic news, the number of people who signed up for jobless benefits rose last week by a seasonally adjusted 10,000, to 343,000.
 Oil prices, which set a record by topping $49 a barrel this month, have declined over the last five sessions as anxieties about global supply have eased. On Thursday, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries indicated it would discuss ways to push prices down faster, perhaps through increased production, at its meeting next month. Light crude for October delivery settled 37 cents lower at $43.10 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Krispy Kreme Doughnuts sank 10 percent, or $1.59, to $13.77, after its earnings missed expectations by a wide margin. The company said it expected slower sales for the remainder of the year, and cut the number of new stores it plans to open next year.
 Brown-Forman, whose products include Jack Daniel's and Finlandia vodka, gained 38 cents, to $46.75, after its quarterly earnings beat expectations on robust growth in its liquor business, offsetting weaker sales in its Lenox china division.
 Advanced Micro Devices slumped 3.1 percent, or 38 cents, to $11.82, after Banc of America Securities cut it to neutral from buy, saying the chip cycle had come and gone prematurely, leaving companies in the industry with excess inventory. The brokerage firm maintained its rating, but cut its price targets for several other companies, including Broadcom, which lost 58 cents, to $29.23, and Micron Technology, which fell 20 cents, to $11.83.
 Merck, a Dow component, shed 2.1 percent, or 97 cents, to $45.05, after the health maintenance organization Kaiser Permanente said that it was reconsidering its use of the arthritis drug Vioxx because a major study found it could increase the risk of heart problems.
 Treasury prices rose yesterday. The 10-year Treasury note gained 13/32, to a price of 100 10/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dipped to 4.21 percent from 4.26 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Chart: ''Freddie Mac Yields''Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly.30-year: 5.32%15-year: 4.71%Graph tracks average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly, since May.(Source by F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ELECTRONICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); INTEREST RATES (59%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (57%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (57%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); KRISPY KREME DOUGHNUTS INC (52%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%)

TICKER: AMD (NYSE) (58%); AMD (FRA) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); KKD (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (52%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (52%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



578 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 4; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 3655 words

HEADLINE: THEATER GUIDE

 BODY:
A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy Broadway and Off Broadway shows this weekend. Approximate running times are in parentheses. * denotes a highly recommended show.
+ means discounted tickets were at the Theater Development Fund's TKTS booth for performances last Friday and Saturday nights.
++ means discounted tickets were at the TKTS booth for last Saturday night only.

Broadway

+ ''AFTER THE FALL.'' Perhaps there is something anesthetizing in the discovery that no one in the world is innocent. Portraying a man in thrall to this harsh revelation in a grievously misconceived revival of ''After the Fall,'' Arthur Miller's 1964 drama of moral disillusionment, Peter Krause (of ''Six Feet Under'' on television) certainly appears to be feeling no pain. Or joy. Or any of the stronger emotions that crop up in between. As Quentin, a woman-bedeviled lawyer in search of human connection, Mr. Krause leads the audience through his character's mind like a dutiful museum guide. This is not a winning attitude to bring to a play that is essentially one man's cosmic yelp. And the director, Michael Mayer, does little to raise the emotional temperature. Staged as if it were a breezy period sex comedy, the production suffers from the depth-denying bad faith that the play makes a point of condemning. As Quentin's angry wives, Jessica Hecht and Carla Gugino (as the Marilyn Monroe-like Maggie) provide some much-needed energy (2:30) American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. Tuesday to Saturday at 8pm; Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets: $46.25 to $86.25 (Ben Brantley).

* ''AVENUE Q'' (Tony Award winner for best musical, original score and book of a musical). The inspired brainchild of the songwriters Robert Lopez and Jeff Marx, this canny toy chest of a musical takes its stylistic cues from ''Sesame Street,'' from its cheery urban set to its singing puppets of assorted colors and dispositions. And in doing so it becomes the first mainstream musical since ''Rent'' to coo with such seductive directness to theatergoers on the fair side of 40 in their own language, in which irony is less a mind-set than a loosely worn style. Directed by Jason Moore, with a book by Jeff Whitty, the show applies the coaxing, learning-is-fun attitude of children's educational television to the R-rated situations of postcollegiate life in the big city. Featuring a pitch-perfect ensemble of live performers and oversize hand puppets, ''Avenue Q'' is to ''Sesame Street'' what Mel Brooks's ''Producers'' is to vintage Broadway musicals: a connoisseur's tribute to what it only seems to send up (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Mondays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $46.25 and $96.25, with a limited number of $21.25 tickets available by lottery at the theater at 5:30 p.m. for the evening show and at 11:30 a.m. for the matinee (Brantley).

+ ''BOMBAY DREAMS.'' Colors don't come any juicier than those that saturate this $14 million musical about movie love, Bollywood-style. Scarcely a scene goes by that isn't splashed with gorgeous heaping helpings of oranges, golds, greens, purples, yellows and more shades of pink than even Estee Lauder had names for. Yet such is the perverse spell cast by this friendly, flat and finally unengaging tale of glamorous movie stars and lovable untouchables that everything seems to melt into one neutral blur before your eyes, like a monochromatic symphony in the key of beige. A R Rahman's score has a certain rhythmic infectiousness. And as a self-centered Bollywood screen siren, the deliciously superficial Ayesha Dharker helps turn the central production numbers into lively paeans to Bollywood kitsch. But under the direction of Steven Pimlott, this retooling of a hit from London feels trapped in a listless limbo between tipsy spoof and sober sincerity (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $42.25 to $101.25 (Brantley).

''THE BOY FROM OZ'' (Tony winner for best actor in a musical). Hugh Jackman's shoulders must ache like the devil when he wakes up in the morning. This able-bodied, infinitely appealing young man is spending most of his nights engaged in some painfully heavy lifting that no shoulders, no matter how broad, should be asked to attempt. That's what happens when you put an indisputably authentic star like Mr. Jackman at the center of an indisputably bogus show like ''The Boy From Oz,'' the bathetic musical biography of the Australian entertainer and songwriter Peter Allen, directed by Philip Wm. McKinley. Were it not for Mr. Jackman, there would be no reason to recommend this backstage, back-story look at show business, which makes the movie of ''Valley of the Dolls'' seem like ''Children of Paradise.'' But let it be said that the electric Mr. Jackman, best known for the ''X-Men'' movies, never looks as if he's even thinking about shrugging this soggy cardboard world of a show off his shoulders (2:30). Imperial, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $61.25 to $101.25 (Brantley).

''DRACULA, THE MUSICAL.'' And here it is, looming like a giant stuffed bat on a stick, the easiest target on Broadway. This show, which sets the familiar tale of old snaggletooth to the familiar music of Frank Wildhorn, bristles with all the animation, suspense and sex appeal of a Victorian waxworks in a seaside amusement park. Take your shots. Say something, if you must, about toothlessness or bloodlessness or the kindness of hammering stakes into the hearts of undead shows. But you may concede that it isn't much fun to trash something so eminently trashable. ''Dracula, the Musical,'' which features a book and lyrics by Don Black and Christopher Hampton and is directed by Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''), isn't simply bad, which is an aesthetic state of being that is kind of fun if you're in the right mood. It is bad and boring. Among the talents wasted here are Melissa Errico, Kelli O'Hara, Stephen McKinley Henderson and, looking like a butler's butler in the title role, Tom Hewitt (2:00). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6000. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $36.50 to $101.25 (Brantley).

+ ''FIDDLER ON THE ROOF.'' Should the entertainment entrepreneurs of Branson, Mo., ever come up with a pavilion called Shtetl Land, this is what it would be like. In David Leveaux's handsomely mounted, antiseptically acted revival of this beloved musical of Jewish life in Russia, circa 1900, the ensemble members go through their paces of song, dance and Yiddish humor with a bland, dutiful cheer that rarely turns into anything more robust. It's a pretty, prim production that is bafflingly devoid of gusto, earthiness and warmth. An aura of enervation starts at the top of the cast, with Alfred Molina's apologetic performance as Tevye the milkman, and penetrates like a paralyzing fog into even the smallest roles. Randy Graff, suggesting a fashion editor who has discovered peasant chic, plays Tevye's wife. Tom Pye's set is lovely to look at, and the orchestra sounds swell. But a ''Fiddler'' without a soul has no reason to be (3:00). Minskoff, 200 West 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $35 to $100 (Brantley).

+ ''THE FROGS.'' Even the creme de la creme can curdle every now and then. This musical adaptation of Aristophanes' 2,400-year-old comedy of gods and playwrights has the highest concentration of blue-ribbon talent of any show now on Broadway. It stars Nathan Lane, the only actor who qualifies as serious royalty in the thinning world of musical comedy, and Roger Bart, whose very smile has been known to stop a show. The director and choreographer is Susan Stroman (''The Producers,'' ''Contact''). And the composer is -- reverent pause, please -- Stephen Sondheim. Yet despite these fine ingredients, what should have been a zesty, airy souffle is a soggy, lumpy batter that never shows the slightest signs of rising. Staged in 1974 as a publicity-garnering, hourlong novelty by the Yale School of Drama -- around and in the university gymnasium swimming pool, if you please -- this bauble of a show has been reshaped to fill two and a half hours. The results suggest that to stretch something this slight is to shatter it (2:30). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $65 to $95 (Brantley).

++ ''GOLDA'S BALCONY.'' In October 1973 a 75-year-old woman who grew up in Milwaukee nearly started a nuclear holocaust. The woman, of course, was the Israeli prime minister, Golda Meir; the occasion was the 1973 Middle East War. As a story, it needs very little help from a dramatist or, for that matter, from a director, a designer, an actor or any other theatrically creative type. Moreover, the elements of the pure narrative are so colossally charged with tension and consequence that understatement is the way to go. ''Golda's Balcony'' doesn't go that way, however. It is not the story of a crucial moment in world history but a ponderous essay wrapped in melodramatic autobiography, acted with a soulless verve by Tovah Feldshuh and presented in a cheesily overwrought production directed by Scott Schwartz (1:30). Hayes, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. No performance tonight; tomorrow at 5 and 8:30 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. Beginning August 31, Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 5 and 8:30 p.m.; Wednesdays and Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $46.25 and $86.25; a limited number of student rush tickets are available on the day of the performance for $26.25 (Bruce Weber).

* ''HAIRSPRAY.'' Portraying the plus-size Baltimore housewife Edna Turnblad, Michael McKean is more creditable than credible. Having appeared in deadpan film mockumentaries like ''This Is Spinal Tap,'' Mr. McKean knows the value of playing comedy straight. He doesn't accessorize Edna's housecoat with overwrought feminine mannerisms, and his timing is dead-on. Yet unlike his Tony Award-winning predecessor, Harvey Fierstein, Mr. McKean never makes that final leap of faith that brings out the woman in a man. This shifts the show's emphasis to the younger generation in this pop fable of racial integration and rock 'n' roll. And Carly Jibson, as the boundary-breaking Tracy Turnblad, and Jennifer Gambatese, as her nerdy best friend, combine the hormonal glow of adolescence with the confidence of old pros. Though ''Hairspray'' can be tedious when preaching via big-throated anthems or satirizing via clunky caricature, it is newly vibrant in bringing out the randy rhythms in early rock 'n' roll that made parents fear for their children's chastity (2:30). Simon, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $65 to $100, with a limited number of $25 tickets available by lottery at the theater at 5 p.m. for the evening show and at 11 a.m. for the matinee (Brantley).

*+ ''WONDERFUL TOWN'' (Tony winner for choreography). In this captivating revival of Leonard Bernstein's musical love poem to Manhattan, Donna Murphy gives one of the most dazzlingly accomplished performances you're ever likely to see. As the writer Ruth Sherwood, the role Rosalind Russell slayed 'em with in 1954, Ms. Murphy blithely juggles assorted gleaming styles without ever breaking character. If much of Kathleen Marshall's staging of this tale of dewy Ohio sisters in New York isn't up to Ms. Murphy, well, what would be? Jennifer Westfeldt is charming as Ruth's boy-magnet of a sister. And the orchestra, under the direction of Rob Fisher, is superb, giving ebullient life to Bernstein's lighthearted city symphony of a score. The wisecracking lyrics are by Betty Comden and AdolphGreen. Gregg Edelman is the manly object of both sisters' affections (2:30). Hirschfeld, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $56 and $101 (Brantley).

Off Broadway

* ''BRIAN DYKSTRA: CORNERED & ALONE.'' You won't find many Republicans at Mr. Dykstra's intoxicating one-man comic rant of a show, not when he describes George W. Bush as ''my A.D.D.-suffering, dyslexic, drunk-driving Bush Klan president with a 13-minute attention span, leaky brain pan'' -- we pause here to omit a deprecating anatomical reference -- and the ''I.Q. of a cracked blue soap dish.'' Too bad about the production's useless, less political first half-hour, but the audience is seated cabaret-style and drinks are served (1:30). Triad, 158 West 72nd Street, (212) 352-3101. Tuesdays and Thursdays at 9 p.m. Tickets: $25 (Anita Gates).

+ ''FICTION.'' Steven Dietz's artfully constructed play is flawlessly delivered by its three-member cast. It's just too bad that the two main characters are the kinds of people you can't stand to be around for more than 10 minutes. Their names are Linda and Michael, and they converse in a brainy, allusion-filled banter that seems sophisticated but is really just irritating. The literary citations, pop-culture references and other aren't-I-smart affectations never let up. Linda and Michael, portrayed with admirable verve by Julie White and Tom Irwin, are writers who have kept private journals through their long and seemingly stable marriage. When Linda develops a brain tumor, she asks to spend her last days reading his, and of course there's a secret within. The secret's name is Abby, a sexy remnant from a writers' colony Michael attended years before, and Emily Bergl plays her with a sharp-edged allure that is the production's best feature (2:00). Laura Pels, Harold & Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. Tuesday through Saturday at 7:30 p.m.; Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets: $51.25 to $61.25 (Neil Genzlinger).

+ ''HERE LIES JENNY.'' Conceived and staged by Roger Rees, with musical direction by Leslie Stifelman and choreography by Ann Reinking, this cigarillo-slender show weaves songs by Kurt Weill into a vague narrative cycle about the life and times of one weary woman. Her name is Jenny, and it seems fitting that she should be portrayed by Bebe Neuwirth, who won Tony Awards playing hard-bitten gals from the shady side of the street in ''Sweet Charity'' and ''Chicago.'' But don't expect lurid thrills. The mood is more pensive than prurient, with Ms. Neuwirth's character presented as a soft, battered, sentimental creature, like a ragdoll that has been played with too hard. ''Here Lies Jenny'' is not the sort of show to kick you into gear for a long night on the town. It's more like a reassuring lullaby, which progresses from brooding nostalgia to hope for the morning to come (1:15). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200. Wednesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 8 and 11 p.m.; Sundays at 7 p.m. Tickets: $35 to $60 (Brantley).

* ''MRS. FARNSWORTH.'' Political candidates poised to sling mud might take a pointer from A. R. Gurney: good manners can be lethal weapons. Though this play deals with revelations that are the stuff of smear campaigns, ''Mrs. Farnsworth'' is as polite and sweetly subversive a political attack as you're likely to come across. Set in a creative writing classroom (with the excellent Danny Burstein as the teacher), the play unfolds around its title character's desire to write a novel about her youthful involvement with a man who sounds awfully like George W. Bush. ''Mrs. Farnsworth,'' directed by Jim Simpson, is a polemical exercise that never screams at you. Instead, it feels as if it is spoken out of the side of the mouth -- sotto voce and through a locked jaw (1:30). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, (212) 352-3101. Tonight at 7; tomorrow at 3 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at 3 and 7 p.m. Tuesdays through Saturdays at 7 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $30 to $40 (Brantley).

+ ''THE MUSICAL OF MUSICALS -- THE MUSICAL!'' The musical is the happy narcissist of theater, and parody is the best kind of narcissism. So many of today's musicals strut fancy sets and special effects. A good parody needs smart writers and winning performers; ''The Musical of Musicals -- The Musical!,'' a York Theater production, has four, and two are the composer Eric Rockwell and the lyricist Joanne Bogart. Taking their plot straight from corny old melodrama, they spoof the styles of Rodgers and Hammerstein, Stephen Sondheim, Jerry Herman, Andrew Lloyd Webber, and Kander and Ebb. The Jerry Herman segment is the weakest because his work is the simplest; the pretensions of Lord Lloyd Webber make a better target. The other three are good, zany fun. They have the joie de vivre we want from a musical (1:40). The Theater at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, (212) 868-4444. Mondays through Saturdays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2:30 p.m. Tickets: $55 (Margo Jefferson).

Last Chance

+ ''CAROLINE, OR CHANGE'' (Tony winner for best featured actress in a musical, Anika Noni Rose). A carefully wrought, impeccably performed chamber opera from Tony Kushner (''Angels in America'') and Jeanine Tesori (''Thoroughly Modern Millie''), directed by George C. Wolfe. In temperament this sung-through show is much like its stoical, uncompromising title character (Tonya Pinkins), a black maid for a Southern Jewish family in 1963. A current of self-denial runs through ''Caroline,'' from a libretto that refuses to sentimentalize its heroine to its deliberately fragmented score that avoids anthems of uplift. The tone throughout is evenhanded, slightly distanced compassion as people of different classes are revealed as pawns of a corrupting economic structure. Ms. Pinkins, who has never been better, gives an intense, controlled and commanding performance. In ambition and achievement, ''Caroline'' handily tops this season's new musicals. But it is almost too good to be good (2:35). O'Neill, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $26 to $101 (Brantley).

* ''THE DAY EMILY MARRIED.'' Over more than half a century, Horton Foote has spun a series of hypnotically heartbroken tales for the stage about the residents of Harrison, a small town where knowing everbody who lives there -- and all their private soap operas -- is no guarantee against solitude. Sweet, salty and curiously addictive, Mr. Foote's plays unfold with the soft-voiced, chattering ease of gossip over coffee on the front porch. But if Harrison's stories of wrecked marriages, closet vices and family feuds give it a surface resemblance to Peyton Place, it also has a fair amount in common with the blasted heath of ''King Lear.'' This latest study in mortal loneliness, in which a middle-aged woman and her new husband move in with her aged parents, occasionally tips into overstated melodrama. But under Michael Wilson's direction, Mr. Foote's uniquely harsh sentimentality is wonderfully evoked by a cast that includes Estelle Parsons, William Biff McGuire and Hallie Foote, the playwright's daughter and a peerless interpreter of his sensibility (2:30). Primary Stages, 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $60 (Brantley).

''THE LOVES OF SHAKESPEARE'S WOMEN.'' If Susannah York's show is not quite a master class in the poet's gallery of women, it's as good an introductory course as any around. Ms. York offers brief glimpses of 15 of Shakespeare's women, from Juliet to Lady Macbeth and Portia to Cleopatra. One inherent problem is that while Shakespeare wrote strong female characters, there are not that many actual soliloquies for the women in his plays. Ms. York tries to get around this by collapsing some scenes in which other characters appear, and running the lines of the woman she is portraying together into one speech. But the result often feels incomplete, like hearing only the soprano part of a Verdi trio. There are, of course, bona fide soliloquies for women in Shakespeare, and Ms. York is at her best in those. Her natural comic timing is evident in a very funny turn in which she portrays both Mistress Page and Mistress Ford reading their identical love letters from Falstaff in ''The Merry Wives of Windsor'' (1:15). Blue Heron Arts Center, 123 East 24th Street, (212) 868-4444. Tonight at 8 p.m.; tomorrow and Sunday at 2 and 8 p.m. Ticket: $25 (Wilborn Hampton).

''SLY FOX.'' Why does Larry Gelbart's rowdy, bawdy reinvention of Ben Jonson's ''Volpone'' feel like such a relic? When the show first opened on Broadway in 1976, it was considered the last word in laugh-till-you-drop theater. And Mr. Gelbart's dissection of the lust for lucre would certainly seem to have a place in the age of the Enron and Tyco trials. Yet this sputtering revival only occasionally comes to full comic life. Directed by Arthur Penn (who staged the original), this tale of dirty rotten swindlers in San Francisco in the late 1800's brings to mind a car that has been in the garage for a couple of decades. It emits the occasional promising cough of ignition. But all the concentrated effort of a starry ensemble that just wants to be funny can't make this production's engine turn over long enough to start purring (2:15). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. Tickets: $76.25 to $91.25 (Brantley).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Brian Dykstra in his one-man show at the Triad Theater. (Photo by Gary Smoot)
 Tom Hewitt and Melissa Errico star in ''Dracula, the Musical.'' (Photo by Joan Marcus) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (67%); SONG WRITING (62%); CITY LIFE (60%); THEATER (58%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



579 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 56 words

HEADLINE: Free Market in Florida?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Economics and Disasters'' (letter, Aug. 20), about price gouging in Florida in the wake of Hurricane Charley, equates price-fixing in monopolistic conditions with the free market. 
 This fallacy is too common in today's administration. 

Robert Johnston
Little Rock, Ark. Aug. 20, 2004

The writer is a former economics professor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); CARTELS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WEATHER (88%); WRITERS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (86%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Charley (Storm); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Robert Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (66%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



580 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Lyndhurst: Xanadu Plan Moves Ahead

BYLINE: By Ronald Smothers (NYT); Compiled by George James

 BODY:
The New Jersey Meadowlands Commission yesterday approved -- with reservations -- the plan to build the $1.3 billion Meadowlands Xanadu family entertainment and sports complex, sending it on for a series of detailed lease and permit negotiations with state environmental and transportation agencies. At meetings earlier this year, the commission's hearing officers voiced reservations that echoed criticism of opponents and made 14 recommendations, including requiring stiffer environmental safety measures, more mitigation of expected traffic problems and a host of additional payments by the developer to localities and the state. The commission's chairwoman, Susan Bass Levin, above, said that the project would bring economic development, job creation, increased tax revenues and ''smart growth,'' criteria that influenced the commission's decision to move forward. Ronald Smothers (NYT)


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (85%); TAXES & TAXATION (83%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); JOB CREATION (66%) 

ORGANIZATION: Meadowlands Xanadu; New Jersey Meadowlands Commission

PERSON: Ronald Smothers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Jersey; Meadowlands (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



581 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 3382 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE

 BODY:

A selective listing by critics of The Times: New or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses.

Now Playing

''ALIEN VS. PREDATOR,'' starring Sanaa Lathan, Raoul Bova, Lance Henriksen and Ewen Bremner. Directed by Paul W. S. Anderson (PG-13, 110 minutes). Set in a Jules Verne world beneath the earth's surface in an incalculably ancient pyramid buried 2,000 feet beneath the Antarctic ice cap, Mr. Anderson's film imagines an apocalyptic conflict between two of 20th Century Fox's franchise monsters, on loan from ''Alien'' (1979) and ''Predator'' (1986). The humans, including Ms. Lathan as the world's greatest guide and Mr. Bremner, the Scottish character actor (''Trainspotting''), as a geologist, don't have much to do in ''Alien vs. Predator'' but put the plot in motion and stand back to watch it work, a precarious position that eventually claims most of them. Though it turns out that Mr. Anderson does have an idea for creating a rooting interest, it's too far-fetched even for fantasy, and the film turns into a cold but occasionally impressive special-effects extravaganza (Dave Kehr).

''ALMOST PEACEFUL,'' starring Simon Abkarian, Lubna Azabal and Zabou Breitman. Directed by Michel Deville (not rated, 90 minutes; in French, with English subtitles). Movies about survival often divide between those that grimly insist on the triumph of the human spirit and those equally grim testaments to absolute despair. In ''Almost Peaceful,'' a gently observed film about Holocaust survivors from the French director Michel Deville, survival means something other than choked laughter and sentimental bromides or brute, animal struggle. Survival also means the modest, faltering steps the not-dead take toward the resumption of everyday normal life. Based on an autobiographical novel by Robert Bober, a French writer and filmmaker who worked as an assistant director on a few early Francois Truffaut features, ''Almost Peaceful'' opens in the summer of 1946. In an upstairs apartment on an anonymous Parisian street, Albert (Mr. Abkarian) and his sad-eyed wife, Lea (Ms. Breitman), are raising two young children and running a modest tailoring shop where most of the employees are other survivors. Amid the warm, enveloping hum of steady work and clattering machines, Jews who survived the death camps work side by side with Jews who evaded their horrors, fashioning a new world for themselves stitch by careful stitch (Manohla Dargis).

* ''BEFORE SUNSET,'' starring Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy. Directed by Richard Linklater (R, 80 minutes). Nine years after parting, in Vienna, at the end of ''Before Sunrise,'' Jesse (Mr. Hawke) and Celine (Ms. Delpy) rediscover each other in Paris and relive their brief encounter. This time it is even briefer: the film unfolds, without skipping a minute, in the hour or so before Jesse must catch a plane home to New York, and all those minutes are filled with looping, self-conscious talk as the reunited lovers wander along the Seine. Their intimacy is tinged with nostalgic regret. The airy sense of freedom that they shared in their early 20's has given way to the resignation of adulthood, even as they meander toward a second chance. The liberating sweetness of the earlier movie has mellowed into a saltier, sadder flavor, but Mr. Linklater, one of our most literate and intelligent directors, has not talked himself out of the possibility of romance, and the movie's relaxed, discursive structure is dense with implied feeling and oblique drama (A. O. Scott).

* ''THE BOURNE SUPREMACY,'' starring Matt Damon, Franka Potente, Brian Cox and Julia Stiles. Directed by Paul Greengrass (PG-13; 120 minutes). It may sound odd to call a chilly, paranoid thriller entertainment comfort food. But in the wake of 9/11 this globe-trotting post-cold-war melodrama full of standard cloak-and-dagger intrigue has the reassuring aroma of a home-cooked meal. There are no jihads or terrorists in sight and no apocalyptic scenarios, only dirty little secrets, as spies and counterspies from Russia and the United States tangle in a grubby story involving oil, sold secrets, murders and cover-ups. In this sequel to ''The Bourne Identity,'' many of the major hands who created the first film have returned, including Mr. Damon as Jason Bourne, the C.I.A.-trained assassin who still has serious memory problems and can't recall why he is being hunted by everybody, although blurry flashbacks leave him with clues. As before, he spends almost the entire movie on the run. The thriller reminds you that rhythms of film editing and collage-making have allowed Hollywood to make the chase movie a surefire format. Plot and character ultimately don't matter much in a film that's all about building and sustaining a mood in which visceral and emotional rhythms are blended into a high-gloss thrill ride (Stephen Holden).

* ''BRIGHT YOUNG THINGS,'' starring Stephen Campbell Moore, Emily Mortimer and Dan Aykroyd. Written and directed by Stephen Fry (R, 105 minutes). Mr. Fry, a noted actor and sometime novelist, makes his directing debut with this adaptation of Evelyn Waugh's ''Vile Bodies,'' considered by many to be the funniest novel ever written in English. The movie honors its source with vigor and gusto, capturing both Waugh's cheeky humor and his dark, stringent moralism. Mr. Moore and Ms. Mortimer are touching and funny as the central couple, an impecunious aristocrat named Adam Symes and his long-term fiancee, Nina, but the picture is brought to life by its large supporting cast of both well-known and unknown British actors (and one Canadian, Mr. Aykroyd, playing a blustering press baron). The chaotic plot follows a gaggle of twittering, gilded youth through the cynical, gossip-ridden social whirl of pre-World War II Britain. The parallels with the present are obvious without being overdone, and Mr. Fry's exuberant, occasionally messy film departs from the usual stuffy conventions of costume drama (Scott).

* ''COLLATERAL,'' starring Tom Cruise and Jamie Foxx. Directed by Michael Mann (R, 115 minutes). In ''Collateral,'' the edgy new thriller from Mr. Mann, the city never sleeps; it doesn't even relax. Set in Los Angeles mostly after dark, after the city's sunshine has given way to cool noir, the story centers on a taxi driver, Max (Mr. Foxx), and the assassin, Vincent (Mr. Cruise), who hops a ride with him deep into the night. Pitched between interludes of anxious intimacy and equally nerve-shredding set pieces, ''Collateral'' scores its points with underhand precision. The film is about a lot of different things, about how Los Angeles lights up even at night, how cars become prostheses of ourselves and how driving with the radio on can be bliss. But as with all of Mr. Mann's movies, ''Collateral'' is finally about men and work, and about how being a man is itself a kind of job, which explains why this fastidiously made commercial film isn't just an entertainment, but a statement of personal faith (Dargis).

* ''THE DOOR IN THE FLOOR,'' starring Jeff Bridges, Kim Basinger and Jon Foster. Written and directed by Tod Williams (R, 111 minutes). Avoiding the traps of sentimentality and overdone whimsy that lie in wait for adaptors of John Irving's fiction, Mr. Williams has made a version of ''A Widow for One Year'' that is better than the book. Mr. Foster plays Eddie, a prep school student who spends a long, eventful summer working as an assistant to Ted Cole (Mr. Bridges), a famous writer and illustrator of children's books. Ted and his wife, Marion (Ms. Basinger), are still grieving over the loss of their two sons in a car accident years before, and their marriage is falling apart. All of this might have made maudlin, precious melodrama -- especially when Eddie and Marion begin their affair -- but rather than emphasize the plot, Mr. Williams makes it a relaxed, roomy landscape for the characters to roam around in. The cast rises above the occasional implausibility of the material, and the movie is funny, touching and understated. It is dominated by Mr. Bridges's performance, one of the finest pieces of screen acting by an American man so far this year, a heroically life-size portrait of wounded narcissism and masculine need (Scott).

''EXORCIST: THE BEGINNING,'' starring Stellan Skarsgard and James D'Arcy. Directed by Renny Harlin (R, 114 minutes). Spinning heads, cascades of pea soup and your mother's Army boots are nowhere to be found in ''Exorcist: The Beginning,'' but lovers of the ridiculous may be delighted to know that the specter of little Linda Blair a-twitch and a-tremble is not entirely forgotten. A prequel to ''The Exorcist,'' William Friedkin's 1973 shocker in which Ms. Blair played a child hijacked by Beelzebub, this new film comes gussied up with some fine talent (it stars Mr. Skarsgard as the same character played by Max von Sydow in the original) and a bag of cheap tricks. But when push comes to demonic shove, hell apparently hath no fury like a woman in green pancake makeup, just as surely as some producers have no shame. Despite Mr. Harlin's reliance on shock cuts and loud noises, however, the film singularly fails to deliver any palpable shivers. Perhaps more expectedly it does afford the occasional and presumably unintended laugh (Dargis).

* ''GARDEN STATE,'' starring Zach Braff, Natalie Portman and Peter Sarsgaard. Written and directed by Mr. Braff (R, 102 minutes). This small, smart, off-kilter comedy has the cheek to present itself as ''The Graduate 2004,'' although its affectionate subversion of a popular classic also stamps it as ''The Anti-Graduate 2004.'' From its story of the waking up of an emotionally numbed young man (Mr. Braff) to its editorial use of a contemporary pop soundtrack, the movie obsessively refers to that 1967 generational landmark. The New Jersey suburban landscape to which Andrew, Mr. Braff's 26-year-old alter ego, returns from self-imposed exile in Los Angeles, is a universe apart from the lotus land where he has lived for the last nine years in a chemical stupor. Because ''The Graduate'' established the stock vision of suburban alienation that has persisted through ''American Beauty'' and beyond, you expect ''Garden State'' to uphold the cliche. Instead, it allows Andrew to discover some nuggets of spiritual gold in the East Coast wasteland he dreaded revisiting. As precocious filmmaking debuts tend to be, ''Garden State'' is too self-conscious by half, but its struggle to revitalize a cliche by turning it inside out is a worthy one (Holden).

''HAROLD AND KUMAR GO TO WHITE CASTLE,'' starring John Cho and Kal Penn. Directed by Danny Leiner (R, 87 minutes). This stoner, gross-out comedy has one foot here and one foot there. The here is a politically savvy universe where the title characters, 22-year-old New Jersey roommates who are Asian-American (Mr. Cho) and Indian-American (Mr. Penn), puncture ethnic stereotypes. The other foot is rutted knee-deep in the muck of perpetual puerility according to Hollywood. The movie is a sub-sub-''After Hours'' odyssey in which the title characters, while stoned on a Friday night, catch a galloping case of the munchies from a television advertisement for White Castle burgers and embark on an all-night search through the wilds of New Jersey for the nearest outlet. Along the way the pair are menaced by a gang of extreme-sports punks, a rabid raccoon and a computer-generated cougar they use as a getaway horse. Surviving one mishap after another, the pair finally arrive by hang-glider at their junk food shrine. The chemistry between the two is as old as Abbott and Costello (Holden).

''LITTLE BLACK BOOK,'' starring Brittany Murphy and Holly Hunter. Directed by Nick Hurran (PG-13, 97 minutes). With Ms. Murphy starring as an ambitious associate producer of a trashy television talk show, this movie aspires to be a dewy-eyed self-help fable for ambitious young women folded into a mean-spirited satire of Jerry Springer-style reality programming. Offering few laughs and a climactic scene of breathtaking cruelty, the plot-heavy film draws you against your will into its malignant force field. Almost from the beginning, its sugary and rancid strains work against each other. To put it another way, ''Little Black Book'' would like to be a wised-up but still starry-eyed ''Working Girl'' and a more acerbic ''Broadcast News.'' In trying to be both things at once, it can't hold a candle to either forerunner. Batting her large, vacant eyes and sucking her lower lip into a pout, Ms. Murphy suggests a dumbed-down Meg Ryan with a gloss of Melanie Griffith (Holden).

* ''THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE,'' starring Denzel Washington, Meryl Streep and Liev Schreiber. Directed by Jonathan Demme (R, 130 minutes). Mr. Demme, updating John Frankenheimer's classic exercise in cold war liberal paranoia, wisely treats the original as a touchstone rather than a template, and his movie, in spite of some narrative flaws, stands on its own as a witty, anxious thriller for a new age of political uncertainty. Mr. Washington plays Ben Marco, a veteran of the Persian Gulf of 1991. Haunted by nightmares, he tries at once to hold on to his sanity and unravel a conspiracy that reaches the highest levels of corporate and political power. Mr. Schreiber is a young congressman propelled toward the vice presidency by his monstrous mother, played with ice-chomping glee by Ms. Streep. The convolutions of the story are less important than the vigor of the performances, and the movie wears its attenuated political relevance lightly. Which may be a good thing, since this ''Candidate'' is, in the end, a breathless and intricate thriller about the continuing need for campaign finance reform (Scott).

* ''MARIA FULL OF GRACE,'' starring Catalina Sandino Moreno and Yenny Paola Vega. Written and directed by Joshua Marston (R, 101 minutes; in Spanish, with English subtitles). It's painfully understandable why the 17-year-old title character of this gripping Colombian film would risk her freedom and even her life to be a drug mule. The movie follows the desperate plunge of Maria (Ms. Sandino) from a dead-end job as an assembly-line worker in a Colombian flower factory into the drug-smuggling underworld. Her dangerous undertaking is her last resort when she finds herself unemployed and pregnant. Before the story zeroes in on the harrowing details of drug running and its dangers, it details Maria's hopelessly circumscribed life in a rural village. If her story is a template for countless others like it, what keeps your heart in your throat is Maria herself. In a performance that feels more lived in than acted, Ms. Sandino's Maria is an attractive, smart, spirited young woman who faces the challenge of fending for herself with a fierce determination and ingenuity that compromise but never undermine her essential decency and morality. The movie sustains a documentary authenticity that is as astonishing as it is off-handed. Even while keeping you on the edge of your seat, it never sacrifices a calm, clear-sighted humanity for the sake of melodrama or cheap moralizing (Holden).

''OPEN WATER,'' starring Blanchard Ryan and Daniel Travis. Written and directed by Chris Kentis (R, 79 minutes). In this minimalist, digital video thriller, a tourist couple spend their vacation trying not to be eaten by sharks. ''I wanted to go skiing,'' complains Susan (Ms. Ryan), and you can hardly blame her. She and Daniel (Mr. Travis), her boyfriend, out for a morning of scuba diving, have been left behind by the charter boat, and they bob up and down, fighting panic, exhaustion and each other in a desperate struggle to survive. The film, simply and efficiently shot without special effects or well-known actors, evokes some deep and primal fears, but it is ultimately too small, too under-dramatized, to provoke anything more intense than squirming discomfort. Susan and Daniel are so bland that they could be anybody, which is the problem, and your sympathy for them is fleeting, as if you had encountered them in a short, grisly item on the local evening news (Scott).

''THE PRINCESS DIARIES 2: ROYAL ENGAGEMENT,'' starring Anne Hathaway, Chris Pine and Heather Matarazzo. Directed by Garry Marshall (G, 120 minutes). In the cardboard kingdom of Genovia, the setting for this new feature-length fairy tale, the streets are as scrubbed of dirt and personality as a Disney theme park. A mythic European country where everyone speaks accented English by way of Britain, France and Brooklyn, Genovia is the adopted home of Princess Mia (Ms. Hathaway), a onetime San Francisco teenager-turned-Old-World pretender. Unlike Pinocchio, Mia doesn't hang her wish on just any star; she hangs it on the movie-made promise that every girl can find her inner princess and, like, you know, rule. Directed by Mr. Marshall, who's been selling wish-fulfillment fantasies for years, most notably in ''Pretty Woman,'' and written by Shonda Rhimes, ''The Princess Diaries 2'' combines a classic storybook scenario, in which the former ugly duckling refines her swan standing, with the usual self-help uplift. This time around, the princess who would be queen learns what the rest of us know already: happy movie endings generally come to those women who eat their independence and, in time, a wedding cake, too (Dargis).

''SHE HATE ME,'' starring Anthony Mackie and Kerry Washington. Directed by Spike Lee (R, 138 minutes). In his flailingly angry new comedy, Mr. Lee carries his political exasperation beyond outrage into chaos. The carelessness with which the director hurls his feelings about hot-button topics onto the screen is the filmmaking equivalent of last-ditch marketing: grab everything in sight, roll it up into a big, messy mud ball and hurl it against the wall, hoping that something sticks. Lashing out in all directions, the director addresses white-collar crime, the Bush administration, AIDS in Africa, the Mafia, Watergate, sex and reproduction, lesbianism and the meaning of family in a disoriented rant that lurches from one subject to the next with little to tie it together. A sex farce one minute, a crude political skit the next, an imitation ''Mr. Smith Goes to Washington'' harangue the next, ''She Hate Me'' can't maintain its focus long enough to say anything fresh. The boilerplate polemics mouthed by stick-figure characters sound like the beery 3 a.m. debates of a college bull session (Holden).

''THE VILLAGE,'' starring Bryce Dallas Howard, Joaquin Phoenix and Adrien Brody. Written and directed by M. Night Shyamalan (PG-13, 120 minutes). Mr. Shyamalan remains our leading cinematic rug-puller, but the carpet grows ever more threadbare. This time, he populates a preindustrial Pennsylvania village with an impressive cast of elders and youngsters, who almost never use contractions and who live in fear of some scary creatures in the surrounding woods. As ever, Mr. Shyamalan uses the classic techniques of movie suspense (and James Newton Howard's sinister score) to conjure an atmosphere of mystery and dread, which vanishes even before the big plot twist sends the picture spinning into silly, pretentious allegory. Don't worry, I won't spoil the surprise. It spoils itself (Scott).

''WE DON'T LIVE HERE ANYMORE,'' starring Mark Ruffalo, Laura Dern, Peter Krause and Naomi Watts. Directed by John Curran (R, 103 minutes). Meticulously adapted from two novellas by Andre Dubus, Mr. Curran's film is a somber anatomy of two marriages in crisis. Mr. Ruffalo's Jack, who teaches literature at a small college, is having an affair with Edith (Ms. Watts), the wife of his best friend, a writer named Hank (Mr. Krause), who has a fling with Jack's wife, Terry (Ms. Dern). It is all a bit too symmetrical -- a bedroom farce without a sense of humor -- and the characters float free of any credible social context. But this dark, cracked crystal of a film nonetheless works as a kind of marital film noir, with the threat of emotional violence hanging over every scene. The actors give brave, unshowy performances, especially Ms. Dern, who lets go of any trace of actorly vanity, and Mr. Ruffalo, who portrays male weakness with an honesty rarely seen in American movies (Scott).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Stellan Skarsgard, left, Izabella Scorupco and Remy Sweeney in ''Exorcist: The Beginning.'' (Photo by Sergio Strizzi/Warner Brothers)
 Stephen Campbell Moore and Emily Mortimer in Stephen Fry's ''Bright Young Things.'' (Photo by Giles Keyte/Think Film) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (70%); HOLOCAUST (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (67%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (61%); WRITERS (61%); CHILDREN (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); EARTH (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); ANTARCTICA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



582 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Two Discount Retailers Report Mixed Results

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The Dollar General Corporation, a discount retailer, reported a higher quarterly profit yesterday but said its outlook was uncertain because of high gas prices and unemployment among its core customers.
 Another discount retailer, Fred's Inc., said that its second-quarter profit fell 30 percent. 
 Dollar General, based in Good-lettsville, Tenn., earned $71.3 million, or 22 cents a share, compared with $59.9 million, or 18 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales in the period, which ended July 30 and was the second quarter of the company's fiscal year, rose 11.2 percent, to $1.84 billion. 
 Results in the quarter included a tax reduction and related interest accruals, as well as the opening of about 400 stores. 
 Dollar General said sales of basic items, like food, socks and underwear, were holding up well, but discretionary goods, including home products, did not sell as well.
 David A. Perdue Jr., the chief executive, said uncertainties resulting from the Iraq war and the presidential election had depressed sales. 
 Fred's, based in Memphis, said it earned $3.1 million, or 8 cents a share, down from $4.4 million, or 11 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 12.8 percent, to $340.8 million. Fred's said it expected to offer more markdowns for the rest of the year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (52%) Company Reports; Sales

COMPANY: DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (97%); FRED'S INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Dollar General Corp; Fred's Inc

TICKER: DG (NYSE) (97%); FRED (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (97%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (91%)

PERSON: DAVID A PERDUE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (56%) TENNESSEE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



583 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Tally in Online-Crime Sweep: 150 Charged

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 26 

 BODY:
The Justice Department announced Thursday that more than 150 people had been arrested, charged or convicted in the last three months in a wide-ranging sweep of criminal activity on the Internet. 
 The cases, involving credit card fraud, corporate espionage and other offenses, are part of what the department called Operation Web Snare. The sweep was conducted by 37 offices of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 13 divisions of the Postal Inspection Service and other federal and local agencies. Investigators have identified more than 150,000 victims with losses in excess of $215 million. 
 ''This is a series of cases that is designed to signal that we do not believe the Internet to be off base for law enforcement,'' Attorney General John Ashcroft said at a news conference here Thursday.
 Some cases involved the sending of junk e-mail, known as spam, and a form of online identity theft known as phishing. But many of them involved the use of the Internet by companies seeking to gain an advantage on competitors. 
 In one unusual case, the chief executive of a company that resold satellite television systems was indicted on charges of hiring hackers to set up online attacks that interfered with its rivals' Web sites. The executive, Jay R. Echouafni of the Orbit Communication Corporation, has left the country and is being pursued in what the department called ''an international manhunt led by the F.B.I.''
 In another case cited by the Justice Department, Robert McKimmey, identified as the chief technology officer of the Business Engine Corporation, pleaded guilty in federal court in San Francisco in July to charges that he stole trade secrets from a software rival, the Niku Corporation, by breaking into its computers. 
 EBay, the online auction site, continued to be a fertile ground for fraud, the department said. In one case it described, a California man named Jie Dong built a record of satisfied customers, reflected in the widely used ''feedback'' ratings on the site, by selling $150,000 worth of merchandise at low prices, according to a criminal complaint filed in Los Angeles last week.
 But last fall, he sold $800,000 worth of goods, like DVD players and digital cameras, to 5,000 people and never delivered the products. He, too, has fled the country, but the government has been able to locate and freeze $280,000 it says are stolen funds.
 While Mr. Ashcroft characterized the cases as the products of a coordinated action, they had a variety of origins. For example, the Justice Department's list of cases included the criminal charges brought against Jason Smathers, a software engineer at America Online who is accused of selling the e-mail addresses of 92 million AOL members to people who sent out junk e-mail. The case was announced in June and had its roots in an internal investigation by AOL.
 Packaging a variety of disparate cases as a ''sweep'' has a number of beneficial effects for a law enforcement agency, said Paul Luehr, a former official of the Federal Trade Commission and now a vice president of Stroz Friedberg, a consulting firm.
 ''Law enforcement agencies believe that a sweep has a much more powerful deterrent effect on would-be criminals because they can see that prosecutions are not one-off events,'' he said. Sweeps also serve the political needs of an agency, he added, ''because the sweep can let the public and Congress know the agency is attempting to address an important problem.''
 Indeed, Mr. Ashcroft, when asked why the department was devoting time to Internet crime in an era of terrorism, answered: ''When you have $50 billion worth of damage being done to the economy of the United States of America, then it deserves some of our attention.'' 
 Another reason for a high-profile effort like this one is to create a rallying point so that law enforcement agencies will cooperate with one another, Deborah Platt Majoras, the head of the Federal Trade Commission, said at the news conference Thursday.
 ''Coordinated crackdowns like Operation Web Snare pack the punch that we need to stop online fraudsters in their tracks and keep cyberspace safe for consumers and businesses,'' she said. The F.T.C. has brought civil actions in several Internet cases that have also led to criminal prosecutions.
 Mr. Luehr said it was notable that so many of the cases that the Justice Department highlighted involved the cooperation of law enforcement agencies overseas. Many Internet crimes involve webs of people and machines around the globe, and it has been difficult in the past for American authorities to get their overseas counterparts to cooperate.
 At the news conference, Mr. Ashcroft mentioned cooperation with Nigeria, which has been the source of a number of e-mail-based scams. The best known of these are e-mail messages that seem to be from deposed African leaders or their family members, offering large sums of money as a lure to get bank account information from the victim.
 Ibrahim Lamorde, the director of operations for Nigeria's Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, talked of training, assistance and software that his organization received from the F.B.I. and other United States sources. This helped in arresting and charging some fraud perpetrators, he said. 
 But he also said that some of the assistance did not suit Nigeria's particular needs. ''Most of the software we receive is meant to stop people from receiving e-mail,'' he said. ''We want to stop e-mail from going out of the country.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Attorney General John Ashcroft, below, announced that action had been taken on a wide range of offenses. The Justice Department said Jay R. Echouafni, right, hired hackers to disrupt rivals' Web sites. (Photo by Gerald Herbert/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INTERNET CRIME (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); IDENTITY THEFT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (89%); EMAIL MARKETING (88%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (87%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); COMPUTER CRIME (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); PHISHING (77%); CYBERCRIME (77%); ESPIONAGE (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); ENGINEERING (71%); INSPECTIONS (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); WEB SITES (71%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (69%); AUCTIONS (68%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (68%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (66%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (63%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (63%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (62%); LARCENY & THEFT (58%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%) Computers and the Internet; Suits and Litigation; Frauds and Swindling; Credit and Money Cards; Industrial Espionage; Identity Fraud; Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: CA INC (65%); AOL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (95%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); POSTAL INSPECTION SERVICE (57%) Justice Department; Federal Bureau of Investigation; Postal Service; Orbit Communications Corp; Business Engine Corp; Niku Corp; Ebay Inc

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (65%); AOL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (65%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: Jay R Echounfni; Robert McKimmey; John (Atty Gen) Ashcroft; Saul Hansell

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



584 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE GOVERNOR; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Low-Key Leader Is Fired Up Over Election

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore. 

 BODY:
Gov. Theodore R. Kulongoski is often described as fairly low-key. 
 He is diplomatic -- even while tangled in the ongoing strife in the State Legislature over Oregon's deep budget troubles -- casual and reserved, according to people who know him. 
 But the presidential election and the Iraq war have really gotten the Democratic governor, who likes to be called Ted, riled up. 
 Mr. Kulongoski, 63, a former Marine, has attended 19 of the 20 funerals in the state for Oregon soldiers or marines who have died in Iraq.
 And after initially supporting the decision to go to war, he has had biting words for President Bush over Iraq. ''Does the president have any idea of what we're doing?'' Mr. Kulongoski hollered into a microphone at a Portland fund-raising event several months ago. 
 Then a few weeks ago he shouted, almost at the top of his lungs, ''Is this the greatest state in the nation or what?'' to a roaring crowd estimated at 50,000 at another Kerry event in Portland. 
 As uncharacteristically rambunctious as the governor was at those two events, it is not clear how much help he will be to Mr. Kerry in Oregon. The state's extremely independent voters are rarely swayed by the preferences of their politicians, and the governor himself has said he has reservations about Mr. Kerry. 
 In an interview, Mr. Kulongoski said he believed that the candidate and the Democratic Party as a whole needed to focus on what ordinary people worry about most: paying their bills, having enough money for retirement, losing sons and daughters in the war. 
 And while the governor has often said the economy is the top concern for Oregonians, it is the war that seems to rankle him most. 
 ''What is the end date?'' he said in an interview. ''What is the exit strategy? What I try to do as the governor of Oregon -- it's very important to me that the whole state not only grieves with them but understands the pain they are feeling because of the loss of their child. We all actually are basically suffering.''
 It has not been an easy year for Mr. Kulongoski, who was reared by nuns in a Roman Catholic boys home in Missouri. He was elected governor in 2002 after serving as a legislator, attorney general and an Oregon Supreme Court justice. 
 The state's economy was devastated by the dot-com bust and job losses in manufacturing, and unemployment has remained stubbornly high. Mr. Kulongoski and other Democrats tried unsuccessfully to help balance the Oregon budget earlier this year with a temporary increase in the state income tax, in a ballot measure that was roundly rejected. 
 And then, last spring, former Gov. Neil Goldschmidt, a Democrat who was considered something of a mentor to Mr. Kulongoski, acknowledged having a sexual relationship with a 14-year-old girl 30 years ago. The Oregonian newspaper has reported an accusation that Mr. Kulongoski knew of the relationship before it became public, a charge the governor has consistently denied.
 Many voters say they are not sure what to make of Mr. Kulongoski.
 ''I'm not impressed by him yet, but he hasn't been in there very long, so it's fair to give him some time,'' said Howard Post, 64, a Republican from Oregon City, 30 miles south of here. ''He's got his nose in hot water about the ex-governor, Goldschmidt, and this 14-year-old girl.'' 
 While some voters think the scandal could taint the governor, his colleagues on both sides of the aisle tend to say it will not.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Theodore R. Kulongoski in his office in Salem, Ore. (Photo by Greg Wahl-Stephens for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); REFERENDUMS (72%); BALLOTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); RELIGION (50%); INCOME TAX (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Biographical Information

PERSON: TED KULONGOSKI (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%) Sarah Kershaw; John (Sen) Kerry; Theodore R (Gov) Kulongoski

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%); SALEM, OR, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (98%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%) Oregon

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



585 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Health Plans Cover Fewer While Costs Keep Rising

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Rising costs for health coverage and a continuing fall-off in the number of workers in employer-sponsored health plans are among the reasons that a greater number of people did not have health insurance last year, experts say. 
 The increase in uninsured people last year, as reported by the United States Census Bureau yesterday, was 1.4 million, to a record 45 million.
 More than 10 million of those without insurance were young people, 25 to 34 years old, government officials said, an increase of 576,000 from 2002. ''Young adults got hammered,'' said John F. Holahan, a health economist at the Urban Institute, a nonprofit research center in Washington. 
 In 2002, there were 43.6 million people without insurance, or 15.2 percent of the census estimate of 288.3 million Americans. The proportion of people who were uninsured grew only slightly last year, to 15.6 percent. That reflected growth in the total population and 3.2 million more people added to government health programs including Medicare, Medicaid and state coverage for children. More than one in four Americans is in a public program.
 As the population grew, the number of people who had insurance also increased, by one million, to 243.3 million last year, also a record, the Census Bureau said.
 Health insurance is a hotly debated campaign issue. Senator John Kerry has promised new subsidies to extend coverage to more people. The Bush campaign points to a feature of the new Medicare law that provides tax breaks for special savings accounts to help people pay for care. 
 Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, who led a recent Republican panel that studied health insurance issues, said the ''uptick'' in the number of uninsured ''reflects the still sluggish economy'' in 2003. He said one million new jobs had been added since then.
 Bill Frist of Tennessee, the Senate majority leader, said the numbers also reflected ''a decade-long downward trend in the proportion of Americans who receive health insurance through their employers.'' 
 Len M. Nichols, vice president of the nonprofit Center for Studying Health Systems Change in Washington, said, ''The question is whether the recovery will be strong enough to generate good jobs with health insurance to counter the fact that health insurance is more costly now.''
 Surveys by research groups show that health costs continue to rise much faster than wages and other costs borne by employers. Economists say the employment trend is still moving away from jobs that provide generous coverage.
 Employers are already planning for steep increases in health costs for 2005. A separate survey of 916 employers released yesterday by Mercer Human Resource Consulting, a benefits consulting firm, said costs of current coverage would rise about 13 percent next year. Many employers plan to cut back on benefits and shift more of the costs to their workers to slow the increase to 9.6 percent, on average, Mercer said.
 The cuts will ''increase the pressure on small employers to discontinue coverage or increase their employees' share of premiums,'' said Blaine Bos, a Mercer survey spokesman. The upshot will be ''more employees saying, 'I don't see the value of that' and going without insurance,'' he said. 
 There were 20.6 million uninsured full-time workers last year, the Census Bureau said, an increase of 1.6 million over the last two years. 
 The Census Bureau said that 12.1 million people without insurance were members of families with annual incomes of $50,000 or more, including 6 million in families that made at least $75,000 a year. Some conservative economists contend that these people could afford to pay for insurance.
 ''Households that earn $50,000 per year or more account for about 90 percent of the increase in the number of uninsured over the past 10 years,'' according to the National Center for Policy Analysis, a research center based in Dallas that says it opposes government solutions to public policy problems.
 Health policy experts who advocate a greater government role say a family with $50,000 in total income has trouble affording family coverage, which typically costs more than $9,000 annually, unless it obtains help from an employer or the government. They say many of these people are self-employed or work for small businesses that find health costs daunting. 
 This year the number of uninsured people in families with incomes of $50,000 or more increased by 704,000, the census report said. It also said there were 619,000 people without insurance in families with incomes of less than $25,000.
 Although a number of states, including Texas, have cut back on children's health programs, the number of uninsured children declined slightly, to 8.4 million, but remained at 11.4 percent of all children, last year. The proportion of poor children without insurance was 19.2 percent. 
 The proportion of uninsured people held steady among Hispanic, Asian and black Americans. About 18.5 percent of blacks, 18.7 percent of Asian-Americans and 32.7 percent of Hispanics did not have insurance.
 With large numbers of Hispanic residents, Texas and New Mexico have the highest proportions of uninsured people, the Census Bureau said. Both had average uninsured rates of more than 20 percent over the three years from 2001 to 2003. The three-year average was 19.4 percent in Louisiana, 18.7 percent each in California and Oklahoma, and 17.8 percent in Alaska. 
 The states with the lowest three-year averages were Minnesota, at 8.2 percent; Rhode Island, at 9.3 percent; and Iowa and Wisconsin, at 9.5 percent each. Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Vermont were also at the low end, with 9.9 percent. 
 The uninsured rate was 15.5 percent in New York, 13.7 percent in New Jersey and 10.4 percent in Connecticut.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Going Without''Rising health insurance coverage costs and fewer workers in employer-sponsored health plans drove the number of uninsured people to a record 45 million last year.Graph tracks number of Americans without health insurance from 1993 to 2003.(Source by Employee Benefit Research Institute analysis of Census Bureau data)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (94%); CENSUS (91%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TRENDS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (79%); POPULATION GROWTH (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); MEDICAID (58%) Medicine and Health; Labor; Records and Achievements; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (58%); MERCER INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (57%) Census Bureau; Center for Studying Health System Change

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JUDD GREGG (75%) Judd (Sen) Gregg; Bill (Sen) Frist; Len Nichols; Milt Freudenheim

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



586 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: In Kobe Bryant Case, Issues of Power, Not of Race

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: EAGLE, Colo., Aug. 26 

 BODY:
As recently as a generation ago, the fact that Kobe Bryant is black and the woman who has accused him of rape is white would probably have been enough to reawaken at least a few of the ghosts that rattle around America's racial attic. Many men have been lynched on the basis of lesser accusations.
 But as the first prospective jurors file in for questioning here on Friday for the beginning of Mr. Bryant's sexual-assault trial, and nearly 600 journalists from around the world descend to record every twitch, many of the totems and taboos that might have once framed and defined the case are conspicuously absent.
 Some scholars and social critics say the simple answer is that society has traded one set of preoccupations for another. Race, as an issue of trial strategy and social debate, has been supplanted in the Bryant case, they say, by questions of celebrity and class; what really separates defendant and accuser is not color but power. Mr. Bryant has power in abundance as a wealthy basketball star for the Los Angeles Lakers, and his accuser, a former front-desk clerk at a hotel who is from a small town in Colorado, does not. 
 ''Celebrity status trumps race,'' said Professor Lawrence M. Friedman, who teaches the history of law at Stanford University Law School.
 Other experts say they are not so sure. Attitudes about race are so deeply entwined in American culture, they say, that the effects can never be entirely discounted. But so are attitudes about gender, and the case presents those issues in bewildering abundance as well.
 ''It's really hard to go up against a powerful man and accuse him of rape -- that's been clear since the beginning of time, and that's what this case is all about,'' said Caroline A. Forell, a professor at the University of Oregon School of Law and a specialist in gender issues. 
 It is on such distinctions, of race and gender politics and the implications of celebrity, that the competing narratives in the monthlong trial are likely to be formed. The lawyers on each side will, in effect, be selling a story as they try to convince the 12 jurors not just about guilt or innocence, but ultimately about which of the two people at the center of the case to believe or disbelieve.
 Mr. Bryant, 26, is charged with felony sexual assault as a result of his encounter with the woman, whose name has not been officially released, at the hotel where she worked near Vail on the night of June 30, 2003. He said they had consensual sex. The woman, who was 19 at the time, says that they flirted and kissed, but that he became violent and raped her. If convicted, he faces four years to life in prison, or up to life on probation, not to mention the damage to his basketball career and the product endorsements that once came with it. 
 That Mr. Bryant's defense would center on the idea of consensual interracial sex is itself a testament, many legal scholars say, to how thoroughly times have changed. Other likely twists involve the evidence itself.
 In most rape cases, DNA is one of the bedrocks that prosecutors use in convincing a jury that a defendant's semen was present inside the victim. But for the prosecutors in the Bryant case, DNA is a problem.
 Because Mr. Bryant admits having intercourse with his accuser, the DNA evidence against him does not help the prosecution's case very much, and what is worse, it could undermine the credibility of his accuser. A defense expert who examined the medical evidence, and who will testify at the trial, said the test results suggested that the woman had sex with someone else after Mr. Bryant. If the jury believes that, sex-crimes experts say, the prosecution's case and the woman's claim of traumatization at Mr. Bryant's hands could be devastated.
 So this week, just two days before jury selection was to start, prosecutors from the Eagle County district attorney's office went on the attack. They told the court they believed that the DNA evidence had been contaminated and that the data had perhaps been ''manipulated'' by defense experts when they had it in their custody. Chief Judge W. Terry Ruckriegle of District Court said he needed more than just prosecutors' belief and gave a deadline of early next week for proof of the claim, leaving a potentially huge and unknown wrinkle for the middle of the trial. In the meantime, he said, jury selection would move forward.
 The trial will also reveal much about how Colorado's rape victim protection law works, or does not, under the glare of a celebrity case. The law, like many others around the country, is meant to prevent defense lawyers from attacking an accuser's character by presenting evidence about her sex life.
 Judge Ruckriegle ruled last month that details about the woman's sexual behavior in the 72 hours before her examination by doctors was relevant to the case. The woman was examined July 1, 2003, the day after the encounter with Mr. Bryant. 
 But what will be equally important in the trial, lawyers watching the case say, is how the judge fine-tunes some of the issues of that sex-history evidence in the give-and-take of objections and instructions to the jury.
 Specifically, the judge said that other sexual encounters during the 72 hours might explain the woman's vaginal abrasions and could also give the jurors insight into the context and events of that time period to better assess her credibility.
 Opening the door to questions of context and credibility, critics of the ruling say, could allow exactly the kind of scrutiny of the woman's personal life that the so-called rape-shield laws were meant to stop when they were enacted beginning in the 1970's. Others say that the ruling was correct and that it illuminated precisely why the shield laws should be open to case-by-case consideration because the jury should have adequate information to evaluate the witnesses it hears. 
 What the jurors might think about that evidence is, of course, the ultimate question, and those people will be drawn from an economically and socially diverse corner of Colorado. 
 Eagle County includes money-drenched towns like Vail and more modest communities like Eagle, the county seat, two hours west of Denver. The county is slightly better educated than Colorado as a whole, according to census figures, has a higher per-capita income and also a higher percentage of foreign-born residents: 18 percent, compared with 8.6 percent statewide. About a quarter of its residents are Hispanic. The dependence on a service-based economy means that many people work in tourist towns in which they cannot afford to live.
 One sociologist who has studied celebrity culture said he thought that the jurors in the Bryant case might, on a certain level, vote on what they think about fame.
 ''Some people believe that celebrities are overpaid and coddled; they have this image of people who think they can get away with anything,'' said Joshua Gamson, an associate professor of sociology at the University of San Francisco and author of the book ''Claims to Fame: Celebrity in Contemporary America.''
 The just-as-resonant countering image that might be used by the defense, Mr. Gamson said, is the gold digger, a person drawn to celebrities because of what they have or what they exude.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pamela Mackey, left, Hal Haddon, center, and Terry O'Connor, in Eagle Colo., yesterday, are defense lawyers for the basketball star Kobe Bryant, who is accused of rape. Jury selection in the trial is to begin today. (Photo by Associated Press)
 Mark Hurlbert, left, the Eagle County district attorney, spoke yesterday with Ingrid Bakke, a deputy district attorney, before a pretrial hearing. (Pool Photo by Hyoung Chang) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); LAW SCHOOLS (87%); RACE & RACISM (78%); FELONIES (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); JURY DUTY (76%); LAWYERS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); WRITERS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); HOTEL STAFF (66%) Basketball; Jury System ; Sex Crimes; Discrimination; Blacks; Law and Legislation; Basketball

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (94%) Kirk Johnson; Kobe Bryant; Lawrence M (Prof) Friedman; W Terry (Judge) Ruckriegle

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Eagle (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



587 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: America's Failing Health

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Working Americans have two great concerns: the growing difficulty of getting health insurance, and the continuing difficulty they have in finding jobs. These concerns may have a common cause: soaring insurance premiums. 
 In most advanced countries, the government provides everyone with health insurance. In America, however, the government offers insurance only if you're elderly (Medicare) or poor (Medicaid). Otherwise, you're expected to get private health insurance, usually through your job. But insurance premiums are exploding, and the system of employment-linked insurance is falling apart. 
 Some employers have dropped their health plans. Others have maintained benefits for current workers, but are finding ways to avoid paying benefits to new hires -- for example, by using temporary workers. And some businesses, while continuing to provide health benefits, are refusing to hire more workers. 
 In other words, rising health care costs aren't just causing a rapid rise in the ranks of the uninsured (confirmed by yesterday's Census Bureau report); they're also, because of their link to employment, a major reason why this economic recovery has generated fewer jobs than any previous economic expansion.
 Clearly, health care reform is an urgent social and economic issue. But who has the right answer?
 The 2004 Economic Report of the President told us what George Bush's economists think, though we're unlikely to hear anything as blunt at next week's convention. According to the report, health costs are too high because people have too much insurance and purchase too much medical care. What we need, then, are policies, like tax-advantaged health savings accounts tied to plans with high deductibles, that induce people to pay more of their medical expenses out of pocket. (Cynics would say that this is just a rationale for yet another tax shelter for the wealthy, but the economists who wrote the report are probably sincere.)
 John Kerry's economic advisers have a very different analysis: they believe that health costs are too high because private insurance companies have excessive overhead, mainly because they are trying to avoid covering high-risk patients. What we need, according to this view, is for the government to assume more of the risk, for example by picking up catastrophic health costs, thereby reducing the incentive for socially wasteful spending, and making employment-based insurance easier to get. 
 A smart economist can come up with theoretical justifications for either argument. The evidence suggests, however, that the Kerry position is much closer to the truth.
 The fact is that the mainly private U.S. health care system spends far more than the mainly public health care systems of other advanced countries, but gets worse results. In 2001, we spent $4,887 on health care per capita, compared with $2,792 in Canada and $2,561 in France. Yet the U.S. does worse than either country by any measure of health care success you care to name -- life expectancy, infant mortality, whatever. (At its best, U.S. health care is the best in the world. But the ranks of Americans who can't afford the best, and may have no insurance at all, are large and growing.)
 And the U.S. system does have very high overhead: private insurers and H.M.O.'s spend much more on administrative expenses, as opposed to actual medical treatment, than public agencies at home or abroad. 
 Does this mean that the American way is wrong, and that we should switch to a Canadian-style single-payer system? Well, yes. Put it this way: in Canada, respectable business executives are ardent defenders of ''socialized medicine.'' Two years ago the Conference Board of Canada -- a who's who of the nation's corporate elite -- issued a report urging fellow Canadians to bear in mind not just the ''symbolic value'' of universal health care, but its ''economic contribution to the competitiveness of Canadian businesses.'' 
 My health-economist friends say that it's unrealistic to call for a single-payer system here: the interest groups are too powerful, and the antigovernment propaganda of the right has become too well established in public opinion. All that we can hope for right now is a modest step in the right direction, like the one Mr. Kerry is proposing. I bow to their political wisdom. But let's not ignore the growing evidence that our dysfunctional medical system is bad not just for our health, but for our economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INSURANCE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (74%); MEDICAID (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (69%); CENSUS (69%); MEDICARE (58%) Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Paul Krugman; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



588 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC PLATFORM; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Sees Credit Card Abuses, And Promises Steps to End Them

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry added a plank to his platform yesterday, promising to push for legislation that would curb what his campaign describes as abusive practices in credit card and mortgage lending.
 The proposals coincided with the announcement of new Census Bureau data showing that family and household income, adjusted for inflation, had fallen over the first three years of the Bush administration. The decline came as consumer debt rose, and the new plank promised relief for wage earners in straitened circumstances. 
 ''Abusive lending practices can take a huge bite out of the incomes of families who are working and can barely pay their credit card bills,'' Robert Gordon, Mr. Kerry's director of domestic policy, said.
 Companies that issue credit cards, mainly banks, often double the interest rates if a cardholder is late with a monthly payment or the holder's creditworthiness is challenged. Mr. Kerry would require notice before each rate increase and limit the increase to a few percentage points.
 ''There is no proportionality now in these increases,'' Gene Sperling, an economic adviser to Mr. Kerry, said. ''They can go from 8 to 28 percent.'' 
 A Kerry administration ''would ask Congress to legislate standards and to direct the Federal Trade Commission and bank regulators to impose regulations consistent with those standards,'' Mr. Sperling said. Much of this would be achieved through amendments to the Truth in Lending Act, he and Mr. Gordon said. 
 Credit card lenders would also be required to disclose, in prominent type on bills, how long it would take to pay off a debt, and the cost in interest if the card holder made only minimum monthly payments. 
 A California law imposed this standard, but credit card issuers challenged it in court in 2002, and the Bush administration's Office of the Comptroller of the Currency sided with the issuers. The comptroller argued that only federal regulators could impose such a restriction on nationally chartered banks and that his office did not plan to do so. The state lost the case.
 Mr. Gordon said that some minimum payments were so low that they barely kept up with interest costs or fell behind them, in which case the balance could never be repaid. 
 Other changes proposed by the Kerry campaign would require lenders to forgo penalty charges when they allowed card holders to go beyond their borrowing caps. A cardholder with a $5,000 credit limit, for example, can face a penalty for reaching $5,200 even if the card company approved the charge that put the total over $5,000.
 Mr. Kerry's principal mortgage proposal would prohibit lenders from using balloon mortgages in most subprime loans, which often go to low-income people at higher rates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US TRUTH IN LENDING ACT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); STATISTICS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); FAIR LENDING (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); CENSUS (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); APPROVALS (68%) Credit and Money Cards; Election Issues; Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Housing; Mortgages; Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (58%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%) Louis Uchitelle; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



589 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: A Windfall From a Student Loan Program

BYLINE: By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
More than a decade ago, Congress decided it was giving away too much to the student loan industry, needlessly guaranteeing big profits at taxpayer expense. So lawmakers put their collective feet down, passing a law that gradually erased hundreds of millions of dollars in subsidies that could have gone directly to students instead.
 Or so they thought. 
 Today, lenders are collecting a record amount of the old subsidies Congress thought it had retired, government data show, and they are busily stepping up the pace. Taking advantage of a loophole in the law, student loan companies have been billing the federal government at the rate of nearly $1 billion a year, at least four times the amount just three years ago -- all for a subsidy that was supposed to have largely faded away. 
 ''The banks are obviously making an all-out effort to milk the loophole for as big a subsidy as possible,'' said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who tried to rein in the lender payments more than a decade ago, only to watch them grow. ''Every penny of this unnecessary subsidy should be helping needy students struggling to pay for college.'' 
 Even some student loan companies say that the large subsidies they are receiving from the government, guaranteeing them 9.5 percent interest rates at a time when students pay much less than that, are hardly the best way of expanding access to college. But until either Congress or the administration closes the loophole promising them higher profits than the market offers on its own, there is little reason for them to stop using it.
 ''This is the playing field, and we're just playing on it,'' said Don R. Bouc, the president of Nelnet, one of the nation's largest student loan companies. According to federal records, provided by members of Congress, Nelnet's quarterly payments from the government at the old subsidy rate have gone from about $4.6 million at the end of 2002 to $48.7 million in June. 
 ''Yeah, it's a great return,'' Mr. Bouc said of the subsidy. ''But there are better ways of using the money.'' 
 Virtually all parties in the debate, be they Republican or Democrat, say the loopholes should be closed so that the money can benefit students, not bottom lines, but few can agree on whose responsibility it is. 
 Democrats accuse the Bush administration of tacitly supporting the loopholes by paying the swelling invoices some lenders send them. The Education Department blames the Clinton administration for setting an early precedent that it is merely following today. Congress has a number of proposals before it from each side of the aisle, but has made little headway on the issue -- or on most of the other major higher education questions before it -- for the better part of a year. 
 In the meantime, student loan companies like Nelnet are building up huge loan portfolios that carry the old subsidy rate, and may continue to carry them even if the law is changed. At the close of 2002, for example, there were $12 billion in loans guaranteed at the 9.5 percent interest rate, federal data show. Within 18 months, that figure had grown to $17 billion. Nelnet alone accounts for more than $3 billion of the increase. 
 ''It was widely assumed that these loans would gradually decline and eventually disappear,'' said Terry W. Hartle, a senior vice president for the American Council on Education who worked on the legislation more than a decade ago. ''Apparently, it didn't work out that way.''
 Government payments to student loan companies are not unusual. In fact, they are a cornerstone of the federal financial aid system, enabling companies to offer students unusually low interest rates while still making their profit margins. But throughout the 1980's, some lenders, particularly states and nonprofits, were granted fixed interest rates of 9.5 percent, guaranteed by the government regardless of what students actually paid. 
 Congress eliminated the guarantee by 1993, eventually moving to a system that is more closely tied to the market, but it allowed some lenders to keep collecting the higher interest rates on money they had already raised. What Congress did not anticipate was that interest rates would fall so low, making the promise of a 9.5 percent return a potential windfall in a market where students are paying less than 3.4 percent in interest on their loans. 
 Moreover, some of the lenders who originally qualified for the guarantee have been converted into, or have been subsumed by, for-profit companies, putting greater emphasis on the search for profits. In recent years, lenders have begun employing some creative financing tactics to keep the old guarantees alive on entirely new loans, according to a report by the Government Accountability Office. It found that the guarantees have given lenders at least $1.7 billion more in federal subsidies than they might have received otherwise, and most of that has come in the last few years.
 More than three dozen lenders, most of them nonprofits, received the higher interest rates last year, the accounting office found, and almost half of them have managed to expand their loan portfolio in recent years, assuring them bigger subsidies. The Southwest Student Services Corporation, for example, a lender that was bought this month by Sallie Mae, the industry giant, more than doubled its holdings to around $650 million worth of loans in the last two years, federal records show. 
 ''Everyone's rushing in before the door closes,'' said Matthew J. Snowling, an analyst with Friedman, Billings, Ramsey. 
 Democrats in Congress contend that the Education Department has stood back and let loan companies exploit loopholes giving them access to old subsidies, in part because of the Bush administration's political connections with lenders. Indeed, Mr. Bouc of Nelnet was appointed by the department to serve on a financial aid advisory committee, but the department points out that it is not in favor of these higher subsidies, and has proposed changes that would save billions in its budget for the next fiscal year. 
 As for closing the loopholes now, while lenders are hurriedly mounting large portfolios, the department said there was little it could do. ''I don't think we would want them to do it,'' Sally Stroup, an assistant secretary of education, said of the rapid increase in new loans with the old guarantees. ''But I don't think we have the legal authority to stop them.'' 
 Many experts, including some within the department itself, disagree. ''It is the agency's rules that created the loopholes,'' said Robert Shireman, director of the Institute for College Access and Success, which published a report today with findings similar to the G.A.O.'s. ''It is the agency's responsibility to fix them. It is irresponsible not to act.''
 The department says it is anxious for Congress to rewrite the law, soon. Members of Congress are confident a change will come, eventually, but so far the issue has been just one of many tied up in the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, which expired last year. The process has been highly partisan, inflamed by intense lobbying from loan companies and educators alike, and is nowhere near completion.
 Beyond that, Republicans and Democrats differ on how tightly the loopholes should be closed. While Republicans in the House have proposed cutting off the guarantee on loans made after May 2004, Senate Democrats say the government should refuse paying the high subsidies to any company that has used the loopholes to build large loan portfolios over the last few years, and possibly even before that. 
 Though rising interest rates will probably decrease the size of the subsidies lenders receive, the delay could still be costly because student loan companies can keep issuing new loans with the old guarantee until the rules are changed, experts say. In its report, for instance, the institute for college access estimates that waiting another year to close the loopholes could cost an extra $2.8 billion in federal subsidies that do not expand college access but siphon away money that could possibly be used for college grants instead.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, tried to rein in the lender payments over a decade ago, only to watch them grow. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)(pg. C2)Chart:Many student loan lenders are using a loophole in federal law to collect large payments from subsidies that Congress tried to phase out.Federal subsidy payments to lenders for student loansBased on 9.5 percent interest ratesGraph tracks federal subsidy payments to lenders for student loans for the last seven quarters.(Source by U.S. Department of Education)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (87%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) Colleges and Universities; Colleges and Universities; Law and Legislation; Records and Achievements; Credit; Student Loans

COMPANY: NELNET INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%)

TICKER: NNI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (90%) Greg Winter; Edward M (Sen) Kennedy

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



590 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: The German Question: If Workers Get Less, Will More Get Work?

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
AMONG the major industrialized economies, Germany is the un-United States. Americans spend with abandon, while Germans save. America runs a huge and growing trade deficit, while Germany's exports rise along with its trade surplus. American housing prices have risen sharply, while German prices have stagnated.
 Unemployment is high in Germany -- 10.5 percent over all in July and much higher in eastern Germany -- but people with jobs tend to have a great deal. Germans typically start working later in life than Americans and retire earlier. They work fewer hours each week and have longer vacations. If they lose their jobs, unemployment benefits are higher than in America and can continue indefinitely. 
 But that is changing. Volkswagen said this week that it wanted a pay freeze and longer hours for some workers. To some extent that may be a negotiating tactic, but Siemens and DaimlerChrysler have already won significant concessions. Dieter Brauninger, a Deutsche Bank economist, notes that many Germans already work more than the 35-hour workweek that the big unions won in 1998. He says longer hours are both needed and inevitable.
 And the Social Democratic government of Chancellor Gerhard Schroder appears to be standing fast on an overhaul of unemployment compensation, despite demonstrations in eastern Germany. The new rules say that workers will get unemployment benefits for just a year after losing a job (or 18 months for those over 55). Then they must either find a job or apply for a new benefit -- much less generous -- based on need. To get that benefit, an unemployed person must fill out a long form that asks about such things as the value of the applicant's home and the savings of family members.
 Many Germans see lifelong unemployment insurance as a right paid for with wage deductions and are outraged by a means test. But the hope is that the change will persuade people who can find jobs to do so. 
 In the best of all worlds, longer hours -- lowering pay per hour but not overall income -- should lead to higher investment and employment, stimulating spending by both businesses and consumers. But that impact, if it is to come at all, is not near. For now, German growth is stronger than it has been in three years, but the 2 percent annual growth rate reported in the second quarter is not exactly soaring, and all of it came from exports. Consumers did not spend, and companies reduced capital investment.
 ''We should see strong export growth feeding into hiring by now,'' said Elga Bartsch, a German economist at Morgan Stanley. ''The debate is whether the export-led recovery will spill over into domestic demand.'' 
 One reason it may not be spilling over is that consumers worry that changes will hurt them, and thus fear spending. Businesses may be getting enough concessions from workers to refrain from moving jobs out of the country, but with far lower wages prevailing in the new East European members of the European Union, little new investment is being made in Germany.
 A German economic rebirth might have taken place in the 1990's, but for the botched job of reunification. By insisting that the East German mark was equal in value to the western one, Germany made the east instantly uncompetitive. What could have been a magnet for investment instead is a depressed area where the former Communists are gaining strength in coming state elections. 
 Investors were enthusiastic about Germany a year ago but seem unimpressed now. Volkswagen shares are down about a third from the high they set last autumn, but if the company secures a good deal in labor talks, investors might take another look. Betting on an economy with a lot of saving -- and no possibility of a housing bubble -- may yet become popular.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks German real G.D.P., year-over-year change, measured quarterly since 2000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TRENDS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); WORK WEEK (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); RIOTS (60%) Labor; Economic Conditions and Trends; Unemployment Insurance; Wages and Salaries; Working Hours; Demonstrations and Riots; Automobiles

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); SIEMENS AG (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Volkswagen Ag

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); SIN (SWX) (56%); SIE (LSE) (56%); SIE (FRA) (56%); SIE (BIT) (56%); SI (NYSE) (56%); MS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (78%) Gerhard (Chancellor) Schroder; Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



591 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Latest French Policy on U.S.: Don't Say Anything at All

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 26 

 BODY:
Everyone knew that Dominique de Villepin, the permanently tanned, America-obsessed poet-diplomat, would be a tough act to follow as foreign minister of France.
 Nonetheless, the presentation by his successor, Michel Barnier, at an annual conference of French ambassadors on Thursday perplexed many of those present.
 In a speech intended to give his 150 foot soldiers their marching orders for the coming year, Mr. Barnier never once mentioned the United States. 
 Nor did the words or phrases Russia, NATO, Israel, Palestinian, the trans-Atlantic alliance or Sept. 11 emerge from his lips.
 And in a tonal shift, Mr. Barnier called for a France that is humble. That adjective was not normally associated with Mr. de Villepin, who was once described in the French magazine Le Point as ''a silver wolf with burning eyes'' and who became Europe's most vocal critic of the Bush administration's march to war against Iraq.
 ''France is not great when it is arrogant,'' said Mr. Barnier, a onetime member of Parliament from the Savoy region who has had little exposure to the United States. ''France is not strong if it is alone.''
 Mr. Barnier said almost nothing about the current crisis in Iraq, except to list the country as one of the ''open conflicts'' in the world and a target of terrorist acts. There was no discussion of how France should help resolve the Israeli-Palestinian crisis, which Mr. de Villepin often called the most urgent regional problem facing the world.
 Mr. Barnier was once the Foreign Ministry's point man on Europe and served for four years as the European Union's commissioner for regional policy and institutional reform. So no one was surprised when he told his envoys that the only way to maximize their global influence was to think European. 
 ''The first reflex, I say bluntly, must be European,'' he said. ''I know that this evolution is not inscribed in the long and prestigious history of our ministry. But the influence of our country depends on it.'' 
 The minister's performance, the first time a number of ambassadors have witnessed him in action, caught many of them unprepared. ''He is at base a local politician coming from the Savoy, not a traditional Gaullist at all,'' said one ambassador. ''He came across as the anti-de Villepin.''
 Mr. de Villepin seemed determined to revive the historic greatness of France. He has a romantic view articulated in his book on Napoleon, ''The Hundred Days,''' that describes the emperor's philosophy as '''Victory or death, but glory whatever happens.''
 So the omission of a reference to the world's only superpower by Mr. Barnier was striking.
 ''The minister is presenting his new ideas for diplomacy rather than covering old ground,'' said an aide to Mr. Barnier, defending his worldview. ''There was no need to talk about the United States.''
 A number of ambassadors described Mr. Barnier as an exceptionally cautious man who wanted to avoid making news and upstaging President Jacques Chirac, who will deliver his own state-of-the-world speech to the ambassadors on Friday.
 Other ambassadors noted that when Mr. Barnier took over the Foreign Ministry in a cabinet shuffle five months ago, part of his mandate was to repair France's tattered relationship with the United States, not to ignore it.
 ''Perhaps the minister went a bit far in not mentioning the United States,'' one retired ambassador said drily.
 Mr. Barnier's presentation underscored just how much the Foreign Ministry has changed since the cabinet shifts in March that made Mr. de Villepin the interior minister.
 Last year, before the same audience, Mr. de Villepin spoke at length about France's relationship with the United States, saying it would be useless to deny the differences between the two countries and sharply criticizing Washington's refusal to grant Iraq sovereignty.
 Mr. Barnier described the greatest diplomatic challenges facing France today as attacks on the global environment, health epidemics like AIDS, and poverty.
 A number of ambassadors who serve in countries where wars are raging or where French troops are deployed worry that war and peace have been sidelined and time-sensitive decisions are not being made.
 Some diplomats who just a few months ago were complaining about Mr. de Villepin's impetuousness, quick temper and relentless demands are now saying they even miss him a little.
 Mr. de Villepin was said by friends to have resisted the move to the Interior Ministry, which is considered politically more important than the Foreign Ministry but deprives him of the world stage.
 His political future is unclear. The low standing of Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin in the polls and the political ascendancy of Nicolas Sarkozy, the economy minister and a fierce rival of Mr. Chirac, have fueled speculation that Mr. Chirac may promote Mr. de Villepin, perhaps his closest confident in government, to prime minister.
 But asked in an interview with the radio station RTL early this month whether he was preparing to move into the prime minister's office, Mr. de Villepin replied, ''Listen, that's not an issue on the table.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The outspoken former foreign minister, Dominique de Villepin. (Photo by Daniel Janin/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)
 The quiet Frenchman, Foreign Minister Michel Barnier. (Photo by Fethi Beliad/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); WRITERS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (91%) Elaine Sciolino; Michel (Min) Barnier; Dominique (Min) De Villepin; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); IRAQ (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) France; Iraq; France

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



592 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Challenges Bush to Debate Weekly Until Election

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: ANOKA, Minn., Aug. 26 

 BODY:
Seizing on a new census report to bolster his argument that wages have fallen and health care costs have risen under the Bush administration, Senator John Kerry on Thursday challenged the president to weekly debates until Election Day.
 ''America deserves a serious discussion about its future; it does not deserve a campaign of smear and fear,'' Mr. Kerry, the Democratic presidential nominee, told several hundred people at a technical college here. ''The president and I can meet somewhere, we can have a discussion, we can stand up, we can share our thoughts.'' 
 Suggesting a series of sessions on health care, education, national security and the environment, he added: ''Let's meet every week from now until the election and talk about the real issues facing Americans.''
 Mr. Kerry, who earlier this week said Mr. Bush had ''won every debate he's ever had,'' made a similar proposal after securing his party's nod in March, when he called for monthly face-offs.
 The Bush campaign, which has not yet accepted a nonpartisan commission's schedule for three debates starting Sept. 28, said the president would not deal with debate plans until after his nominating convention next week.
 ''During the next few weeks, John Kerry should take the time to finish the debates with himself,'' suggested Steve Schmidt, a spokesman for Mr. Bush. ''This election presents a clear choice to the American people between a president who is moving America forward and a senator who has taken every side of almost every issue and has the most out-of-the-mainstream record in the U.S. Senate.''
 Mr. Kerry's debate challenge came as the Census Bureau released new figures showing that 1.3 million more people were living below the poverty line in 2003 than in 2002, and that the number of people without health insurance grew by 1.4 million in the same period. 
 ''The census figures are facts; they're not political diatribe,'' Mr. Kerry said, citing an average income decline of $1,500, while health-care costs, here in Minnesota, shot up $2,600. ''They don't have a political label on them; they're facts, statistics, and they tell a story when you add them all up.''
 Mr. Schmidt countered that the census report, covering 2003, did not consider the economic gains this year, including the addition of 1.5 million jobs, and that the poverty rate and numbers of uninsured cited were below some comparable figures in the Clinton administration.
 Here in Anoka, a Minneapolis suburb of 18,076 that was once home of the radio host Garrison Keillor, Mr. Kerry's campaign worked to lure undecided voters to meet the candidate. Mr. Bush carried Anoka County by 47.5 percent to Al Gore's 46.7 percent in 2000, even as he lost Minnesota by two percentage points. 
 The crowd, which rewarded Mr. Kerry with several standing ovations, hardly seemed on the fence, with many saying in interviews afterward that they had long been fans. But they did throw him some curveball questions. Asked about advertisements painting him as a waffler, Mr. Kerry grew indignant, calling the charge ''standard Republican playbook'' and tossing it back at his opponent.
 ''Now, let me ask you something: Is opposing the Homeland Security Department and then suddenly embracing it when the newspapers write something, is that flip-flopping?'' Mr. Kerry said after acknowledging that he had voted for the North American Free Trade Agreement, then later criticized the way it was enforced. ''Is telling us Condoleezza Rice is not going to testify then she does testify, is that a flip-flop? Is telling you you're going to fund No Child Left Behind and then stripping it of $27 billion, is that a flip-flop? I mean, you tell me, ladies and gentlemen, let's get real here.'''
 Echoing a question asked earlier this month of Mr. Bush at a forum in Florida, Darla Bleeke, 54, inquired of Mr. Kerry, ''Are you a Christian?'' and asked why Americans have to ''put up with'' new immigrants who change the fabric of communities.
 ''You may or may not like my answer and I may lose your vote over my answer,'' Mr. Kerry replied. ''The answer is, yes, I am a Christian, but that should not be what decides whether or not somebody votes for me in the United States of America.''
 Chastising Ms. Bleeke for her characterization of immigrants, Mr. Kerry said that everyone but American Indians was descended from them, and that the country was founded by ''people who came here to get away from religious persecution.''
 ''I want you to understand, I value my faith -- I was an altar boy as a kid, it carried me through Vietnam, I believe what I believe and it's part of who I am, it gives me values, it gives me a sense of place and proportion, and humility,'' said Mr. Kerry, a Roman Catholic who attends church most Sundays. 
 ''We are a country that's made up of people who are Christians and Jews and Muslims and Confucians and Hindu and so forth -- and agnostics and even atheists -- and that is the nature of who we are,'' he added. ''And I as president will uphold the oath of office of the Constitution of the United States, which the founding fathers smartly and fervently made clear separates affairs of church and state.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 31, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about Senator John Kerry's challenge to President Bush for weekly debates misstated the date of the first presidential debate scheduled by a nonpartisan commission. It is Sept. 30, not 28.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Monica Vollmuth, president of the Minnesota Nurses Association, referred twice yesterday to John Kerry as Senator Kennedy in her introduction. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CENSUS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); POVERTY RATES (67%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); TED KENNEDY (58%) Jodi Wilgoren; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



593 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 922 words

PERSON: Stephen ColberT

HEADLINE: Covering the Convention for Laughs

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
THE celebrity aura is beyond palpable. Right here, plastered to the door of the second-floor men's room at 513 West 54th Street, the studio/headquarters for Comedy Central's Emmy-winning ''The Daily Show with Jon Stewart,'' is a blue star with Stephen Colbert's name on it. 
 Mr. Colbert, an alumnus of the Second City comedy troupe who pretends to brag about his status as the show's senior correspondent, once used this men's room as a prop for a skit called ''How to Be a Correspondent.'' The lavatory was his dressing room. A few years later, the star remains as testimony to his, ah, comedic stamina. 
 When you are a correspondent for a newscast that advertises itself -- on a gigantic billboard adjacent to one for Fox News just across 34th Street from Madison Square Garden, the site of the Republican National Convention -- as ''the most trusted name in fake news,'' hanging your star on the men's room seems logical enough. Mr. Colbert, who deems the campaign trail one big snooze fest, covered (sort of) the Democratic convention last month and pledges to give next week's Republican convocation in Manhattan fair and equal treatment. It's a balance thing. 
 ''The conventions are like industrials -- they're sales rallies where politicians say things people have already heard to people who already believe them,'' he says. Ferreting out the hypocrisy in both conventions is easy pickings.
 ''I have the luxury of not being a real reporter, and in fact, I'm not even a pundit,'' admits Mr. Colbert, whose actual dressing room/office is a shrine to all things ''Lord of the Rings,'' including a Gandalf for President button and an animated cave troll that serves as arbiter of his writing sessions with fellow ''Daily Show'' parodists. 
 If an idea is funny, the troll raises a trident. If a gag falls flat, it lowers a mace and grunts. Mr. Colbert doesn't trust his own judgment. ''I always love all of the ideas,'' he says, giving the troll a peck on its ugly cheek. 
 When Mr. Colbert -- who relinquished his adolescent dream of being, not just playing, Hamlet to write and perform improvisational comedy -- turned 40 recently, one of his gifts was a Lettermanesque list, the Top 10 Reasons Why Stephen Colbert Is Secretly a Republican. 
 It is, he says, why he will blend in nicely at the convention. His fondness for navy-blue blazers, button-down shirts, khakis, the suburbs (he, the wife and three children live in New Jersey) and church every Sunday figure prominently. 
 On his wall is a 1972 Nixon campaign poster that, he says, represents the awakening of his political consciousness. ''That's when I became aware of the abuse of power,'' he says. ''I became a true believer. I'm the last of 11 kids; my brothers and sisters, with just two exceptions, are all Republicans, and they always used to say to me, 'Why are you such a pinko?''' 
 What he really is, behind the facade of Stephen Colbert, faux correspondent, is a liberal in conservative's clothing. He is, he says, way too square to be hip, way too well informed about politics to be anything but skeptical in private and, hopefully, nothing but funny on the air. 
 ''I don't have to pretend to be impartial,'' he says. ''I'm partial. I'll make fun of anybody. I wish we had an effect on the way people think about politics, but I don't think we do. I see the show as a relief from the political process, especially now, when so much of politics is built on the idea of fear. We're about falling down and going boom on camera.'' 
 He does, however, have one earnest convention agenda, provided he wangles sufficient access: ''We want to find out actual information about Republicans. We want to know where the pods are, where they're grown, and we want to photograph them before they're harvested.'' Just kidding. 
 Can a guy who displays a bottle of Screaming Sphincter cayenne pepper sauce beside his velvet ''swooning couch,'' who writes and stars in the just-completed film version of ''Strangers with Candy,'' the Comedy Central series he wrote with Amy Sedaris and Paul Dinello, and who performs the voice of Ace on ''The Ambiguously Gay Duo'' cartoon that he and Robert Smigel invented for ''Saturday Night Live,'' be anything but a kidder?
 MR. COLBERT grew up in Charleston, S.C., in what he calls a ''humorocracy where the funniest person in the room is king.'' Dad was a doctor of immunology; Mom was an aspiring actress whose stage career was doomed by her 11 pregnancies. Mr. Colbert's thespian aspirations had her full blessing. 
 After two years in Virginia at Hampden-Sydney College, which he recalls as ''an inorganic rock of ultraconservatism,'' he switched to Northwestern's theater program, and came under the sway of the improvisational guru Del Close.
 He auditioned for and was accepted by Second City, where he met Ms. Sedaris and Mr. Dinello, who are still his writing partners. Initially he was part of the Second City touring company, then was promoted to company resident in 1989 and remained there five years before decamping, with Ms. Sedaris and Mr. Dinello, to develop ''Exit 57'' for HBO Downtown Productions. 
 He was a writer and performer on ''The Dana Carvey Show,'' which lasted just eight episodes, flunked a two-report tryout with ''Good Morning America'' as a field correspondent and was mainly unemployed in New York City in 1996 and 1997, an unfunny experience that causes him to overextend himself these days. 
 ''I work all the time,'' he says, ''mainly out of fear that the day will come when I can't think of anything funny.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: STEPHEN COLBERT (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); THEATER COMPANIES (72%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%) Television

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%)

JON STEWART (91%); STEPHEN COLBERT (90%) Robin Finn; Stephen Colbert; Jon Stewart

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



594 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: SWING STATES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: No Bumper Sticker Defines The Fey Oregonian Voter

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

DATELINE: OREGON CITY, Ore., 

 BODY:
Jerry Witham's presidential votes over the last 20 years might seem rather erratic. 
 He voted for Ronald Reagan once, Bill Clinton twice and President Bush in 2000. Now Mr. Witham, 40, a cook at Howell's Restaurant and Lounge here in northwest Oregon and one of this state's many independent voters, has decided to switch back to the Democrats and vote for Senator John Kerry. 
 ''I don't feel like I like being trapped into being a Republican or a Democrat,'' Mr. Witham said in an interview at the restaurant recently. ''I feel like being an independent gives me more choices.'' He said he voted for George W. Bush in 2000 because ''I believe he deserved a chance.'' 
 But, he added: ''I don't think he did the best job that he could. I don't believe he was honest with us with the whole thing going on in Iraq. And I think he had his own economy above the American people's.''
 Mr. Witham's voting record is not unusual in Oregon, a battleground state with 1.9 million voters that Al Gore won by less than one percentage point in 2000. Ralph Nader made one of his strongest showings in Oregon, with 5 percent of the vote. 
 Besides being an independent, Mr. Witham is what pollsters call a ''switchable,'' and there are a lot of them in Oregon, where one in five voters, or 400,000 people, are registered independents. Tens of thousands of others are registered with alternative parties like the Libertarians and the Pacific Greens, and many registered Democrats and Republicans have no qualms about decamping to the other side. 
 At a time when the national electorate is polarized, the votes of the switchables and independents are coveted in a swing state like Oregon. ''We think so differently in Oregon than people do in the rest of the country,'' said Alice Norris, the mayor of Oregon City, a former mill town 20 miles southeast of Portland, at the nexus of the Clackamas and Willamette Rivers. ''We fancy ourselves to be incredibly independent.''
 Ms. Norris was a Republican until several years ago, when she switched to the Democrats.
 Oregon, with its seven electoral votes, is considered a ''top tier'' swing state because of how close the 2000 election was. And while the populous Portland area is liberal, outlying rural and suburban counties amid forests or farms, including this one, Clackamas, are either divided or far more conservative.
 But the most recent polls show Senator John Kerry pulling ahead of Mr. Bush in Oregon, breaking a dead heat that was in effect for much of the spring and early summer. In a July 23 poll of 600 likely voters by the American Research Group, Mr. Kerry, who drew an estimated 50,000 people to a riverfront park in Portland on Aug. 13, the day Mr. Bush was host of a private meeting with about 2,000 business people in nearby Beaverton, was leading Mr. Bush, 50 percent to 42 percent. The same group released a poll in May showing a tie at 45 percent. 
 Mr. Kerry has visited Oregon three times since the campaign began; Mr. Bush has visited twice. 
 [To date, Mr. Kerry has raised more money than Mr. Bush in Oregon, $1.5 million, compared with Mr. Bush's $1.3 million, according to PoliticalMoneyLine, which tracks campaign financing.]
 ''As voters in Oregon are looking at the Bush presidency, I think by and large you've got a slight majority who find it wanting,'' said Tim Hibbitts, who conducts polls for The Oregonian, the big newspaper. ''Bush has a very large base here, but it's not a winning base at all.'' But Mr. Hibbitts added, ''I do not believe that by any stretch it's over in Oregon or that Bush can't win here.''
 While many voters say the economy is their top concern -- Oregon has had the nation's highest unemployment rate for many of the last 18 months -- Mr. Hibbitts and other voters said it was the war in Iraq that was now hurting Mr. Bush here. 
 The American Research Group poll showed that Mr. Bush had lost support among Republicans from May 5 to July 23, with 80 percent supporting him in the latest poll, down from 90 percent. 
 But Mr. Bush maintains a loyal core here. Morrie Jubb, 51, an unemployed accountant who lives in Aurora, not far from Oregon City, is a registered Republican who has voted for Jimmy Carter and Ross Perot. And he said that although he was tempted by Mr. Nader's candidacy, he would probably vote for President Bush.
 ''Things have to be taken care of, and you can't do it in four years and then start with a new person again,'' Mr. Jubb said. ''Maybe he's the lesser of two evils, but at least he knows his way around the White House.''
 Mr. Jubb and several other Bush supporters said they did not blame the president for the nation's or Oregon's economic woes.
 ''He's done a good job with the economy,'' said Art Harding, 55, an engineer who lives here in Oregon City and is a Republican. ''With what happened with the high-tech industry and the stock market, it was something that was going to happen.''
 Still, Democrats, including the governor, Ted Kulongoski, are betting that Oregon's economic troubles will motivate voters unhappy with President Bush and give Mr. Kerry a more comfortable margin of victory than they gave Mr. Gore in 2000, when Oregon's economy, heavily tied to the high-tech boom, was flying high. 
 Recent bad news on the national jobs front does not bode well for Oregon, which is already far behind other states, with an unemployment rate in July of 6.8 percent, well above the national rate of 5.5 percent. (That is a decrease from July 2003, when the Oregon unemployment rate was a whopping 8.7 percent.) 
 ''It's still the economy,'' Mr. Kulongoski said in a telephone interview. ''It's the whole issue of jobs.''
 Oregon, which has the nation's only all-mail-in balloting system, often eludes political pigeonholing because of its voters' tradition of fierce independence. Oregonians abhor big government and taxes. They have rejected a state sales tax nine times over the last 40 years, and this year they voted down a temporary income tax intended to solve the state's budget crisis. 
 Oregon is the only state that allows doctor-assisted suicide, and Republicans and Democrats alike have vigorously defended the law in the face of repeated challenges from conservatives, including Attorney General John Ashcroft, who recently lost an effort to have it struck down by a federal appeals court. 
 Gay marriage will be a critical election issue here. The state's well-organized social conservatives succeeded recently in placing on the November ballot a proposed amendment to the state's Constitution that would define marriage as between a man and a woman. But pollsters and several Republican voters said even conservative voters in Oregon, with one of the nation's largest gay populations, mostly in Portland, are likely to be squeamish about allowing the government a say in such personal decisions. 
 ''I don't care,'' Mr. Harding, the Republican engineer, said. ''I would vote to allow it, contrary to my Republican history. I believe individuals have a choice.'' 
 It is easy to see why this county, which along with Washington County, also near Portland, is one of two important swing counties in the state, drew early and intense interest from Democrats and Republicans. 
 Clackamas, a collection of suburbs, exurbs and rural towns whose economy is tied to the production of metals, machinery and computer hardware and software, as well as to retail, is virtually evenly split between Democrats and Republicans. Mr. Bush won this county in 2000 by only about 1,100 votes of about 162,000 cast. 
 Independents make up a significant bloc in this county; 23 percent of voters are not affiliated with either party, while 37.3 percent are registered Democrats and 39 percent Republicans. In 2000, 8,000 voters cast ballots for Mr. Nader or other alternative candidates, and the campaigns are aggressively going after those voters.
 The campaign here began in earnest here months earlier than it did in 2000, with each party claiming unprecedented interest among volunteers. Democrats attribute the show of support for Mr. Kerry to a belief that the votes cast for Mr. Nader had cost Mr. Gore the election. 
 But Mr. Nader failed in April in his initial effort to gather the signatures required for a place on the ballot. [On Tuesday, the deadline for his second try, organizers for Mr. Nader submitted more than 18,000 signatures, well above the 15,306 need. But a legal challenge is threatened by a union that supports Mr. Kerry, the Service Employees International Union.] Despite Mr. Bush's dip in the polls, many of his supporters here are holding fast. 
 Andy Spicer, 21, a college student, said he would be voting for the first time in November, for Mr. Bush. He has plenty of friends and relatives who disagree with his choice, but he said he disliked Mr. Kerry. 
 ''I would rather not vote for someone whose whole campaign is, 'I'm not this person -- I'm not George Bush,''' he said on a recent afternoon. ''Tell me who you are.''
 Joe Pankownin, a construction worker who lives in Beaver Creek in Clackamas County, said he did not vote in 2000 because he did not much care for either presidential candidate or about the outcome. 
 That has all changed now, as both the war and the economy have piqued his interest, Mr. Pankownin, a registered independent, said. He added that he would vote for Mr. Kerry.
 ''I've never seen our economy worse in my 28 years of life,'' he said. ''I don't really even follow politics, but I know one thing. I'm worse off now than I was four years ago.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''I don't feel like I like being trapped into being a Republican or a Democrat,'' says Jerry Witham. (Photo by Greg Wahl-Stephens for The New York Times)Chart: ''A Fiercely Independent State''Oregon, which has one of the highest unemployment rates in the nation, is one of the most contested swing states, with a large number of independent-minded voters.VOTING RECORDMargin of victory in percentage points in past presidential electionsFollowing compares margin of victory in percentage points in past presidential elections for Oregon and U.S.2000REPUBLICAN:DEMOCRATIC: 0.4 POINT WIN1996REPUBLICAN:DEMOCRATIC: 81992REPUBLICAN:DEMOCRATIC: 101988REPUBLICAN:DEMOCRATIC: 51984REPUBLICAN: 12DEMOCRATIC:1980REPUBLICAN: 10DEMOCRATIC:1976REPUBLICAN: 0.2DEMOCRATIC:1972REPUBLICAN: 10DEMOCRATIC:1968REPUBLICAN: 6DEMOCRATIC:OREGON'S ECONOMYGraph tracks change in real household income versus year earlier from 1999 to 2003.Graph tracks change in median home price versus year earlier from 1999 to 2003.Graph tracks unemployment rate for United States and Oregon from 1999 to 2003.Graph tracks percentage without health insurance in United States and Oregon from 1997 to 2003.ELECTED OFFICIALSGOV.: DEM.SENATORS: DEM. and REP.REPRESENTATIVES: 1 DEM. 4 REP.DEMOGRAPHICSORE.WHITE: 84%BLACK: 2%HISPANIC: 8%ASIAN: 3%MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $42,429U.S.WHITE: 69BLACK: 12HISPANIC: 13ASIAN: 4MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 43,527HOW THE COUNTIES VOTED IN 2000In each county, squares are sized according to the total number of votes cast and shaded by the winning candidate.(Drawing by Matthew Ericson/The New York Times)(Sources by Dave Leip's Atlas of Presidential Elections
Economy.com
Bureau of Labor Statistics
National Association of Realtors
 Census Bureau)Map of Oregon highlighting how each county voted in 2000 election.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); MAYORS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); COUNTIES (73%); SUBURBS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Third-Party Moves (US); Surveys and Series; Labor; Unemployment; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (91%); JOHN KERRY (89%); RALPH NADER (79%); AL GORE (58%) Sarah Kershaw; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Theodore R (Gov) Kulongoski

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%) OREGON, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) Oregon

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004



595 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2853 words

HEADLINE: Across Asia, Beijing's Star Is in Ascendance

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: NEWMAN, Australia 

 BODY:
Chris Dunbar watched as a front-end loader carved into a 60-foot wall of iron ore glinting in the red dirt of a vast open mine in the big sky country of northwestern Australia. ''This is as good as it gets,'' said a satisfied Mr. Dunbar, 47, a manager with more than 20 years of experience.
 He was boasting about the richness of the blue-black ore at the Mount Whaleback mine, but he might as well have been bragging about the boom that has propelled economies across the Asia-Pacific region. These days, Australian engineers -- like executives, merchants and manufacturers elsewhere in the region -- cannot seem to work fast enough to satisfy the hunger of their biggest new customer: China.
 Not long ago Australia and China regarded each other with suspicion. But through newfound diplomatic finesse and the seemingly irresistible lure of its long economic expansion, Beijing has skillfully turned around relations with Australia, America's staunchest ally in the region. 
 The turnabout is just one sign of the broad new influence Beijing has accumulated across the Asian Pacific with American friends and foes alike. From the mines of Newman -- an outpost of 3,000 in a corner of the outback -- to theforests of Myanmar, the former Burma, China's rapid growth is sucking up resources and pulling the region's varied economies in its wake. The effect is unlike anything since the rise of Japanese economic power after World War II.
 For now, China's presence mostly translates into money, and the doors it opens. But more and more, China is leveraging its economic clout to support its political preferences.
 Beijing is pushing for regional political and economic groupings it can dominate, like a proposed East Asia Community that would cut out the United States and create a global bloc to rival the European Union. It is dispersing aid and, in ways not seen before, pressing countries to fall in line on its top foreign policy priority: its claim over Taiwan.
 China's higher profile is all the more striking, analysts, executives and diplomats say, as Washington's preoccupation with Iraq and terrorism has left it seemingly disengaged from the region, which in turn has found the United States more off-putting and harder to penetrate after Sept. 11.
 American military supremacy remains unquestioned, regional officials say. But the United States appears to be on the losing side of trade patterns. China is now South Korea's biggest trade partner, and two years ago Japan's imports from China surpassed those from the United States. Current trends show China is likely to top American trade with Southeast Asia in just a few years.
 China's prime minister, Wen Jiabao, as much as threw down the gauntlet last year, saying he believed that China's trade with Southeast Asia would reach $100 billion by 2005, just shy of the $120 billion in trade the United States does with the region.
 Mr. Wen's claim was no idle boast. Almost no country has escaped the pull of China's enormous craving for trade and, above all, energy and other natural resources to fuel its still galloping expansion and growing consumer demand. Though the Chinese government's growth target for 2004 is 7 percent, compared with 9.1 percent for 2003, few are worried about a slowdown soon.
 In Thailand, where the United States maintains its second largest embassy, Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, who is of ethnic Chinese descent, is considering building a pipeline across the southern Isthmus of Kra that would give China quicker access to Middle East oil.
 In Malaysia, where exports of gas, palm oil and midrange electronics to China have soared, the new prime minister, Abdullah Badawi, chose to make China his first major overseas visit. He was accompanied by 800 business executives.
 Chinese executives and diplomats, sensing the advantage that comes with one of the world's fastest-growing economies, have extended their reach to the point that China is increasingly seen as the go-to neighbor, diplomats and other analysts say. 
 Many here already contend the future belongs to China. A new generation of political and business leaders is placing its bets now on what is nearly universally seen as China's rise -- and hedging against a possible waning of American influence. 
 Even as America's position erodes, its policies -- on Iraq, North Korea, weapons proliferation -- have tended to push China and its neighbors together. Not least among the shared interests is a ''mutual concern about the unilateralism'' of current American policy, said Muhammad Noordin Sopiee, chairman of Malaysia's Institute of Strategic and International Studies.
 ''They need regional friendship, we need regional friendship,'' he said of the Chinese. ''They need time to develop their economy, so do we. They need protection from the United States and so do we.''
 ''Sometimes you see the glint of steel,'' he added of the Chinese approach, ''But they hide it. They want to be friends.''

An Embrace for Myanmar
 China's rapid gain in influence in the Asia Pacific region ranges so broadly that it can be measured at the extremes, in countries as divergent as rich and distant Australia and impoverished but strategically important Myanmar.
 The military government of Myanmar is no favorite of Washington. The Bush administration has tried since last year to use trade sanctions to coerce Myanmar's generals to share power and release the opposition leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, from house arrest. But the logic of the sanctions did not impress even a local Burmese restaurant owner on the road from Mandalay to China.
 With ceiling fans powered by scarce electricity whirring gently, he drew a rough map of Myanmar on a bare wood table top for a recent visitor. India, Thailand, Laos, China, he said pointing to the neighbors.
 ''As long as China remains friendly nothing will change,'' said the man, who did not want to be named for fear of Myanmar's ruthless military intelligence service. ''China can provide everything the country needs from a needle to a nuclear bomb.''
 China has in fact capsized Washington's policy with its own trade deals, which far outweigh the value of the American penalties. The State Department estimates that Myanmar lost about $200 million in the first year of the ban on imports to the United States. At the same time, it said, trade between China and Myanmar amounted to about $1 billion in 2003.
 Here is where economic leverage translates into political preference. For China, Myanmar provides is too important as a gateway to energy and other natural resources to be thrown overboard. Not only has China offset the American sanctions and kept Myanmar afloat with easy credit and trade, but it has taken Myanmar's military leaders under its wing.
 On a visit this spring to Myanmar's capital, Yangon, formerly Rangoon, China's deputy prime minister, Wu Yi, pledged to expand trade to $1.5 billion in 2005. In July, Myanmar's new prime minister, Khin Nyunt, paid an eight-day visit to China, where he was treated like an old friend. 
 He returned with a raft of accords on railways, a fertilizer factory and mine exploration, as well as $150 million loan for telecommunications and a $94 million rescheduling of debts -- relatively small amounts that show how easy it has become for China to serve as Myanmar's patron. 
 Chinese officials have also been willing to finance vital hydroelectric dam projects in the absence of lenders from anywhere else. And they recently proposed that a pipeline be built from Myanmar's west coast port of Sittwe to Kunming, the capital of China's southwestern Yunnan Province, allowing China more direct access to Middle East oil.
 Closer to the border, the trade is in smuggled teak, a wood prized for its beauty and durability by China's surging furniture manufacturers. The teak trade is as illustrative as any of the symbiotic relationship between the Chinese and Burmese authorities.
 ''China needs Burma's natural resources to fuel development on the border and in Yunnan Province as a whole,'' Simon Phillips, the author of a report on the trade published last year for Global Witness, a British nongovernmental organization, said in an interview.
 After China banned logging on its side of the border in 1998, Chinese companies moved their workers -- tens of thousands of them -- into Myanmar, he said. With the backing of political patrons in the Myanmar military, and in separatist militias, the loggers carried on their work with impunity.
 The benefits flow both ways. The provincial government in Kunming depends on the companies for revenue. On Myanmar's side, aside from the money lavished on local Burmese political patrons, there was the added advantage that the Chinese built roads. 
 One of the most important highways that China has helped improve is the main artery from the border to Mandalay, the old royal capital. These days, the traffic is varied. Huge trucks, many of them 40-year-old hulks with exposed engines, still haul outsized teak logs to China. Smaller vans, piled with crates of live crabs from Myanmar's Indian Ocean ports, ply a profitable 48-hour journey delivering delicacies for Chinese epicures. 
 From China, a vast assortment of cheap consumer goods for local markets comes down the road, particularly to Lashio. On a recent day, the city market was packed with Chinese electronics, clothes and food. 
 But local people, like the restaurant owner, who have watched the traffic flows, say they mostly go one way -- into China.
 ''Myanmar is the resource pit of China,'' the restaurant owner lamented. ''We send our best wood to them, our best gems, our best fruit. What do we get? Their worst fruit and their cheapest products.''

A Good Year for Australia
 For executives at BHP Billiton, the Australian giant that is the world's largest mining company and the operator of the Mount Whaleback mine, it has been a very good year. They will be the first to say that China has made all the difference.
 Profits were up nearly 80 percent, the company reported in August, much of the growth riding on new orders from the Chinese steel mills casting girders for the skyscrapers that dot China's urban expansion.
 Chinese diplomats talk of the natural fit between the two countries: last year China became the biggest importer of iron ore in the world, and Australia is its second biggest producer.
 With orders from China surging, BHP Billiton executives say they are opening mines and expanding their overburdened rail and shipping facilities at Port Hedland, on the northwest coast. On a recent day, no fewer than 13 ships waited to berth and load with ore for the 10-day journey to China.
 Doug Trotter, a project geologist who works at a new BHP Billiton mine called Area C, 100 miles east of Mount Whaleback, called that kind of demand ''job security.''
 ''They originally planned that this plant would produce four million tons of ore next year,'' he said. ''Instead, we expect to produce 20 million in 2005.''
 Even more of a bonanza is China's demand for natural gas, which Beijing says it will use to start replacing coal.
 At Karratha, another port south of Hedland, gas from 100 miles out at sea arrives through underwater pipes to be liquefied in a huge processing plant. Then, for the moment, it is pumped into a fleet of mammoth domed vessels for shipment to buyers like Japan and South Korea. China is the newest customer.
 In the richest trade deal in Australian history, sealed after Prime Minister John Howard personally lobbied officials in Beijing, the Chinese agreed to buy a 25-year supply of liquid natural gas from the Australian company Woodside Energy for $25 billion.
 The Australians beat Qatar and Indonesia in the bidding, even though their price was higher, because they could better guarantee a secure supply, said Lucio Della Martina, general manager for marketing at Woodside. 
 Huge as the deal was, negotiations are already under way for a still bigger deal -- valued at $30 billion -- for gas at a deposit called Gorgon, also off Western Australia.
 Whether natural gas or iron ore, Australian sensitivities about foreign ownership of natural resources have been outweighed by the sheer size of the Chinese contracts. Just as compelling is the eagerness among Chinese and Australian diplomats and executives to lock in a mutually beneficial relationship for the distant future.
 At BHP Billiton's headquarters in downtown Perth, where recent gifts from Chinese delegations are displayed along side older bearings from Japan and South Korea, Graeme Hunt, president of BHP Billiton's iron ore division, said the company had even invited Chinese mills to take a 40 percent stake in another iron ore mine, at Jimblebar, 30 miles east of Mount Whaleback.
 The Chinese mills, he said, want a secure long-term supply and signed on for 25 years for an estimated $9 billion of ore. A slowdown in the Chinese economy was not a worry, Mr. Hunt said.
 ''We're still very confident,'' he said. ''China is the fourth largest car producer in the world but most people still don't have a car. There's still a long way to go before the average Chinese person has all the material things of life.''

U.S. Friends Uneasy
 Just how American allies weigh their strategic relationship with America against the economic opportunities offered by China is fast becoming a front-burner issue. America's friends see a difficult balancing act ahead.
 Among the most nervous is Singapore. China publicly scolded the new prime minister of Singapore, Lee Hsien Loong, before his inauguration in August, for visiting Taiwan, where Singapore trains its soldiers, even though his father, Lee Kwan Yew, had visited Taiwan many times. China said it would delay trade talks as a punishment. 
 The gravity of the threat was not lost on Mr. Lee. In his first major speech in August, the new prime minister hastily reaffirmed Singapore's support for a ''one China'' policy on Taiwan, which Beijing considers a renegade province.
 For his part, Mr. Howard, the conservative Australian prime minister, boasted in August that one of his ''great successes'' was building a ''very close relationship'' with China while strengthening ties with Washington. He was proud, he said, that he had given symbolic parity to President Bush and the Chinese president, Hu Jintao, by arranging for them to speak on consecutive days before Parliament last fall, where Mr. Hu was given a warmer reception. 
 But there is also an underlying apprehension, which surfaced publicly for the first time in August. The Australian foreign minister, Alexander Downer, said Australia, which has been a stalwart American ally on Iraq, would have great reservations about joining the United States if a conflict broke out over Taiwan. Mr. Howard had to move quickly to set the record straight, dressing down his foreign minister by saying the remarks were ''completely hypothetical.'' 
 Some in the Howard government are beginning to worry that Australia may not long be able to have its cake and eat it too when it comes to China and Taiwan.
 Most countries in the region, like Thailand, are already on board with China's claim to sovereignty over Taiwan, and some in Australia worry that China is quickly chipping away at the last holdouts.
 In his speech to the Australian Parliament, the Chinese president urged Australia to help seek a solution to the Taiwan question -- a point interpreted here as pressing the country to choose between China and the United States on the issue. 
 Such crossroads loom even as the Chinese and Australian economies become increasingly intertwined. 
 Some high-level American officials warn that the United States is losing its once invulnerable position in Asia. James A. Kelly, the assistant secretary of state for East Asia and the Pacific, in unusually blunt testimony before Congress in June, listed Beijing's aggressive diplomatic moves and said they were being used to strengthen China's economic gains. 
 Even if American officials have trained most of their energies and attention elsewhere after 9/11, China's new generation of diplomats, like its ambassador to Australia, Fu Ying, are keenly attuned to the potential tug of competing allegiances, and seem prepared to plug any gaps.
 Mrs. Fu was sent to Canberra to lock in Australia's energy resources. She is succeeding, and noted that even while the economic relationship brings the two countries closer, differences remain.
 ''When you had this kind of relationship with Japan you were from the same side of the fence,'' she said in an interview in an influential Australian newspaper, The Sydney Morning Herald. ''No ideological barriers whatsoever. With China it is different.''
 ''Do you understand China that well?'' she asked. ''And does China understand Australia that well?''
 Those questions remain to be answered.

On the Web
 This is the first of three articles examining China's rising power in the Asia-Pacific region as it extends new economic, diplomatic and cultural ties. Audio from Jane Perlez and additional photographs are online at nytimes.com/international.


GRAPHIC: Photos: This new mine helps Australia meet China's demand for ore. (Photo by Regis Martin for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
China's is increasing trade with Myanmar, which is impoverished but strategically important. A truck is inspected at the border. (Photo by Nelson Ching for The New York Times)
The world's largest carrier of liquid natural gas at a plant at Karratha, Australia. China is Australia's newest gas customer. (Photo by Regis Martin for The New York Times)
Teak logs in China near Myanmar. After logging was banned by China, logging companies moved their workers to Myanmar. (Photo by Nelson Ching for The New York Times)
Prime Minister Khin Nyunt of Myanmar, right, on a visit to Beijing in July. (Photo by Andrew Wong/Reuters)(pg. A5)Chart: China's Appetite for Imports, and ExportsEconomic might in China can be seen in its vigorous trade with its neighbors, shown below in 1990 and 2003. Adjusted for inflation.Exports from ChinaMALAYSIA1990: $0.72003: $6.8THAILAND1990: $1.42003: $6.1MYANMAR1990: $0.22003: $1INDONESIA1990: $0.92003: $3AUSTRALIA1990: $1.52003: $10.3Imports to ChinaMALAYSIA1990: $0.82003: $12.7THAILAND1990: $0.42003: $5.7MYANMAR1990: $0.042003: $0.2INDONESIA1990: $1.12003: $3.8AUSTRALIA1990: $1.22003: $5.9(Sources by Institute for International Economics
 International Monetary Fund)(pg. A5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); TRENDS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); WORLD WAR II (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (63%); TERRORISM (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (53%) Jane B Perlez

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (97%); AUSTRALIA (96%); MYANMAR (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); THAILAND (92%); INDONESIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%) China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Australia; Myanmar; Japan

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2004



596 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: From Germany to New York, Dozens Fight Demolition of a Harlem Church

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
A hodgepodge of preservationists, neighborhood residents and even a stained-glass maker's descendant have waded into the fight to save St. Thomas the Apostle Church, a little-known architectural treasure in Harlem that faces demolition.
 Grasping at last-minute bureaucratic straws, the would-be saviors of the church have poured in their objections to the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
 ''The current proposal, to raze the church and the rectory and replace them with a multiunit housing development, would not only destroy an irreplaceable historic structure but greatly damage the surrounding neighborhood,'' wrote Simeon Bankoff, executive director of the Historic Districts Council, a city preservation group. ''On an environmental level, the aesthetic streetscape and neighborhood identity would suffer immensely from the removal of this building.'' 
 HUD has a say in the building's fate because the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York has asked it for a grant of nearly $7 million to build affordable housing for the elderly in its place. The church, on West 118th Street just off St. Nicholas Avenue, has been determined to be eligible for the New York State Register of Historic Places, and under federal law, HUD must first assess the effect of demolishing it.
 The agency will rely on the recommendation of New York State's Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation. HUD officials in New York said that without an agreement between the state office and the archdiocese, the funding request would not be sent to Washington -- a serious fly in the ointment in the archdiocese's plans. The HUD financing proposal is due on Sept. 15.
 The New York HUD office said it had also received impact statements from the Harlem Preservation Foundation; the New York Landmarks Conservancy; the St. Thomas the Apostle alumni association; a descendant of the original stained-glass making family, Mayer of Munich; the National Trust for Historic Preservation; a petition with 420 signatures; and about 20 letters from individuals.
 While exquisitely praised by architectural historians, the 1907 neo-Gothic church, with its graceful spires and rich Harlem history, does not have landmark status, and little could stop the archdiocese from tearing it down. But without money from HUD, it was not clear whether the archdiocese would move forward with the project.
 ''I'm not sure we'd have the funds for that,'' said Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman for the archdiocese. ''It's very hypothetical. We expect we will be approved for this project. We've spent a good deal of time examining our options. We feel this is the best way to proceed.''
 The archdiocese contends that with $5 million in needed repairs, a dwindling congregation and the need for low-income housing, it has no choice. However, preservationists and local residents dispute that. They point to an adjacent school, surrounding property and other financing plans. 
 ''This church is salvageable,'' said Peg Breen, president of the Landmarks Conservancy. ''We've seen a lot worse buildings and saved them.'' And she said the church's fate was a bellwether of how the archdiocese would handle other troubled churches.
 Indeed, the archdiocese has been engaged in a broad examination of where to put its resources amid a shifting Catholic population. It has said some churches in places like Manhattan, where they are densely concentrated, may have to close, and new ones would have to arise in burgeoning northern counties, like Dutchess and Rockland. 
 Another threatened church is St. Brigid's on the Lower East Side, one of the oldest in New York; it has been closed since 2001 because of structural damage, and its fate is undecided.
 In another way, the clash over St. Thomas is an example of a much larger struggle constantly played out in New York. 
 The city is filled with beautiful old buildings built to glorify God that become part of the warp and woof of the city streetscape, beloved places that neighborhood residents walk by (but maybe never enter) every day. They are part of the city's heart. 
 But all too often, they are not part of its soul. The congregations and denominations that own them feel they must put their social and spiritual missions before bricks, especially when buildings are empty of congregants or would suck up millions of scarce dollars to fix and maintain -- money that can help the poor or go to new church buildings where believers need them.
 Mr. Zwilling said one of Cardinal Edward M. Egan's priorities was to build low-cost housing for the poor. But opponents of the demolition have criticized the cardinal, who came to the archdiocese in 2001 with a major goal of fixing its ailing finances, for being unresponsive. Mr. Bankoff noted that Rome and Chicago, where the cardinal spent many years, has ''incredibly important'' architecture. ''I can only hope he would recognize that St. Thomas is equally beautiful and equally precious.''
 Eric V. Tait Jr., a filmmaker who has campaigned tirelessly for St. Thomas and attended its school, said the church was an important part of black culture. In a letter to the state preservation office, he referred to a letter sent by Gabriel Mayer of Munich, a descendant of the church's stained-glass maker. ''To deny future generations of south central Harlem this visible symbol of their unique pride, culture and history is not only unconscionable'' Mr. Tait wrote, ''but to quote Mr. Mayer again: 'The demolition of St. Thomas the Apostle Church would be a barbaric act, and no economic interest could excuse such wrongdoing.'''
 Yesterday, all was quiet at the scaffold-shrouded church. A row of serious-looking angel faces on the facade seemed to stare down into the sidewalk bridge. 
 Limited demolition work, which included the removal of a cross and several spires on the facade, angered preservationists because the review was still under way. The city stopped the work on Aug. 18 because of problems with the scaffolding permit. The archdiocese has not applied for a full demolition permit, and said it was only shoring up damaged sections.
 Kelvin Brown, 48, stood outside after sweeping the front stairs. He said he has lived on the block his whole life and loves the church, even though he is not Catholic. 
 ''I hope they can save it,'' he said. ''What's $5 million to the Catholic Church? I understand they have a lot of scandals, but don't take it out on us.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The archdiocese has proposed the demolition of St. Thomas the Apostle in Harlem, citing a lack of money for needed repairs. The site would be replaced with affordable multiunit housing for the elderly. (Photo by David Dunlap/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CITIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORY (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); GLASS MFG (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); PUBLIC HOUSING (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); APPROVALS (71%); AGING (67%); ALUMNI (64%); PETITIONS (61%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (50%) Historic Buildings and Sites; Housing; Aged; Demolition

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (83%) Roman Catholic Church; Housing and Urban Development Department; St Thomas the Apostle Church (NYC); Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: Daniel J Wakin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (87%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2004



597 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Police Union Joins Opponents Of West Side Stadium Project

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
The union representing New York City's police officers has joined with opponents of a football stadium on the West Side to create a television advertisement that seeks to block the project.
 The union, the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, has been locked in contentious contract talks with the Bloomberg administration over raises and other benefits. In recent weeks, off-duty officers have held rallies, posted billboards and even shouted at Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at his public appearances.
 While the union has previously opposed the stadium, which is a pet project of the Bloomberg administration, this is the first time that it has collaborated with the New York Association for Better Choices, a group of elected officials, residents and businesses fighting the project. The group includes Cablevision, which owns Madison Square Garden. 
 The advertisement, which was paid for entirely by Cablevision, began airing last night on NY1 and other local channels. Whit Clay, a spokesman for the association, declined to say how much it cost, or how long it would run.
 In the 30-second spot, ''Cops,'' police officers are shown helping children and working at crime scenes, while a narrator says that ''they risk their lives every day, they're there when it matters,'' in the face of declining recruitment for a force that is smaller than it was four years ago.
 The narrator concludes: ''Now comes a proposal to spend $600 million on a football stadium in Manhattan -- that's the wrong priority. Paying to build a police force is more important than paying to build a football stadium.''
 Edward Skyler, the mayor's press secretary, said that the ad was misleading and sought to confuse the issues. He said that money for the stadium construction, and money for the police union contracts, came from separate funds that could not be interchanged. ''It's illegal to pay city salaries out of the capital budget, so they're misinformed or downright lying,'' he said.
 Patrick J. Lynch, president of the Patrolman's Benevolent Association, said that the union had agreed to do the television ad as part of a ''strategic move to get our message out by joining with like-minded people.'' He said that the union had previously objected to the stadium on a billboard in Times Square.
 ''It's absolutely hypocritical to say they can't find money for the people who keep us safe, but they can find money to build a stadium to play games,'' Mr. Lynch said. ''Both our messages are the same: Do what's right for New York City.''
 Mr. Skyler criticized the police union for opposing an economic development project that he said would generate tax revenues that could pay for the very raises that the union wants while creating new jobs. 
 Matthew Higgins, a spokesman for the New York Jets, which would use the stadium, criticized the alliance between the police union and Cablevision. He suggested that if Mr. Lynch wanted to look out for his officers, ''he should demand Cablevision start paying millions in taxes on the Garden to fund the raises he wants, and he should support a project that will create income for hundreds of on- and off-duty police officers.''
 Al O'Leary, a spokesman for the union, said that the new ad would help reinforce the union's message to the public that the city's police officers deserved to be paid a fair salary. He said that union officials were not concerned about whether the ad would anger the mayor.
 ''We have only one interest here,'' he said. ''And that is to get a fair contract for our police officers who can't afford to live in the city they protect.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); POLICE FORCES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (69%); BUDGETS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Football; Area Planning and Renewal; Advertising and Marketing; Police; Wages and Salaries; Stadiums and Arenas; Football

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (59%) New York Jets; Patrolmen's Benevolent Assn

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Winnie Hu

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; West Side (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2004



598 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 36 words

 BODY:

The dollar rose against the euro after a report that the gross domestic product grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the quarter, slower than estimated earlier. In New York, the euro settled at $1.2016, down from $1.2115.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since March 2003. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); US DOLLAR (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%) Currency

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (77%); CANADA (74%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2004



599 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Growth Pace for 2nd Quarter Is Revised Downward, to 2.8%

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate from April through June, slower than the government estimated last month, as higher oil prices limited consumer spending and contributed to a record trade deficit, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. 
 Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services produced, was the weakest in more than a year and lower than the 3 percent annual pace previously reported. 
 In another report, consumer confidence fell in August, a University of Michigan survey showed. 
 Oil prices approached $50 a barrel last week, prompting some economists to trim second-half growth forecasts on expectations that higher fuel bills would reduce demand for other goods. Consumer spending in the second quarter grew at the weakest pace since the recession in 2001.
 The University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment dropped to 95.9 this month from 96.7 in July, a smaller decline than predicted. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was for the drop to match a preliminary reading of 94 on Aug. 13. 
 The gross domestic product was also higher than the median estimate of 2.7 percent. The growth, which followed a 4.5 percent increase at an annual rate in the first quarter, was higher than forecast partly because of revisions to both business and consumer spending. 
 Business investment in equipment and software was revised up in the quarter to the strongest pace since the third quarter of last year. Consumer spending was also revised, to a 1.6 percent annual rate, from 1 percent, while remaining below the 4.1 percent rate of the year's first three months. Corporate profits after taxes for the quarter rose 17.9 percent in the 12 months ended in June. 
 A measure of inflation tied to consumer spending slowed. The core personal consumption expenditures index, which excludes food and energy, rose at a 1.7 percent annual rate in the second quarter, down from the 1.8 percent rise initially reported and the 2.1 percent pace in the first three months. 
 The measure is closely watched by Federal Reserve policy makers and is within their forecast of 1.5 percent to 2 percent for the year. 
 Adjusted for inflation, gross domestic product totaled $10.8 trillion in the second quarter, measured at an annual rate. Unadjusted, gross domestic product rose at a 6.1 percent annual rate, and totaled $11.6 trillion, after rising at a 7.4 percent pace in the first quarter. 
 The nation's deficit in goods and service reached $55.8 billion in June as companies imported more higher-priced crude oil and as exports declined. For the second quarter, the deficit widened to $588.7 billion, from the $552.8 billion the government initially estimated. It was $550.1 billion in the first three months of the year. 
 Business fixed investment, which includes spending on commercial construction as well as equipment and software, grew at a 12.1 percent annual rate in the second quarter, compared with the 8.9 percent rate initially reported and a 4.2 percent pace in the first quarter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (73%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%) United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) Commerce Department; University of Michigan

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2004



600 of 697 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-7

Iraqi Rebels Vacate Shrine Under Dubious Calm
An uneasy peace settled in Najaf as guerrillas loyal to the insurgent cleric Moktada al-Sadr streamed out of the Imam Ali Shrine before a cordon of American troops, ceding control of the Shiite holy site to the mainstream religious leader, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani. A1

Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, in his first public comments on two major investigative reports, incorrectly said there was no evidence that prisoners were abused during interrogations. A6

Russia Disaster Labeled Terror
Russian investigators found traces of an explosive in the wreckage of one of the two passenger airliners that crashed simultaneously on Tuesday, and the downing was declared a terrorist act. An Islamic extremist group claimed that its fighters had hijacked the planes to avenge the deaths of Muslims in Chechnya and elsewhere. A1

3 Injured in Anti-Powell Protest
At least three people were injured when police fired tear gas and sparred with rock-throwing demonstrators during a rally to protest a visit of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. The protest was the first disturbance in Athens during the Summer Olympics. A7

Jailed Palestinian Hunger Strike
Several thousand Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails are on their 13th day of a hunger strike, but their protest has not inspired great public support and Israeli officials insist that the effort is beginning to founder. The strike is based on the need to improve conditions, limit strip searches, and ensure more contact with families. A3

High Afghan Voter Registration
The high voter registration in Afghanistan has been celebrated as a sign of the thirst for democracy as the election draws closer. Others say multiple registrations could undermine the election's credibility, with many Afghans admitting that it has dented their confidence. A7

NATIONAL A8-13,16

Espionage Investigation Focuses on Pentagon
The F.B.I. is investigating a Pentagon official on suspicion of passing secrets to Israel, according to government officials. The agency has gathered evidence that the Pentagon official passed classified policy documents to officials at a pro-Israeli lobbying group, who passed the information to Israeli intelligence. A13

Plan for Hybrid Cars
Aides to Arnold Schwarzenegger say he will sign legislation that could allow up to 75,000 drivers of fuel efficient gas-electric cars, mainly those behind the wheel of a Toyota Prius, to use car pool lanes when taking to the road alone. A8

G.O.P. to Spare No Expense
The Republican National Convention in New York will be more lavish than the Democratic bash in Boston -- from a party for hundreds at the Temple of Dendur in the Metropolitan Museum of Art to intimate gatherings high above Fifth Avenue. A11

The union that represents air traffic controllers said that the security put in place for the Republican National Convention in New York might cause airline delays next week because of staff shortages. A9

Kerry Adds $6 Million to Bank
Senator John Kerry pulled into the political piggy bank that is California and picked up $6 million for the Democratic National Committee. A11

Tribunal and Lawyers at Odds
The opening week of hearings in the war crimes trials being conducted in Guantanamo Bay ended with disputes over a longstanding complaint from the military defense lawyers: they have gone into the fight outgunned by the prosecutors. A13

Florida Readies for Primary
As Florida prepares for its primary, all eyes are on Theresa LePore, the Palm Beach County official who designed the infamous ''butterfly ballot'' that contributed to the 2000 presidential election standoff. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

100 Cyclists Are Arrested As 5,000 Ride in Protest
Five thousand cyclists rode through Manhattan in a Republican-bashing, environment-promoting display that ended when more than 100 were arrested. B1

Four protesters who rappelled down the Plaza Hotel were met with congratulations and pleasantries by other protesters outside the Manhattan Criminal Court after spending 25 hours in jail. B5

Dozens Rally to Save Church
A hodgepodge of would-be saviors have waded into the fight to save St. Thomas the Apostle Church, a little-known architectural treasure in Harlem that faces demolition. B3

Religion Journal B6

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-11

U.S. Women Lose Relay
Jamaica won the 4 x 100 meter relay after a botched baton handoff between Americans Lauryn Williams and Marion Jones. D1

Gymnastics Gold Medal Dispute
The president of the International Gymnastics Federation asked the American Paul Hamm to give up his gold medal after the federation determined there had been a scoring error when the silver medalist, Yang Tae Young of South Korea, competed. The United States Olympic Committee expressed outrage, calling the letter an attempt to deflect the federation's responsibility for the error. D1

OBITUARIES A13

ARTS & IDEAS B7-16

Exhaustion by Politics
Democratic activists are asking celebrities to lend their time to campaigning at a level political advisers say they have never seen. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Fed Chief Warns About Costs
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, warned that the federal government might have to scale back promises to the elderly in programs like Social Security and Medicare. C1

AT&T's Internet Phone Plan
AT&T, which is getting out of the business of providing traditional phone service to consumers, is pushing its Internet phone plan, CallVantage, in hopes of making up for its faltering long-distance operation. C1

Crude Oil Prices Drop
The price of crude oil dropped almost 8 percent, its biggest decline since April 2003, amid signs that some speculators, who had helped push the price close to $50 a barrel, have begun to bail out. C1

Stocks Rise Slightly
The Dow Jones industrial average increased 21.60 points, to 10,195.01; 84.87 points above last week's close. The Nasdaq composite index rose 9.17 points, to 1,862.09; 24.08 points higher than last week's close. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Economic reality bites; lessons of Najaf; the real gymnastics losers; beware of tinkering lawmakers.

Column: David Brooks.

Bridge B12
TV Listings B16
Crossword B12
Weather D12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (92%); RELIGION (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); LOBBYING (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); RIOTS (75%); PRISONS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); AIRLINES (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); ESPIONAGE (67%); OLYMPICS (66%); HYBRID VEHICLES (65%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (64%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2004

 
