

401 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Saddam's Past, Iraq's Future 

BYLINE:  By Phebe Marr; Phebe Marr is author of "The Modern History of Iraq."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For decades Iraq was held together by the outsized personality of Saddam Hussein and his grandiose vision of Iraq's role in the Arab world. But while Mr. Hussein has passed from the scene, his vision of Iraq may linger. The future of Iraq may well depend on how Iraqis and their American overseers respond to the dream Mr. Hussein created but never realized.
 The capture of Mr. Hussein is a hopeful development for Iraq and the rest of the world. For Americans, it is a great military success that may help quiet international criticism of their role in Iraq. For Iraqis, it is an occasion for joy and relief that allows them to go about the task of remaking their nation with far less fear of reprisal. 
 What kind of state the Iraqis will build remains to be seen. But with Mr. Hussein's capture, a decades-long Arab experiment with "republican" dynasties may be at an end. Such governments were the outgrowth of revolutionary leaders and army officers who overthrew hereditary monarchies after World War II, only to entrench their families or cronies in power for another generation. No single authoritarian leader is likely to emerge to take Mr. Hussein's place in the power struggle now under way. 
Elsewhere the practice continues. In Syria the government is headed by Bashar al-Assad, son of the Baath general who won a struggle with his ideological adversaries in 1970 and ruled Syria for 30 years until his death in 2000, and then arranged for his son to succeed him. In Egypt, the first successful Arab nationalist leader, Gamal Abdel Nasser, ruled for 18 years and then kept leadership in the military by passing on power to Anwar el-Sadat and then, after his death in 1981, to Hosni Mubarak, both military officers. Mr. Mubarak has refused to name a vice president and is thought to be grooming his son for succession.
Of these revolutionary dynasties, Mr. Hussein's was the worst. It is unquestionably gone for good, and his ignominious end may help discredit the others. If the new government in Iraq is not successful in stabilizing power, however, it could give authoritarianism a new lease on life.
Likewise, Mr. Hussein's capture also symbolizes the passing of the cold-war era of revolutionary Arab nationalism. The wellspring of this ideology was a commitment to pan-Arab unity. Gradually this pan-Arabism gave way to state-centered interests in countries like Egypt, Iraq and Syria, although the rhetoric of pan-Arabism continues to inflame politics in the Middle East.
In Iraq after 1968, Mr. Hussein used this ideology to build a powerful totalitarian state, backed by oil resources. However, he soon modified the ideology to suit his purposes: he emphasized making Iraq a leader of the Arab world. Seduced by his own power and rhetoric, Mr. Hussein soon began the overreach that brought on a succession of disasters: the Iran-Iraq war in the 1980's; the Gulf war and a decade of sanctions and economic decline in the 1990's; and in 2003 a loss of Iraq's independence. His humiliating capture at the hands of an occupying force is a monumental symbol of the failure of this system.
But Mr. Hussein and his Baath rule left a third legacy in Iraq -- and here the prognosis for an end to the era is murkier. For decades, the Iraqi state was dominated by an Arab Sunni minority, cloaked in a Baath vision that appealed to wider elements of the Iraqi population. This vision was based not only on an Arab identity and an Iraqi role in the Arab world, but on a secular model of modernization.
In its early years in power, the Baath Party oversaw rapid economic development, a broad distribution of wealth, greater social mobility and the fostering of an educated middle class. While these goals came at a high cost, they still resonate with many in the educated middle class on which the regime lavished so much attention. Not surprisingly, this middle class came to consider itself a privileged elite, entitled to govern.
This class, already displaced, is still there -- as is its feelings of alienation. Some of those barred from power (the army, the upper reaches of the party) may have joined the insurgency, but others, used to running the government and its social institutions, are waiting to see what happens. Some way must be found to give these Iraqis a stake in the new order. Otherwise their frustration and ability to create mischief will remain.
Iraq now faces the task of creating a new vision for itself -- in fact, a whole new cultural and political identity to replace the old Arab nationalist ideal. This will not be easy. One such vision, familiar but never successful, calls for an inward-looking identity that focuses on Iraqi citizens. This vision would de-emphasize Iraq's role in the Arab world. It could also mean better relations with Iraq's two large non-Arab neighbors, Turkey and Iran.
Such a vision would focus on developing Iraq's resources, encouraging prosperity and bolstering Iraq's weakened middle class. It appeals to both Shiites and Kurds, but here, too, Mr. Hussein has left a mixed legacy. Domination of government, especially in the last decade, by a narrow group of Sunni clansmen has alienated Shiites and Kurds. The Kurds now have an alternative vision of self-rule and an identity that encompasses Kurdish communities in Turkey, Iran and Syria. Their self-rule, which has been ongoing for more than a decade in northern Iraq, makes it more difficult to reintegrate the Kurds into the Iraqi body politic.
The Shiites, meanwhile, have gone through a period of religious revival, encouraged by the Islamic revolution in Iran. Some Shiites (as well as some Sunnis) will want more emphasis on religion and Islamic law in the new Iraq.
Whatever new vision emerges, it will have to take account of a radical redistribution of power in the new Iraqi state. The 25-member Iraqi Governing Council, which includes a majority of Shiites, numerous Kurds and an Arab Sunni minority of five, may already be helping to define this new structure. The Arab nationalist orientation in the media and the education system will also have to change.
But if the new order is to succeed, a new definition of what it means to be Iraqi must be put forth -- by Iraqis. Given the fractious nature of Iraq's leadership, the divisions in its society and competing visions of its future, this will be difficult and time-consuming. If Iraq's new governing structures cannot deliver services and security, Iraqis will not support it.
Mr. Hussein has gone, but not the class he helped create. It is out of power, but not yet dead. Also alive is a strong current of nationalism that is manifest in a long-standing desire for independence and a dislike of foreign influence -- to say nothing of foreign rule. These thwarted aspirations will be aided and abetted by disgruntled Arabs in neighboring states opposed to the war and occupation. Without an effective transition to new government and the inclusion of middle-class elements of the Arab Sunni population, this class will not only continue to feed the insurgency but may hinder the creation of a new Iraq.
The capture of Mr. Hussein may signify the end of one era but it does not yet mean the beginning of a new one. A democratic and responsive Iraq, with power diffused among various communities and focused mainly on the welfare of its citizens, would not only be a positive development but a revolutionary one.
There should be few illusions. Desirable as the goal may be, it will take years to achieve, and the outcome will depend not only on Iraqis, but on American skill, understanding and staying power. Otherwise, the capture of Saddam Hussein may be little more than the latest chapter of a long-running tragedy.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Edel Rodriguez) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (87%); ARMIES (76%); COLD WAR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); WORLD WAR II (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (94%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); HOSNI MUBARAK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); SYRIA (93%); EGYPT (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



402 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Bid for New York Magazine: A Dance of Moneyand Ego 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CARR 

 BODY:
It is a measure of the allure of New York magazine that a group of cold-eyed, wealthy executives is prepared to hold hands and jointly contribute more than $50 million to buy a publication that has made little money in the last three years for Primedia Inc.
 The group -- led by Mortimer B. Zuckerman, owner of The Daily News and U.S. News & World Report -- is the presumptive favorite after "best and final" bids were delivered on Thursday, in part because Henry R. Kravis of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, the principal owner of Primedia, is interested in selling New York magazine to him. 
 For connoisseurs of New York power, the combustible mix of personalities and agendas forming around Mr. Zuckerman promises plenty of fireworks. 
 There are many precedents for monied individuals uniting to acquire trophy assets -- sports teams, restaurants, racehorses -- but a city magazine with a history of deconstructing and occasionally torturing Manhattan elites is a more delicate proposition. Each member of the Zuckerman consortium is hard-wired into New York business or culture, with interests including real estate, advertising, entertainment and Wall Street -- in other words, almost everything New York magazine writes about. 
 It is hard to imagine an article that would not touch on a family member, a business partner, a friend or a foe of the Zuckerman-led group. If the bid succeeds, the editor of the magazine could be so busy taking calls from his or her ownership group that just getting the magazine out could be difficult.
 Mr. Zuckerman's group includes Nelson Peltz, a billionaire investor whose Triarc Companies owns Arby's restaurants; Jeffrey Epstein, a money manager with his own claim to the billionaires club; Donnie Deutsch, chief executive of Deutsch Inc., who sold the advertising agency for hundreds of millions of dollars several years ago; and Harvey Weinstein, co-chairman of Miramax films. 
 James L. Dolan, chief executive of Cablevision Systems, the owner of the cable television provider as well as Madison Square Garden, the New York Knicks and the New York Rangers, is no longer a part of the current bid. But Cablevision maintains an interest in the magazine's Web site, and other members of the group say he may come in later. 
 Because New York is something of a hybrid, a regional magazine with a national footprint, there was little interest from major publishers, and the low level of recent profits made it difficult for any purely financial players to find backing for a bid. The only other bona fide contender is American Media, which includes tabloid newspapers like The National Enquirer and enthusiast magazines like Shape. But difficulties in its core businesses made its backers reluctant to bid high to add another property.
 That makes the Zuckerman consortium the likely new owner of New York, a magazine that is considered the forerunner of today's prototype city publication. Talents like the founding editor, Clay Felker, and writers like Tom Wolfe and Norman Mailer made the magazine an influential political and cultural presence.
 Under a limited-partnership agreement that was signed on Thursday, Mr. Zuckerman is the general partner by dint of the strategic assets he brings to the business -- the daily newspaper in New York and the weekly magazine. He convinced others who had both the ego and the assets to make a play for the magazine that joining him was the surest way of being in the picture when it was sold. The other partners are supposedly silent, but given their histories they are not men prone to minding their manners on the sidelines of a business.
 (The recent dissolution of YankeeNets, the pairing of George Steinbrenner's New York Yankees and the New Jersey Nets owned by a group that operates under the umbrella of the Community Youth Organization, is one of many examples of the perils of partnership among titans.) 
 "The principal issue is that if everybody is looking to get something different out of it and each has a clearly defined role, then it tends to work," said Paul J. Taubman, a merger banker at Morgan Stanley who has put together deals for professional sports teams involving several wealthy parties. "If they are all trying to get the same thing out of it, that makes it a lot more challenging."
 Robert Marston, founder and chief executive of Robert Marston & Associates, a public relations firm, said that all the talent and money in this single bid would take some sorting out.
 "Virtually all of the players in this contest are individuals of exceptional accomplishment, with significant expertise in business and a deep understanding of the media," Mr. Marston said. "The question that remains, however, is how will these titans work together and who among them will be willing to devote the time required to turn around the magazine. And who among these bosses is likely to emerge as the true boss, given all the egos and talent involved?"
 A recent instance of monied individuals backing a media property, The New York Sun, offers the Zuckerman-led group an encouraging precedent. But the owners of The Sun, a 20-month-old, five-day-a-week newspaper in New York, are bound together by a conservative political agenda that makes it easier to keep the cats herded.
 "At The Sun, there is a spiritual tie that binds the partners," said Michael Steinhardt, one of the principals. "It is being done for reasons well beyond the economic, and I am not so sure that is the case with New York magazine." 
 Michael Wolff, the media columnist for New York who played a role in organizing the bid and who may have a supervisory editorial role if it is successful, said that while the bid had its complications, it also had enormous possibilities.
 "There are people who buy trophy assets because it gives them a certain sort of cachet, to be part of the group," he said. "I am reasonably confident that we are going to own this magazine, and if we do, it will give the magazine incredible, undreamed-of access to the kinds of circles that it should be a part of."
 Such access carries its own complications. Each of the investors has his own circle of influence and friends, and could reasonably expect that those constituencies would be looked after by the magazine. Kurt Andersen, the radio host and author who was editor of New York in the mid-1990's, has said he was fired after coming into conflict with Mr. Kravis of Kohlberg Kravis, in part because of the magazine's coverage of Wall Street. He notes that he was ousted even though the magazine had a separate corporate identity as part of Primedia.
 "There is no intermediary in this new scenario," Mr. Andersen said. "Henry Kravis was the investor, but for a time Primedia was there as a protective shield."
 "In this case, you not only have a whole bunch of them, but no corporate wall," he said. "Who is going to be the go-to guy to protect the editor from all the billionaires? The pressure will be fivefold." 
 For New York magazine to be noticed, its potential owners acknowledge that it should be independent, at least in theory. "We are all grown-ups and know that the magazine should and will bruise some egos and some feelings," said one person, who refused to be identified, citing confidentiality requirements of the bidding process.
 The magazine will also put a dent in new owners' wallets. The magazine, which last year had a profit of $1 million to $2 million on revenue of slightly more than $43 million, has been starved of editorial and circulation investment the last few years. So on top of the $50-million-plus purchase price, the winners of the auction can expect to share the costs of significant new investments in the next few years. One of the bidders suggested that any successful suitor for the magazine can expect to invest $10 million to $15 million in the first three years just to stabilize the property.
 "There aren't many examples out there of a group coming together like this," said Roland DeSilva, managing partner of DeSilva & Phillips, a media investment banking firm. "The agenda for all of them has to be New York City, not just New York magazine. It is the financial, social and cultural capital of the world. Their investment is not just about a magazine."

GRAPHIC: Photos: New York magazine keeps watch on the city's movers and shakers. From left, Harvey Weinstein, co-chairman of Miramax; Dan Klores, a public relations executive; and Mortimer B. Zuckerman, owner of The Daily News and other publications. (Photo by Dimitrios Kambouris/WireImage.com)(pg. C1); From left, Nelson Peltz and Jeffrey Epstein are members of a group seeking to buy New York magazine, as is Donny Deutsch, second from right. Michael Wolff, center, media columnist for the magazine, has helped organize the bid. James L. Dolan, right, is no longer involved in the bidding. (pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); PUBLISHING (73%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (67%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (66%) MAGAZINES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MAGAZINE (94%); PRIMEDIA INC (84%); KKR & CO LP (83%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (72%); WENDY'S CO (66%); DEUTSCH INC (65%)

ORGANIZATION: PRIMEDIA INC; NEW YORK (MAGAZINE) 

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (83%); WEN (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (66%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (66%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%)

PERSON: HARVEY WEINSTEIN (65%); HENRY KRAVIS (55%); JAMES L DOLAN (50%) PELTZ, NELSON; EPSTEIN, JEFFREY; DEUTSCH, DONNY; WEINSTEIN, HARVEY; WOLFF, MICHAEL; CARR, DAVID; ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



403 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: THE CAPTURE OF HUSSEIN: EX-DICTATOR; 
HUSSEIN CAUGHT IN MAKESHIFT HIDE-OUT; BUSH SAYS 'DARK ERA' FOR IRAQIS IS OVER

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
Saddam Hussein, once the all-powerful leader of Iraq, was arrested without a fight on Saturday night by American soldiers who found him crouching in an eight-foot hole at an isolated farm near Tikrit, haggard, dirty and disoriented after eluding capture for nearly nine months. 
 News of Mr. Hussein's arrest, announced Sunday after being kept secret for 18 hours, electrified Iraq and much of the world, sending joyous Iraqis into the streets with the first real catharsis of liberation since the invasion toppled him in April. 
 For the Bush administration, which has been struggling to stabilize Iraq, the capture of Mr. Hussein was the most triumphal moment since American forces ousted him. 
"In the history of Iraq, a dark and painful era is over," President Bush said in a televised noontime address from Washington. "A hopeful day has arrived. All Iraqis can now come together and reject violence and build a new Iraq." But Mr. Bush was careful to couch his message with caution that Iraq remains violent and dangerous. 
American officials said Mr. Hussein was being held in Iraq, but they would not disclose the exact location. They said he had been unresistant in medical tests and other procedures but was not cooperating with interrogators on substantive matters. 
American-appointed Iraqi leaders said he would eventually face a war crimes trial, but it was unclear when.
Maj. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, commander of the Fourth Infantry Division, which captured Mr. Hussein with a force of 600 soldiers, said he was armed with only a pistol and had surrendered without firing a shot. Two AK-47 rifles and $750,000 in American cash were found nearby.
It was an ignominious ending for Mr. Hussein, 66, who survived American attempts to kill him during the invasion and had eluded capture apparently by moving from one dingy hide-out to another. 
Whether his arrest will undermine the insurgency against the American-led forces in Iraq is unclear. Hours after his capture but before it was announced publicly, a car bomb killed at least 17 people in a town west of Baghdad. Page A16. 
Even in hiding, Mr. Hussein had inspired such fear and held such a grip on his country's imagination that several Iraqis wept openly and screamed for revenge when they caught sight of him, looking like a disheveled vagrant, on an American-made videotape at a news conference on Sunday.
American officials, as well as members of the Iraqi Governing Council, described the captive Mr. Hussein as a talkative man who seemed alternately resigned to his fate and belligerently defensive about his 35 years in power.
"He was unrepentant and even defiant," said Adnan Pachachi, the elder statesman of the Iraqi Governing Council and one of four Iraqi leaders ferried by helicopter on Sunday to see their nemesis in person.
"He tried to justify himself by saying he was a just and firm ruler, Mr. Pachachi said. "And of course, our answer was that he was an unjust ruler responsible for the deaths of thousands of people." 
Pentagon officials said Mr. Hussein's identity had been confirmed by old bullet wounds and by other Iraqis who saw him. 
The Army raid on Mr. Hussein's hide-out was organized in the space of a few hours, after officers received information about his whereabouts about 11 a.m. Saturday from a person with ties to Mr. Hussein's family, General Odierno said.
The general did not identify the informant, but said it was one of 5 to 10 people with family and tribal connections to Mr. Hussein who had been detained in the last week and a half. 
Other military officials in Tikrit, where the general spoke, said American troops had searched the same farm about two weeks earlier.
General Odierno said his troops had to move swiftly to seal off the area around the remote farm, situated near the village of Ad Dwar about nine miles southeast of Tikrit, because Mr. Hussein had been believed to be changing hiding places as frequently as every three hours.
Tikrit was a strong political and social base for Mr. Hussein. He recruited many of his top army, intelligence and Baath Party commanders from the Tikrit tribes. The city and the area around it have also been the scene of persistent attacks on American forces and Iraqi police officers. 
With the former Iraqi leader in American custody and most other Iraqis presumably persuaded that he can never return to power, the process of preparing Iraq for independence next summer enters a new phase where public attention turns to the political future. Iraqi political leaders, selected by the American-led occupation authority, may now find themselves under greater pressure to meet the expectations of an impatient public for prosperity and democracy. 
The Governing Council members stepped into the limelight shortly after news of Mr. Hussein's capture was broadcast on Iraqi television. Peppered with questions from Iraqi journalists, they promised that the former president, accused of mass executions and using chemical weapons on his own people, would eventually face trial in Iraq on charges of crimes against humanity. 
"Now that the Saddam era is over, we'll have reconciliation," Mr. Pachachi said. "We need to build a free, safe, democratic Iraq that respects human rights. We're looking to the future, but that doesn't mean we won't punish the criminals."
But Lt. Gen. Ricardo Sanchez, commander of the allied forces in Iraq, said he could not predict when Mr. Hussein would be turned over to the Iraqis for trial because he would be interrogated. "How long?" the general said. "As long as it takes for us to get the information we need."
Only last week, the Iraqi council decided to create an all-Iraqi war crimes tribunal to prosecute members of the former government deemed responsible for mass killings. 
Mr. Hussein was the most wanted man on a list of 55 former government officials that American and allied forces have been hunting. Forty have already been captured or, as in the case of Mr. Hussein's sons Uday and Qusay, killed. 
Saddam Hussein had a bounty of $25 million on his head, offered by the Bush administration. It was not clear whether anyone would collect the reward money, as a tipster did after leading American troops to the Mosul hideout of Mr. Hussein's sons this summer. General Sanchez said he could not say whether any money would be paid. 
Military officials said they did not know how long Mr. Hussein had been at the remote farm. He apparently lived in a small hut, with just a bedroom and a rudimentary kitchen, that was situated on a small plot of land surrounded by a low wall. 
The underground crawl space, equipped with a ventilation pipe and a small fan, was in front of the hut. The little compound was close to the Tigris River, General Odierno said, and several boats were found on the riverside.
The general said Mr. Hussein might have had as many as 30 similar hiding places around the country.
As a fugitive, Mr. Hussein had issued several recorded messages taunting the people who cooperated with the American-led occupation, calling them traitors and urging Iraqis to kill foreign soldiers and their own government officials alike.
But American commanders have said they did not know whether Mr. Hussein played a role in financing, planning or coordinating the guerrilla attacks and bombings that have killed more than 190 soldiers since President Bush declared the official end of hostilities on May 1. 
General Sanchez said those answers might come during the interrogation of Mr. Hussein. He expressed doubt that the attacks would end with his capture, but said Iraqis might now be more willing to help in the hunt for insurgents now that the specter of their old leader's return had been eliminated.
"With the cooperation of all the Iraqi people and our coalition," he said, "I believe that we are now much closer to a safe and secure environment here in all the country." 
But experts on terrorism and insurgencies said that the effect of Mr. Hussein's capture was still unclear, and that much support for guerrillas could be related to dissatisfaction with the economic situation. 
So little is known about the guerrillas, they added, that officials do not know how many are waging war out of loyalty to Mr. Hussein and how many are fighting for other causes.
"We shouldn't think this gives answer to the fundamental problems that have inspired the insurgency," said Bruce Hoffman, a terrorism analyst at the RAND Corporation. "They must follow up on this tremendous military and intelligence success to make fundamental changes that affect the daily lives of Iraqis."
General Sanchez also said the $750,000, in $100 bills, and the two AK-47's had been found in a small house next to Mr. Hussein's hiding hole.
The announcement of Mr. Hussein's arrest was made at a tightly guarded news conference in Baghdad, in a building that once was part of the Iraqi leader's vast collection of marble palaces and lavish offices along the Tigris. 
L. Paul Bremer III, the head of the occupation authority that has run Iraq since Mr. Hussein's government fell in April, made the first announcement of the capture. 
"Ladies and gentlemen," he said, "we got him."
But for many Iraqis, the sight of Mr. Hussein, even in custody, also serves as a reminder of the painful years lived under him and his Baath Party, which came to power in a coup in 1968. During his reign, Mr. Hussein subjected his country to three wars, first against Iran, then to invade Kuwait and finally, in March, against the American-led invasion. 
Some people wept publicly, pulling out worn photographs of relatives who they said were executed during the waves of political repression. But many simply stayed home as the news spread and darkness fell over the city.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush, in a brief televised speech yesterday. Page A18. (Photo by Reuters Television); Saddam Hussein, after his arrest, in a televised image provided yesterday by American officials. (Photo by Department of Defense); (Photographs from Department of Defense); (Photo by Archie Tse/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Saddam Hussein undergoing part of what the Pentagon called a routine physical examination yesterday after his capture near Tikrit. (Photo by Department of Defense); (Photographs (from left) Associated Press (al-Bakr); United Press International; Iranian News Agency; Goran Tomasevic, Reuters)(pg. A16) Chart: "Temporary Cover" Mud hut with two small roomsAppears to be where Saddam Hussein was living. A bedroom was cluttered with clothes. The other room was a simple kitchen. Where the capture was madeOpening was about 3 by 1.5 feet. The top of the shaft had an outer frame and an inner lip, apparently to allow the lid to lie flush with the ground. The depth was about 8 feet. Diagram of Saddam's hiding place showing the hole Saddam was found hiding in. (Sources by Coalition Provisional Authority; Fourth Infantry Division)(pg. A1) Chart: "The End of an Era in Iraq"Saddam Hussein's rise to power, and eventual downfall. 1937Born in a village near Tikrit. 1957Joins the Baath Party. 1959Takes part in an assassination attempt on the Iraqi president, wounding him. Mr. Hussein escapes to Syria, and later to Cairo. 1963Returns to Iraq, marries his cousin. They have five children including sons Uday and Qusay. 1969Is appointed vice president by President Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr (above right). 1979Becomes president and carries out a purge, executing dozens of military officers and party officials. 1980Iraqi forces invade Iran, beginning the Iran-Iraq war. 1982Executes hundreds of high-ranking officers and a small number of party officials after they voice discontent with the war against Iran. 1988Iraqi planes drop mustard gas and hydrogen cyanide on Halabja, a Kurdish village in Iraq, killing about 5,000 people, most of them civilians. 1988Iran-Iraq war ends. Iraq emerges heavily in debt. 1990Iraq invades Kuwait, touching off the Persian Gulf war. 1991The United States and its allies invade Kuwait and Iraq, after a bombing campaign. Iraq withdraws from Kuwait and accepts United Nations Security Council resolutions. 1997The U.N. Security Council censures Iraq for interfering with weapons inspectors, but takes no action. 1998The United States and Britain carry out air and missile strikes after Iraq declares an end to its cooperation with U.N. weapons inspections. 2003American and British forces invade Iraq largely on the premise that the government possesses illegal weapons. Mr. Hussein is forced out of power and goes into hiding. 2003Mr. Hussein is captured near Tikrit on Dec. 13. (Sources by Saddam Hussein, A Political Biography, by Efriam Karsh and Inari Rautsi; news reports)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); WAR CRIMES (73%); TERRORISM (73%); FIREARMS (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); CYANIDES (59%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REWARDS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (96%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); RAY ODIERNO (58%) SACHS, SUSAN; HUSSEIN, SADDAM; ODIERNO, RAYMOND T (MAJ GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KUWAIT (93%); SYRIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GULF STATES (78%) IRAQ; TIKRIT (IRAQ)#000T031217SRAQA01# 

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



404 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Zarubino Journal; 
China, Lacking a Key Port, Looks Longingly to Russia

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: ZARUBINO, Russia 

 BODY:
With a 10-mile-wide sliver of Russian territory blocking Manchuria from the Sea of Japan, China is drawing on its own history for a solution, pushing Russia to sign a 49-year lease to convert the midsize cargo port on Trinity Bay here to a Chinese economic enclave, a Hong Kong of Russia's Far East.
 So far, the Russians have not agreed. But the Chinese are making their intentions plain: they have built a six-lane highway to the door of the border crossing closest to here and, according to Russian officials, ordered Chinese companies to boycott Russia's ports in the Sea of Japan until Moscow agrees to the scheme. 
 In the 19th century, European powers strong-armed long-term leases on ports from a weak Chinese government. After the 16th-century Portuguese occupation of Macao, the British took Hong Kong, the French took Zhanjiang and the Germans took Qingdao. The Americans, Austrians, Belgians, French, Italians and Russians negotiated concessions in Tientsin and Shanghai. 
Now China's economy is on a meteoric rise, and the European power, Russia, is nervous about being eclipsed. A century ago, Russian authorities promoted these lands bisected by the Amur River as "Amur California," forecasting a population of 100 million by 2000. Instead, the new century has seen new books with pessimistic titles like "Russia's Far East: a Region at Risk" and "The End of Eurasia."
The Russians appear by turns intrigued by Chinese interest and wary of it.
On a recent day, four midsize cargo ships filled the battered quay here. Cranes unloaded used cars from Japan and loaded scrap metal for South Korea. A South Korean ferry boat unloaded passengers and cargo, largely in transit for China.
"Cargo that is here by 11 a.m. will be in China by 3 p.m.," Mohammed S. Muskanov, an executive for Berkut, a Russian company that over the last decade has quietly developed Zarubino and Posyet, a port 20 miles south of here, as maritime outlets for China's landlocked Manchuria region. Virtually ice-free, the two ports are the southernmost in Russia.
"The Chinese are very interested in these ports, and they are ready to invest large sums of money," he said, talking a few steps from a new customs and immigration control station where signs are in Russian, English, Chinese and Korean. "The Chinese need guarantees." 
Demographics and geography underscore the Chinese interest -- and the Russian alarm. The population is 50 times denser on China's side of the border, and wheat prices soared by one-third this fall because of shortages of water and farmland. On the Russian side, only one-third of the arable land is cultivated. Outside of Vladivostok, there is water to spare.
China also wants to import Russian oil into Manchuria. A pipeline would bolster China's new campaign to revive its industrial northeast. Speedy guaranteed access to Russian ports on the Japan Sea would ease an economic isolation started in 1860 when a czarist official drew a border treaty map that cut China off from the Sea of Japan.
Asked about the "Hong Kong of Russia" proposal in an interview in Vladivostok, Sergei M. Darkin, governor of Russia's Maritime region, winced and said: "I don't support this idea. We are ready to consider projects of transshipping cargo, but not the leasing or renting ports with the Chinese. We can do it ourselves." 
Last year, President Vladimir V. Putin summoned to Vladivostok the 10 governors of the Russian Far East region, and then lectured them on live television about the area's poor economic performance.
At Trinity Bay, the response can be seen, as Russians develop an international trade entrepot, on their own terms and with their own money. On Dec. 5, with local press in tow, Governor Darkin cut the ribbon on a new stretch of highway, part of a four-year, $50-million program to pave by 2005 the road network feeding all five border crossings with China, said Vladimir V. Rosenberg, the governor's construction aide.
On Dec. 2, the governor announced, companies made commitments to build $100 million worth of new facilities here: a container terminal and a coal terminal. He emphasized, "Only Russian investment," and added, "We are starting a program to completely reconstruct our five border checkpoints to China to increase cargo and passenger flow." 
Given sensitivities, Djambulat A. Tekiev, this area's regional legislator, said the solution to China's desire to exploit the ports and to Russia's fear of losing control was not a Chinese lease but a joint venture. Mr. Tekiev, head of the Berkut company that ships cargo here, asserted that many Chinese companies wanted to do business with his ports, "but their government will not let them."
Russians gained their foothold in the Far East through a treaty signed in 1858, but they remain insecure about their presence here. About 100,000 tourists from China are now visiting every summer, making use of new, direct flightsfrom Harbin and two other Chinese cities. The presence clearly unsettles some local Russians. "I went to get an ice cream cone last summer at a cafe and I thought, 'Whose town is this anyhow?' " recalled Olga Luzganova, a tour operator.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Zarubino, a midsize cargo port on the Sea of Japan, the Chinese hope to develop an economic enclave, a sort of Hong Kong in Russia's Far East. (Photo by Peter Blakely/Redux, for The New York Times) Map of Russia highlighting Zarubino: China seeks to lease the Zarubino port from Russia for 49 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); FERRIES (77%); IMMIGRATION (75%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (75%); BOYCOTTS (72%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (50%) Ports; Renting and Leasing; Ports

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); NORTHEAST CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); SHANDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); JAPAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); HONG KONG (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); MACAO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); GERMANY (76%); AUSTRIA (72%); BELGIUM (71%) China; Russia; Trinity Bay; Zarubino (Russia)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



405 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1902 words

HEADLINE: Disquiet on the Set; 
At Navy Yard, It's Hollywood vs. a Blue-Collar Past

BYLINE:  By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
In running away with Hollywood, is the Brooklyn Navy Yard running away from its proletarian past?
 The concrete walls of Steiner Studios, a $118 million project under construction in a cinematic Navy Yard locale on the Brooklyn waterfront, are climbing ever higher and the first of five soundstages is scheduled to open next fall. Its owners hope it will be Hollywood on the harbor. 
 But some of the Navy Yard's unglamorous current tenants -- many engaged in the gritty enterprises that help make New York run -- say they are being uprooted to make way for movie glitz.
"I guess my trucks are not Hollywood enough," said Gabriel Meltser, the owner of V.M. Trucking, a tenant at the Navy Yard for nearly a quarter-century. He shook his head at the sight of a row of nine movie trucks, trailers and catering vehicles with license plates from Pennsylvania and Georgia in the spots where his trailer-containers used to be parked, before they were banished. 
Now Mr. Meltser's 9 Brooklyn trucks and 12 workers must be gone by March because, he asserts, "they want to clear us out for movie-related businesses." 
It certainly seems there is demand for the movie studio, according to Katherine Oliver, commissioner of the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting. "Los Angeles studio executives say they want more large, flexible, competitive studio space in New York," she said. 
And filmmaking could be a wise investment for the city. "New York doesn't have a whole lot of industries that are likely candidates for growth," said Jonathan Bowles, research director of the Center for an Urban Future, a nonprofit urban planning group in Manhattan. Movie facilities -- as well as biotechnology and software companies -- "are industries that New York is right to be looking at, and grooming for the future." 
But film studios need the same commercially zoned spaces that manufacturing, wholesaling and distribution firms do, Mr. Bowles said, "and in these trade-offs, it's really sad that a lot of the old-economy sectors get the short end of the stick." 
In a city that has been hemorrhaging manufacturing jobs, the Navy Yard has been an industrial bulwark resisting the evolution to a service and retail economy. And although Mr. Meltser's customers are in New York, spiraling city property values may force him to New Jersey. His employees -- mostly minority workers who live nearby and would have trouble commuting that far -- will be out of work.
In the neighborhoods around the Navy Yard, and throughout the city as well, old-economy employers are being pushed out by creeping TriBeCafication in Greenpoint, Long Island City, Red Hook, the South Bronx, Sunset Park and Williamsburg, Mr. Bowles said. The jobs they take with them, he said, provide work for the growing number of immigrants who do not have the skills or language to take more upscale jobs.
"The battle lines are being drawn every day in Brooklyn over competing uses for the same space in an out-of-control real estate market," said Joan Bartolomeo, president of the Brooklyn Economic Development Corporation, a private nonprofit group.
When the Navy left the Navy Yard in the early 1970's, the site was taken over by the city as an industrial park. The fenced-in 265-acre complex became a place for truckers, fabricators, builders, theatrical designers and those who warehouse commodities ranging from construction materials to toilet paper.
It is difficult to say how many of the Navy Yard's 220 tenants are now feeling challenged. When telephoned or approached at the Navy Yard, most quickly declined to speak about their landlord, and only a handful agreed to talk.
Those who did -- some of them venerable tenants at the Navy Yard -- complained angrily, and independently, about doubling rents, a halt in lease renewals, the anxiety of month-to-month lease extensions and harassment in the form of legal actions that small, underfinanced companies can little afford. 
"A lot of other people here are very scared," said Mr. Meltser, one of the few tenants willing to speak for the record. "These businesses are their lives. And everyone is trying to save their lives." 
Another longtime tenant, the owner of a storage and trucking company, said: "They have given up on my kind of business. They want to bring Manhattan over here." He spoke on the condition that his name not be printed, fearing that "they'll throw me out right now."
A third company in the Navy Yard for more than a decade has put millions of dollars into its dilapidated facility through the years and wants to spend more, "but we can't get an extension of our lease," said the owner.
While the studio has projected that thousands will be employed if its sound stages are fully booked, the owner of another threatened medium-sized business said, "their jobs are just plans and proposals, but we are reality." He contended that new studio jobs would not go to local people but to highly skilled movie workers who live in New Jersey and upstate New York.
Ruben Falkowitz, vice president of I. Gold, a trucking and warehouse company that left the Navy Yard more than a year ago, said: "In the early 70's, when we first moved in, they wanted us to hire as many as we could and fill the Navy Yard up for the city.
"But now," he added, "if you're in their way, they don't care." Mr. Falkowitz said his company was harassed to leave in a legal dispute after a fire in the I. Gold warehouse; Navy Yard management said the company had to leave because it stored hazardous materials in violation of its lease and its insurance coverage. 
Eric J. Deutsch, president and chief executive of the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation, which manages the property, denied that he is trying to evict unsightly tenants. "It's easy to point to the studio as the culprit, but it's not," he said. Mr. Deutsch acknowledged that he was interested in film-related businesses for the Navy Yard, "but we are not clearing out businesses for a movie studio."
He said that "people love it here," and rejected the notion that there was a climate of fear. "With 220 tenants, you're going to have a dozen landlord-tenant disputes going on at one time."
Some tenants on month-to-month leases, Mr. Deutsch said, are on probation because "we're not sure these businesses can make it."
As for the rent increases, he said, "when people have had their leases here for many years, and they renew, then the rent can go way up."
"We are still the home for smaller and industrial businesses, and will continue to be," he said. "That's our core business." 
The yard's millions of square feet of roofed space is 98 percent occupied and brings in revenue of $17 million a year at rents of $6 to $16 per square foot, Mr. Deutsch said. It has 3,700 workers. He said he had recently signed new leases with nonfilm-related businesses. 
But now, Mr. Deutsch said, the Navy Yard, which is nonprofit, needs "to make money to reinvest in the facility after 35 years of neglect," especially because it faces steep cuts in the city's coming capital budget.
The more venerable tenants in the yard have helped it evolve from an ominous to an optimistic place. 
Mr. Meltser, an immigrant from Ukraine who spoke little English when he arrived in New York in 1976, is the embodiment of the American dream. He worked as a taxi driver, saved enough to buy his first truck for $3,500, and began subletting a parking space at the Navy Yard in 1979. By 1986, he had three trucks; the empty Navy Yard begged him and others to take space there. 
Though the yard is protected by security gates, "nobody even wanted to come to the neighborhood," he said. "It was a war zone. We heard gunshots every night." 
These days, Mr. Meltser, now 55, owns nine trucks; recent yearly revenue has been as high as $1.2 million. Proudly displayed on the office wall is a picture of him with with Gov. George E. Pataki at a fund-raiser. 
Ten of the 13 V.M. Trucking employees live in Brooklyn.
"It's hard to find a job around here," said James Isaacs, the company's 52-year-old dispatcher, who has worked for V.M. for eight years and lives in Bedford-Stuyvesant. "If they move to New Jersey, I can't follow them. I'll be out looking."
V.M. has a small second-floor office space, for which it now pays $8.31 per square foot, and it pays extra to park its trucks near the building. The company paid separately to park truck trailers in a nearby lot until they were barred from the Navy Yard.
For more than a year, Mr. Meltser has been involved in a complicated dispute over these rentals, a battle that he calls harassment and that the Navy Yard calls the exercise of its right to license activities on its property. 
During the negotiations, Mr. Meltser said, he went to Mr. Deutsch and "I begged him not to put me out on the street." He said Mr. Deutsch's response was, "One business goes, another comes." 
Mr. Deutsch said that "I don't know that I put it that directly," and denied that the banishment was related to the movie studio. 
"Truck parking provides zero jobs," he said. "The future of New York is in creating more space for industrial development, and there will be more jobs at the Navy Yard in the future, and more industrial space." 
In June, security guards blocked V.M. trailers from entering the yard; Mr. Meltser and his 30-year-old son Mark, who is the company's vice president, went to court and won a temporary restraining order until late September, when a judge said the Navy Yard had a right to revoke parking privileges. Ever since, Mr. Meltser has had to find parking for his trailers each night in apatchwork of nonsecure spaces on surrounding streets.
As for the movie vehicles that have replaced the V.M. containers, Mr. Deutsch said, they are temporary occupants until he can construct another building on the site that would welcome even more businesses.
Such a welcome would be good news for Brooklyn's threatened industrial companies, said Mr. Bowles, the urban researcher, because "the single biggest problem for manufacturers in New York City today is the demand for real estate."
The jobs at these small companies "pack a powerful punch, and are very important to the city in revenues and taxes," Mr. Bowles said.
There were 139,800 manufacturing jobs in the five boroughs in 2002, down 56,100 from 1998, according to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. And according to the bureau, there were 148,300 "wholesale trade" jobs in distribution and warehousing, down 4,900 from 1998. 
"Our government officials believe in the inevitability of the demise of manufacturing," Mr. Bowles said, "but the reality is that a lot of the smaller entrepreneurial and immigrant companies want to stay here."
Beyond this, 36 percent of the city's population in 2000 was foreign born, up from 24 percent in 1980.
"Many of these people lack the skills and English proficiency to get jobs in the service and retail sectors," Mr. Bowles said. "The manufacturing and wholesale-trade sectors have long served as an opportunity for this segment of the city's population to enter the work force with relatively well-paying jobs."
In the future, will new-sector jobs continue to grow at the expense of the old economy? "I think we can grow both," Mr. Bowles said. "We can encourage emerging-growth sectors like film, and retain our existing jobs."
To do that, said Ms. Bartolomeo of the Development Corporation, "someone has to step in and be the adult and create a balance." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gabriel Meltser, at left, says his trucking company's trailers are banned from the Brooklyn Navy Yard. His son, Mark Meltser, helps run the firm. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B5); The Steiner Studios building is rising at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, where some older tenants say their trailers are no longer allowed to park overnight. "Truck parking provides zero jobs," a yard official said. (Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (87%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); WHOLESALERS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (65%); MAYORS (65%); CITY LIFE (64%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (62%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (50%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%) Brooklyn Navy Yard; Trucks and Trucking; Storage; Motion Pictures; Suits and Litigation; Renting and Leasing

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (83%) Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corp

PERSON: Glenn Collins; Eric J Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



406 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Shift Focus To Helping the Uninsured 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
Fresh from their victory on Medicare, Congressional Republicans and the Bush administration say they are planning a new initiative to help provide health insurance to people under 65 who have no coverage.
 The Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, Republican of Tennessee, is developing legislation and said it would be high on his agenda next year. 
 Just minutes after President Bush signed the Medicare bill on Dec. 8, Dr. Frist said he was turning his attention to the uninsured. 
"For my next three years," he said, "that will be the overriding issue. That's the next big challenge."
Details of the package have not been decided. But members of Congress and administration officials said they were considering several proposals: tax credits to help individuals and families buy health insurance; expanded eligibility for existing health programs; and new tools to help small businesses band together and buy insurance.
Democrats are sure to emphasize the issue in the 2004 elections. The Census Bureau recently reported that the number of people without health insurance shot up last year by 2.4 million, the largest increase in a decade, to 43.6 million. From 2000 to 2002, the number of uninsured rose 9.5 percent, as health costs surged and many workers lost coverage provided by employers.
President Bush fulfilled a campaign promise by adding a drug benefit to Medicare, and Republican pollsters say that with a proposal on the uninsured, he could cement his leadership role in an area of domestic policy long claimed by Democrats.
David H. Winston, president of the Winston Group, a Republican polling firm, said: "Having passed the Medicare law, Republicans will be seen as more credible when they offer proposals on the uninsured. The public is not expecting perfection, but is looking for progress."
Administration officials said Mr. Bush would try to head off Democratic criticism by proposing a major investment in tax credits and other measures for the uninsured.
But prospects in Congress are clouded by lingering Democratic bitterness over the Medicare law. Democratic leaders, shut out of negotiations on Medicare, are in no mood to cooperate with Republicans on another health care issue.
In addition, it will be difficult to find money for a major initiative at a time of large budget deficits. Congress and the administration are looking at proposals that cost $50 billion to $80 billion over 10 years.
Republicans and Democrats have worked together on some initiatives, including a 2002 law that provides tax credits to pay 65 percent of health plan premiums for people who have lost their jobs because of an increase in foreign imports.
Senators Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, and Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, recently introduced a bill to extend that tax credit to anyone receiving unemployment compensation. Senators Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, and Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, have introduced a bill that would provide coverage to parents of children who already qualify for Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program.
The major Democratic candidates for president have offered comprehensive proposals to expand health insurance coverage. For example, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts has outlined a plan to guarantee coverage for virtually all children. Howard Dean, a physician, advocates "a repeal of Bush's tax cuts so that we can provide universal health care," and he points to his record as governor of Vermont, where the proportion of people without insurance is among the lowest in the nation.
Dr. Frist has appointed a group of 10 Republican senators to propose ways of covering the uninsured. The panel, headed by Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, is considering different options for specific segments of the population.
Karen M. Ignagni, president of the American Association of Health Plans, expressed a view that seems to be taking hold in Congress.
"In the last decade," Ms. Ignagni said, "we learned that one size doesn't fit all. The uninsured are a diverse population. Many are working but cannot afford the insurance that's offered to them. Some are working but not offered insurance. Others are temporarily uninsured because they're between jobs. Others fall through the cracks of public programs."
Health economists say that one-fifth of workers who are offered insurance do not take it. A recent study by the Urban Institute estimates that at least half of uninsured children are eligible for a government health insurance program, but not enrolled.
Employers, alarmed at the increase in the number of uninsured, have been lobbying for tax credits and other assistance to make insurance more affordable. They see health benefits as a way to attract and retain workers, and they say they fear that a continued rise in the number of uninsured will increase pressure for national health insurance or other big government programs.
Republicans are divided over proposals to help small businesses band together to buy insurance through their trade associations. In June, the House passed a bill to encourage such "association health plans."
Two members of Dr. Frist's task force, Ms. Snowe and Senator Jim Talent of Missouri, have introduced a similar bill, with strong support from President Bush. "It makes sense to give small businesses the same bargaining power that big companies enjoy," Mr. Bush said.
But another member of the panel, Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, opposes the idea, saying it would expose consumers to insurance scams. The association health plans, Mr. Nickles said, would be largely exempt from state regulation and would attract healthier workers, "thereby increasing costs for firms that remain in the traditional insurance market." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); CENSUS (69%); DISMISSALS (65%); MEDICAID (58%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Tax Credits; Small Business; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%) Census Bureau

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush; Bill (Sen) Frist

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



407 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: THE CAPTURE OF HUSSEIN: THE RESISTANCE; 
At Least 17 Die in Attack on Police Station West of Baghdad

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: KHALDIYA, Iraq, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
Just 12 hours after Saddam Hussein was captured, a car bomb exploded Sunday outside the police station in this town 60 miles west of Baghdad, and military officials said at least 17 people had been killed and 33 wounded. It was the deadliest attack on American-led forces since two police stations near Baghdad were hit with car bombs three weeks ago.
 What will happen to the guerrilla fighters staging such attacks, and whether the attacks will continue at the current rate and scale, are some of the questions raised by Mr. Hussein's capture. 
 Although some of the anti-American fighters could now be demoralized, experts on insurgency and terrorism said many would probably carry on the attacks, especially since the fighters seem to be organized in cells rather than under a central authority. In the short term, there is a good chance that the guerrillas will stage a wave of retaliatory attacks, the experts say.
"We do not believe at this time we will have a complete elimination of these attacks," Lt. Gen. Ricardo Sanchez, the commander of American forces in Iraq, said at a news conference on Sunday afternoon.
It was unclear whether guerrillas who had attacked the police station here on Sunday knew of Mr. Hussein's capture on Saturday. But at the very least, the bombing here showed that the imprisonment of Mr. Hussein had done nothing to stop the attack.
"An insurgency is about more than one person," said Bruce Hoffman,a terrorism analyst at the RAND Corporation. "An insurgency gains traction because of fundamental grievances among a population that are exploited by the fighters." 
The car bomb in Khaldiya exploded at 8:32 a.m., in a town where anger at the American occupation runs high. Many people here are Sunni Muslims, a group favored by Mr. Hussein before he was deposed by the United States. In September, attackers here assassinated the police chief.
An American Army officer at the bombing scene, Lt. Col. Jeff Swisher, said 17 policemen had been killed and 33 people wounded. But the director of the hospital morgue in the nearby town of Ramadi said he had counted 21 bodies including that of at least one civilian -- a young boy -- who had been walking past the station when the car bomb detonated.
Colonel Swisher said there was "some evidence" that a person had been in the car. The bomb detonated when policemen were changing shifts, maximizing the human toll. A few hours after the explosion, more than a hundred soldiers, many in Humvees and tanks, blocked off the station, keeping away furious onlookers. People were spreading rumors that the Americans had bombed the station from the air. 
Most of a concrete wall near the station entrance had been destroyed. A mass of twisted metal was all that remained of a white sedan parked outside. Next to it, water had gathered in a 12-foot-wide crater formed by the explosion.
"After I get my salary this month, I'm quitting," said Ahmed Muhammad, one of the 150 or so policemen who work at the station.
At 11:45 a.m., dozens of men walked past the station carrying a coffin with the body of Muthana Abdulhamid, one of the dead policemen. "God is great, America is the enemy of God," the men chanted. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TESTIMONY (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); RELIGION (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%) Bombs and Explosives; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%) Edward Wong; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Khaldiya (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



408 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 707 words

PERSON: William V. Roth Jr. 

HEADLINE: William V. Roth Jr., Veteran of U.S. Senate, Dies at 82 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
William V. Roth Jr., a longtime senator who gave his name to a popular tax-sheltered retirement account and a 1981 tax cut, died here on Saturday. He was 82.
 Mr. Roth, a Republican who represented Delaware for 30 years in the Senate and 4 in the House of Representatives, lived in Wilmington, Del. He was visiting his daughter, Katharine K. Roth, in Washington on Friday when he complained of stomach pains and was taken to George Washington University Hospital, said Jim Courtney, his former press secretary. The cause of death was heart failure, Mr. Courtney said. 
 Mr. Roth lost a re-election bid in 2000, in a race in which his age and health were an issue. After his defeat he continued to be active, as co-chairman of the U.S.-E.U.-Slovakia Action Commission, a private group seeking to help Slovakia's economic, security and foreign policy development. He had long been involved in trying to expand NATO into Eastern Europe. 
The term "Roth I.R.A." appears in the American Heritage dictionary. The accounts, which were available beginning in 1998, differ from the original individual retirement accounts, which allow taxpayers to deposit income with taxes due only when the money is withdrawn. Money contributed to Roth I.R.A.'s is deposited after taxes, but the earnings are never taxed if certain restrictions are observed. The money can be used for education or first-time home purchases. 
Mr. Roth was also the co-sponsor of a proposal for steep tax cuts, known as Kemp-Roth, with Representative Jack F. Kemp, Republican of New York. A version of the plan was incorporated into a 1981 tax bill and signed into law by President Ronald Reagan.
Mr. Roth served as chairman of the Senate Finance Committee from September 1995 until he left office in 2001.
He was also an aggressive watchdog against wasteful government spending. In 1985, as chairman of the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, he disclosed that the Navy was buying toilet seats for one of its aircraft models for $640 each. The seller, the Lockheed-California Company, said the seat was designed to be "lightweight, corrosive resistant, thermo-formed, polycarbonate material, seamless and sufficiently durable to withstand repeated usage and aircraft landings." But Mr. Roth said, "You can go into a mobile home and see something not much different."
Mr. Courtney said on Sunday that to show the waste of money, the senator and his staff had bought a Christmas tree and decorated it with a toilet seat, hammers, screwdrivers and other small articles that the Pentagon had paid too much for. The decorations cost the senator $210 but would have cost the Pentagon $1,100, Mr. Courtney said. 
Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware, who served in the Senate with Mr. Roth for 28 years, said he was "the person I trusted most in my public life." State political experts said that because of Mr. Roth's 34 years in Congress he had held statewide office longer than anyone else in Delaware. 
Mr. Roth was known for campaigning around Delaware with a St. Bernard. Mr. Courtney said that a candidate "could stand out there and try and shake hands, and maybe people would stop."
"You stand out there with a St. Bernard, and the kids come over; they want to pet the dog," he said. "It gives you an opportunity to talk to the parents."
"He had one for every campaign," Mr. Courtney said. At the time of his death, Mr. Roth had a St. Bernard named Wilhelm IV.
Senator Roth was born in Great Falls, Mont., graduated from the University of Oregon in 1943 and joined the Army as a private. He served with an intelligence unit in the Pacific that specialized in psychological operations. He reached the rank of captain and was awarded a Bronze Star.
In 1946, he used the G.I. Bill to go to Harvard, where he earned degrees in business and law. He was admitted to the bar in California and Delaware.
In addition to his daughter, Mr. Roth is survived by his wife, Jane Richards Roth, a judge with the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit; a son, William V. Roth III, of Arlington, Va.; and four grandsons. 
Funeral services will be private, but a public memorial service is scheduled for 2 p.m. on Sunday in Newark, Del., at the University of Delaware's Clayton Hall.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator William V. Roth Jr. in 2000, after losing his bid for re-election. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); CHRISTMAS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%) Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (90%) DELAWARE, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SLOVAKIA (92%); EUROPE (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



409 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Computerized voting machines are secure and efficient, their makers say. Skeptics are demanding a paper trail.

BYLINE:  By John Schwartz

DATELINE: Gaithersburg, Md. 

 BODY:
HIGH-TECH voting is getting a low-tech backstop: paper. Most new voting machines are basically computers with touch screens instead of keyboards. Their makers promise that the new machines will simplify voting and forever end the prospect of pregnant and hanging chads. But as the market for computerized voting equipment has intensified, a band of critics has emerged, ranging from the analytical to the apoplectic.
 The opponents of the current machines, along with the people who make them and election officials who buy them, gathered to spar in Gaithersburg, a Washington suburb, last Wednesday and Thursday, at a symposium optimistically titled, "Building Trust and Confidence in Voting Systems." 
 The critics complained that the companies were putting democracy into a mystery box, and that the computer code for the systems was not written to standards that ensure security. Critics are uneasy about the major vendors' political ties, and they worry about what a malevolent insider or a hacker could do to an election. But above all, they complain that few of the new machines allow voters to verify their votes, whether with a paper receipt or another method, an idea favored by computer scientists including David L. Dill of Stanford University. 
 The companies generally respond that the lever-style, mechanical voting machines offer no such backup, either. The critics counter that the computerized systems are the first to need voter verification methods. 
 Now a growing number of election officials and politicians seem to be agreeing with the skeptics. Last week, Nevada said it was buying voting machines for the entire state, and it demanded paper receipts for all voters. Nevada Secretary of State Dean Heller said he received an overwhelming message from voters that they did not trust electronic voting. "Frankly, they think the process is working against them, rather than working for them," Mr. Heller, a Republican, said. Last month, the California secretary of state, Kevin Shelley said that his state would require all touch-screen voting machines to provide a "voter-verified paper audit trail." 
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, has introduced a bill that would require a paper trail and security standards for voting machines. Her bill is similar to an earlier entry sponsored by a fellow Democrat, Representative Rush D. Holt of New Jersey. "What's required for money machines should be required for voting machines," Senator Clinton said in introducing the bill. "We must restore trust in our voting, and we must do it now."
 Rebecca Mercuri, an expert on voting technology who is affiliated with Harvard's Kennedy School of Government and attended the symposium, said the tone of the discussion had changed from acrimony and accusation to the beginnings of civil conversation. The old corporate view, she said, was that "we have the safest, most secure voting machine -- and by the way, it's a secret," Ms. Mercuri said. But that "is not going to provide the trust and confidence that we need," she said.
 The symposium was at the National Institute of Standards and Technology. The institute, part of the Commerce Department, plans to develop programs to test and accredit voting systems under the Help America Vote Act, passed in 2002 after the bitterly contested 2000 elections. That law requires state and local officials to replace outdated voting systems, calls for minimum standards for the systems and provides federal funds to move the process along. 
 Companies that make electronic voting machines have scrambled to dominate the lucrative new market. They include Diebold Election Systems (a division of Diebold Inc.) Sequoia Voting Systems, Election Systems and Software, and Hart InterCivic. 
 The industry insists that its systems are secure and trustworthy, with or without paper. Harris Miller, who leads a new trade association for the industry, said that the group had no position in favor or against paper trails, but dismissed the issue as a "theological debate within the academic community." Mr. Miller, who is also president of the Information Technology Association of America, called some opponents of electronic voting "black helicopter theorists" and Luddites who "want to go back to the bad old days" of stuffed ballot boxes and chad wars. 
 But some of the critics know a lot about computing, security and elections -- like Prof. Aviel D. Rubin at Johns Hopkins University, who led a team that analyzed purloined code from Diebold and found flaws that he said even basic training in secure coding would prevent. His work was cited in Nevada's decision to choose Sequoia's machines over Diebold's. "The only way that vendors are going to produce auditable machines is if they are forced to," Professor Rubin said. "So the recent moves of California and Nevada to require voter verifiable paper are huge steps in the right direction." 
 A spokesman for Sequoia said that providing paper had less to do with security than with voter confidence. "I still don't believe that paper is essential," the spokesman, Alfie Charles, said. "But it's becoming more important -- for perception if nothing else, and perception is critical in the voting process." 
 A spokesman for Diebold, David Bear, said that the company did not oppose the idea of voter receipts, and was happy to sell whatever kind of voting machine election officials wanted to buy. "We're in the business of providing products that our customers need," he said. In fact, the company's machines already have thermal printers that are used to produce end-of-day reports, so providing individual receipts would not necessarily require an enormous change.
 Not all of Diebold's employees are so supportive of change, as Web sites that have sprung up in opposition to the machines have shown. Among the thousands of internal e-mail messages from the company that have made their way to anti-Diebold Web sites is a Jan. 3 message to colleagues by an employee identified only as Ken. Referring to criticisms of the Diebold, he wrote that news articles about a paper trail missed an important point, which he italicized: "they already bought the system." 
 "At this point they are just closing the barn door," Ken wrote. "Let's just hope that as a company we are smart enough to charge out the yin if they try to change the rules now and legislate voter receipts." In a later note he explained that he meant, "Any after-sale changes should be prohibitively expensive."
 Mr. Bear, the spokesman for Diebold, said, "It's safe to say that an e-mail does not represent the policy of Diebold."
 Professor Rubin said he was heartened by the increasing demand for a paper trail, but said it was only the first step toward ensuring that election security moved forward instead of backward. "We still don't have a process for ensuring that the people writing the code of those machines know what they are doing, or are not malicious," he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Companies like Sequoia Voting Systems make voting machines that are basically computers with touch screens. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (96%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (92%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); OFFICE EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); COMPUTER PERIPHERAL MFG (78%); POLITICS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (68%) Voting Machines; Computer Security

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS & TECHNOLOGY (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%) Sequoia Voting Systems; Diebold Inc; Election Systems and Software Inc; Hart Intercivic Inc; National Institute of Standards and Technology

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DEAN HELLER (58%) John Schwartz

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



410 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: White House Letter; 
After Cheney's Private Hunt, Others Take Their Shots

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Vice President Dick Cheney's Christmas card arrived in the capital's mailboxes last week with this suddenly apt quotation from Benjamin Franklin: "And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without his aid?"
 Franklin made the remark at the 1787 Constitutional Convention to argue that because something as small as a sparrow's death comes to God's attention, clearly God has a voice in the affairs of men. Therefore, Franklin argued, a prayer should open the daily sessions held to write the founding document of the United States. (Franklin lost the argument, but his passage won a place in history.) 
 All of which brings us to Mr. Cheney's bird-hunting trip at the exclusive Rolling Rock Club in the hills of southwestern Pennsylvania last Monday, when he and nine others in his party shot some 400 out of 500 pen-raised pheasants released for the morning hunt. No one might have noticed the episode if The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette had not reported it, including the detail that the vice president had shot more than 70 of the ring-necked pheasants himself.
As a result, a lot of other people noticed the fallen birds: hunters who pursue birds in the wild, the Democratic presidential candidates and the Humane Society of the United States, which likened the shootings to the first day of the Iraq war.
"This can only be called a shooting-gallery operation," said Wayne Pacelle, the senior vice president of the Humane Society, who pronounced himself outraged. "Hunting is supposed to involve some opportunity for the animal to evade the hunter. Hunting in this setting is reduced to mass killing."
Mr. Cheney, who almost never speaks to the news media, had no comment on his trip or the identity of his hunting companions, and his office provided only sparse information. White House officials alsodeclined to release photographs they have of the vice president in full hunting mode. But the vice president's spokesman, Kevin Kellems, did say that the pheasants were cleaned, packed and sent to those less fortunate.
"The birds don't go to waste, they go to hunger relief charities," Mr. Kellems said.
Mr. Kellems, however, said he could not provide the names or locations of any charities or soup kitchens that received the birds and did not know how they were prepared, when they were served and who in fact ate them. (Pheasant under glass was an aristocratic dish of an earlier era; today's pheasant aficionados say the birds are delicious, although bony, and can be tough if improperly cooked.)
Details of the exact nature of the hunt were also hard to come by. Officers at the private Rolling Rock Club, which meanders over 10,000 acres in Ligonier Township about a 90-minute drive from Pittsburgh, did not return numerous calls seeking comment. Employees reached in the club's dog kennels said they had been ordered not to speak to the news media. The employees added that they did not know what had become of Scott Wakefield, a dog handler at the club who was quoted by The Post-Gazette as saying that 500 birds had been released from nets for the hunt.
If nets were used, bird-hunting experts said, Mr. Cheney and his party were probably prepositioned with shotguns on the ground or in blinds in trees. Another possibility was that the birds were released from a tower, with Mr. Cheney and the others ready for them on the ground. A final possibility was that the pheasants were released early in the day or the night before, and Mr. Cheney and his companions then went after them on foot.
Whatever the case, hunters generally do not embrace any form of the practice as a substitute for the real thing.
"I don't see anything terribly wrong with it, but I don't think it should be confused with hunting," said Sid Evans, editor in chief of the outdoor magazine Field & Stream. Shooting pen-raised birds, he said, "is a great way to train dogs, and it's a great way to educate young hunters."
Mr. Cheney often hunts in the wild, and his office would not discuss how frequently he shoots pen-raised birds at private clubs. The Post-Gazette reported, however, that Monday's trip was the second time Mr. Cheney had visited Rolling Rock. The newspaper also said Mr. Cheney had spent Monday afternoon at the club shooting an undetermined number of mallard ducks.
In October, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, a Democratic presidential candidate, blew two pheasants out of the Iowa sky in two shots of his 12-gauge shotgun, a display meant to show his prowess as well as his support for the rights of hunters and an assault-weapons ban. Mr. Kerry downed the birds in a cornfield, not at a private club.
"Something here doesn't add up," said David Wade, Mr. Kerry's spokesman. "The Bush administration says the economy is improving, but their millionaire vice president has to hunt for his own food."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Dick Cheney, an avid outdoorsman, on a 2001 fly-fishing trip on the Snake River in his home state, Wyoming. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL RIGHTS (88%); SPORT HUNTING (88%); ANIMAL WELFARE (86%); CHRISTMAS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (77%); SHOOTINGS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); WILDLIFE (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%); IRAQ WAR (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%) Hunting and Trapping; Pheasants; Cruelty to Animals

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY (54%) Rolling Rock Club (Pa)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (93%) Elisabeth Bumiller; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



411 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan Faces a Test In Democracy 

BYLINE:  By CARLOTTA GALL and AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
Afghans gathered Sunday for a historic grand council, or loya jirga, to debate and approve a new constitution that will pave the way for national elections. It will also be a test for President Hamid Karzai, as he faces growing political discord and opposition to his vision for a democratic system with a strong presidency.
 About 500 delegates traveled from throughout the country for the traditional tribal assembly, which is taking place in a large tent in western Kabul amid heavy security against attacks from the Taliban or other militants opposed to the event, which is sponsored by the United Nations. 
 Approving a new constitution is one of the steps stipulated in the United Nations Bonn Accords of 2001 for Afghanistan, and would be a major achievement for Mr. Karzai's government. United Nations officials and diplomats expect him to rally enough support for the draft constitution he favors, but probably with some amendments. 
The talks could last two weeks. 
Yet ahead of the proceedings, delegates and observers warned that the debate might prove protracted and divisive, particularly on the question of whether the country should adopt a parliamentary or a presidential system. Delegates were forming blocs and preparing to oppose parts of the draft constitution, according to United Nations officials and diplomats. 
A Kabul newspaper, Farda, published a cartoon showing Mr. Karzai and a foreign adviser tugging on the rope of a boat loaded with delegates, while two mujahedeen leaders, Abdul Rab Rassoul Sayyaf and Burhanuddin Rabbani, pulled in the other direction.
"Either the power of the American presidency! Or the parliamentary power of 1992 to 1996!" the caption read, referring to the Western-style democracy favored by Mr. Karzai versus the Islamic-style mujahedeen government of the 1990's.
The loya jirga opened with delegates expressing optimism and determination to make it a success. They had defied snowy roads and, for some, death threats from the Taliban to reach Kabul. 
The former king, Mohammad Zahir Shah, who carries the symbolic title father of the nation, opened the meeting, saying it heralded a "new national life for Afghanistan."
"The people trust in you, and you should not forget that," he told delegates. "You should act without fear, accept any pressure with patience and tolerance, and attend to what will benefit the country." 
Mr. Karzai called it a happy day that after 30 years of strife and upheaval, the country was drawing up a new constitution for a democratic future. "For the first time in the history of Afghanistan, the Afghan people have the opportunity to elect their own leaders," he said. 
Mr. Karzai gave an account of the work of his government over the last two years. Much of it sounded like a campaign speech as he listed his government's achievements: the roads being built, the schools being opened and the economy's revival. He also acknowledged some failures: the Taliban insurgency in the south, the continuing deforestation and the widespread cultivation of poppies, which this year produced the second biggest opium harvest ever recorded. 
The political divisions and opposition to Mr. Karzai's powers as president came to the fore in the election for chairman of the assembly. The four candidates represented the factions in play, with the harshest challenge coming from Abdul Hafiz Mansoor, 39, a mujahedeen veteran from the Panjshir Valley, which was the base of the Northern Alliance and is now the locus of opposition to too much power for Mr. Karzai. 
A conservative Islamist who now edits the newspaper Payam-eMojahed, Mr. Mansoor criticized the government and authorities for trying to make the constitution "for themselves, and not the people." 
In the end the candidate backed by Mr. Karzai, Sebaghatullah Mojadeddi, won with 252 votes, just squeaking over the 50 percent he needed to avoid a runoff.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Kabul, 500 delegates gathered yesterday in a national assembly to write a constitution. The former king, Mohammad Zahir Shah, center left, conferred with President Hamid Karzai during the talks. The delegates, many of them women, braved snow and threats from Taliban militants to reach Kabul. (Photo by Associated Press); (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency); (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); RELIGION (63%); SPONSORSHIP (55%) Constitutions; Legislatures and Parliaments; Terrorism; Politics and Government; Elections

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (90%) Carlotta Gall; Amy Waldman; Hamid Karzai

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (95%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



412 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: THE CAPTURE OF HUSSEIN: GLOBAL REACTION; 
Leaders Set Aside Differences to Congratulate U.S.

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
The news of Saddam Hussein's capture restored a sense of unity on Sunday among world leaders as they welcomed the seizure of one of the Middle East's most brutal dictators and expressed hope that his arrest would open a new chapter of stability and reconciliation in Iraq.
 Gone, for the moment, were recriminations over prewar intelligence on unconventional weapons, which has been picked apart in acrimonious national debates in Europe and in the United States. Gone also, for the moment, were the recriminations over Washington's plan to exclude some countries, notably Germany and France, from prime reconstruction contracts in Iraq. 
 Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain appeared ecstatic to have good news from Iraq after months of public criticism and declining support for the war. Upon receiving word of the seizure, Mr. Blair came back to London from his weekend retreat and issued the first public statement confirming the capture. 
The leaders of France and Germany, who had opposed the Bush administration's decision to go to war with Iraq last spring, were also quick to congratulate Washington, but each tended to use celebratory comments to emphasize national positions that sovereignty should be handed over to a new Iraqi government as quickly as possible.
In Poland, Italy and Spain, countries that had sent troops to Iraq and suffered battlefield casualties in support of the Bush administration, Mr. Hussein's capture was a joyous vindication. 
But more broadly for Europe, the American-led enterprise in Iraq seemed to have suddenly regained momentum and purpose, while Europe's leaders were in disarray after the collapse of their talks in Brussels focused on completing a constitution. 
American power, backed by its allies in Iraq, achieved an important milestone as European leaders were still struggling to come together as a distinct and independent continental power, one that aspires to marshal economic and military clout as effectively as Washington.
Still, a number of officials, including a senior military commander here, said the real test would be whether Mr. Hussein's capture undermined the Iraqi resistance and allowed for the return of the stability and security on which reconstruction -- and success -- depends.
President Bush asserted Sunday that "patience and resolve and focused action" were rewarded by the events near Tikrit, where Mr. Hussein emerged blinking and unshaven from his pit, and Europeans decided they could only applaud. 
"The page of Iraqi dictatorship has been turned by this," said Dominique de Villepin, the French foreign minister, who stridently opposed the war.
Parochial political concerns were also paramount. 
Mr. Blair's government has been under fire over the intelligence used to justify the war, and Mr. Blair's political advisers have been bracing themselves for the final report of a formal inquiry by Lord Hutton into whether the intelligence on Iraq's unconventional weapons had been exaggerated by Mr. Blair and his aides. The prime minister avoided the triumphal tones emanating from Baghdad, and instead used a televised address to call for reconciliation. 
"Where his rule meant terror and division and brutality, let his capture bring about unity, reconciliation and peace between all the people in Iraq," Mr. Blair said. He particularly reached out to the Sunni Muslim minority.
"To the Sunnis, whose allegiance Saddam falsely claimed, I say there is a place for you, playing a full part in a new and democratic Iraq," Mr. Blair said.
His remarks reflected the view here that some accommodation of the Sunni minority, which has dominated the country since the end of British rule in the last century, is crucial to the new Iraqi state, where Shiite Muslims, who represent about 65 percent of the population, are now asserting their political power.
While Mr. Blair expressed his elation in a telephone call with Mr. Bush, there were no signs of intimacy in the still frayed relations between Washington and Paris and Berlin.
President Jacques Chirac of France made a statement through his spokeswoman, who quoted him as saying, "It's a major event which should strongly contribute to the democratization and stabilization of Iraq." 
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany sent a congratulatory telegram to Mr. Bush "on this successful action." His foreign minister, Joschka Fischer, added, "This important success offers the chance to speed up the handover of sovereignty to an interim Iraqi government to increase stability in Iraq."
In Italy the foreign minister, Franco Frattini, said the arrest of Mr. Hussein was "a decisive blow against the Iraqi guerrillas who are sowing death" by attacking American and allied forces. On Sunday, a bomb at a police station west of Baghdad killed at least 17 Iraqis and wounded more than 30. Italians have been targets as well, with 19 killed last month in an attack on their military headquarters in Nasiriya. 
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi told reporters that he had "rejoiced at the news" of Mr. Hussein's arrest. 
"I thought of words like peace and reconciliation, democracy and development," he said. "I thought of Iraq, but also of Palestine and Israel," he added, expressing the hope that the removal of Mr. Hussein, whom he referred to as "he weapon of mass destruction," could have positive repercussions throughout the region.
Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar of Spain, whose forces in Iraq also suffered when a convoy of intelligence officers was attacked in November, leaving seven dead, said: "This is a good day for everyone. It is a good day for the whole world," adding that the moment had come for Mr. Hussein "to pay for his crimes."
In Asia, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan said, "The capture is a big step forward for the progress of security and the reconstruction of Iraq, and I welcome it." He expressed the hope that the seizure of Mr. Hussein would bind the Iraqis in a new political union and pledged, "Japan will do its best to support the reconstruction of Iraq."

GRAPHIC: Photos: CHANCELLOR GERHARD SCHRODER, -- with Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, rear, offered Germany's congratulations "on this successful action." (Photo by Agence France-Presse); FOREIGN MINISTER DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN -- In France's view, "the page of Iraqi dictatorship has been turned by this," he said. (Photo by Associated Press); PRIME MINISTER TONY BLAIR -- "Where his rule meant terror and division and brutality, let his capture bring about unity, reconciliation and peace." (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); TERRORISM (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); TONY BLAIR (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GERHARD SCHRODER (54%); DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (54%) Patrick E Tyler; Saddam (Pres) Hussein; Tony (Prime Min) Blair

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (72%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (93%); POLAND (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SPAIN (92%); BELGIUM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%) Iraq; Great Britain; France; Germany; Poland; Iraq; Italy; Spain

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



413 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: THE CAPTURE OF HUSSEIN: THE MIDDLE EAST; 
Among Arabs, Embarrassment Over the Surrender of a Figure Who Once Defied the West

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: CAIRO, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
When a prominent Jordanian academic heard Sunday that Saddam Hussein had been captured alive, he dialed a friend who had long been a booster of the Iraqi as the last significant Arab leader to defy the United States. 
 He found his friend getting drunk, despairing that Mr. Hussein, after more than two decades of painting himself as the knight of the Arabs, had been captured without so much as firing a shot. 
 "It is a shock to many," said the academic, Mustapha Hamarneh, who is the director of the Center for Strategic Studies at the University of Jordan. "They wanted him to at least die fighting, not be caught lying down in some hole like a rat. The image they built of him over the past 35 years was that he was a knight who would not die lying down. The real image or the real character turned out to be radically different." 
Across the Arab world, the ambiguity that has shadowed the entire American effort to replace Iraq's totalitarian government was reinforced by the indignity of Mr. Hussein's capture. 
While Arabs harbor no particular love for the deposed dictator or similarly oppressive governments, they despair that an outside power can humiliate the Arab world by capturing such a significant figure with relative impunity, underscoring their own impotence. 
"On the one hand, we are very happy, relieved that this man is out of the picture and he will not threaten us anymore," said Khaled M. Batarfi, managing editor of Al Madina, a newspaper in Jidda, Saudi Arabia. 
"On the other hand, to see him so humiliated -- he is an Arab president after all," he said. "Whether you love him or hate him, he is still a member of the family. He did not fight like his sons; he went like a dog or a cave man, so they feel sorry more for Arab pride than for the man." 
The reactions were not monolithic, of course, ranging from giddy horn- honking in Kuwait, which Mr. Hussein invaded in 1990, to certain doubts that the capture had actually taken place. Official reaction was muted, too, with only a few senior government officials stepping forward, mostly to express hope for a better future for the Iraqi people and a fair trial for Mr. Hussein.
"We hope that what happened will be a step to accelerate the Iraqi people toward handling their own affairs," Ahmed Maher, the Egyptian foreign minister, said at a news conference. "We hope that this step will make the Iraqi people more dedicated to building their country and developing greater independence."
Egypt supports a fair trial, with Mr. Hussein given the right to defend himself, Mr. Maher said. 
Some experts wondered if the ease of Mr. Hussein's capture might finally undermine his image as the last Arab action hero, but an attitude of denial seemed more prevalent. Many found it beyond belief that a man who had shot dead at least one cabinet minister, not to mention starting wars against Iran and Kuwait, had not so much as wounded a single American soldier.
In Cairo and elsewhere, there was no shortage of those who found it easier to dismiss the capture as an American hoax. "The whole scenario makes me doubt that this is Saddam Hussein," said Abdel Moneim Abdel Maqsood, a lawyer for the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt.
For those who support the idea that the United States is sincere in pushing democracy in the region, the picture of a bearded, exhausted Mr. Hussein brought hope that other dictators, not wanting to see themselves in a similar predicament, might loosen the reins. 
In Kuwait, the mood was more jubilant than anywhere else in the Arab world except perhaps Iraq, with Kuwaitis zapping instant messages on their mobile telephones saying, "Congratulations!" 
Several jokes circulated by the same method, reputedly quoting Muhammad Said al-Sahhaf, Iraq's information minister, as denying the capture, saying the man nabbed was actually a Taliban leader.
Elsewhere, though, many Arabs said they would have preferred that Iraqis, not Americans, had captured Mr. Hussein. 
"It is a shameful day in the history of the Arab nation when a prominent Arab president is caught by foreign occupiers and not the Iraqi people," said Abu Khaled, a Damascus taxi driver who gave only his nickname. "Saddam made a lot of deadly mistakes while in power. He attacked Iran and occupied Kuwait, and of course I don't support him, but let's not forget he was the first to strike Israel with dozens of missiles that shocked our enemies."
Many comments reflected widespread dislike for having Americans in the region.
"My bitterness over the fact that he was captured by Americans overwhelms any joy that he was arrested," said Reham Nabil, a young Egyptian economist studying at the American University of Cairo.
There were also mixed feelings whether the capture would affect the amount of violence the Americans occupying Iraq will face. There were, after all, widespread predictions in July after the death of Mr. Hussein's two sons, Uday and Qusay, that the resistance would weaken, while it actually grew far stronger. 
Some experts were glad that Mr. Hussein was out of the picture because they felt it would underscore to the Americans that the fight against them has nothing to do with restoring the former dictator to power. 
"In the absence of Saddam, the Americans will have no excuses; they will not be able to explain away the resistance as something related to him," said Abdel Bari Taha, a Yemeni political analyst. "The Americans will come to realize that resistance is coming from the Iraqi people, not his followers or the Baath Party."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a coffee shop in Cairo yesterday, Egyptian men gathered to watch the news of Saddam Hussein's capture. (Photo by Mohamed el-Dakhakhny for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); TESTIMONY (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (63%); TERRORISM (59%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (93%) Neil Macfarquhar; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (93%); JORDAN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); KUWAIT (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) Iraq; Middle East ; Kuwait

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2003 



414 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1878 words

HEADLINE: Congress to Weigh Easing U.P.S. Role On Pension Funds 

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH 

 BODY:
Congress is expected to consider a proposal early next year that would shift responsibility for billions of dollars in future pension promises to the federal government from United Parcel Service.
 U.P.S. is chafing at its legal requirement to cover retirees of other companies through its participation in multiemployer plans, in which many employers pool the cost of providing pensions for union members. While the prospects for the proposal are unclear, U.P.S. has gained support from several lawmakers, including some in Georgia, Kentucky and Ohio. 
 These plans allow workers to take their benefits with them when they switch jobs and are common in such fields as grocery stores, bakeries, machine shops and construction. About 35 million Americans are covered by traditional pension plans paid for by a single company, and about 9.5 million people participate in these multiemployer plans. 
When one company in such a plan goes out of business, the surviving companies have to make good on its pension promises. In trucking, many companies have disappeared since the industry was deregulated in 1980.
U.P.S. is the largest company in the pension plans of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, with potential responsibility for billions of dollars of obligations to its retirees. 
"We have serious concerns over the financial condition of these plans," said David Bolger, a spokesman for U.P.S. The company says it remains willing to pay for its own employees' pensions and even for the obligations it has already assumed from other companies. But it wants to make each company solely responsible for its own workers' benefits in the future. If a company defaults, those obligations would then go to the federal government.
Though it seems odd for U.P.S. to have to pay the pensions of its weaker competitors, the consequences of its legislative proposal could be stark. Some participants in the Teamster plans could find their pensions sharply reduced if their companies grow short of cash; the multiemployer pension model could fade away; and the struggling government agency that insures pensions could wind up shouldering even more debt. The Teamsters' president, James P. Hoffa, has accused U.P.S. of trying to persuade Congress to give it a labor concession the union already beat back.
U.P.S. has found political support from leading congressmen in Georgia, Ohio and Kentucky, where it is a big employer, and says it is trying to encourage thoughtful debate about a financial problem, not derail a popular pension plan.
Last year, Mr. Bolger said, U.P.S. contributed a little more than $1 billion to 32 regional Teamster plans, more than $8,000 for every covered U.P.S. employee.
The company declined to specify how much debt is involved in those plans, but the biggest one, the Central States pension fund, owed $31 billion to about 460,000 workers and retirees at the end of 2002. It had just $18.5 billion in assets. U.P.S., which had $31 billion in sales last year, is the fourth-largest employer in the private sector in the United States, trailing Wal-Mart, General Motors and McDonald's.
Bills to amend the pension laws as outlined by U.P.S., a step called partitioning, were introduced in the House and Senate this year. Before adjourning this month, the Senate agreed to make pension legislation -- including multiemployer issues -- one of its first items of business when it reconvenes in January. Partitioning the Teamster plans could ultimately mean that some of the union's members, working at shaky companies, could lose part of their benefits. The government insures pensions in case an employer defaults, but its coverage is limited, and the limits for multiemployer pensions are exceptionally low -- just $12,900 a year for a worker who is 65 when his or her pension plan fails.
That is well below the $36,000 pension a Teamster now earns by retiring at age 65 after 30 years of service. The government guarantees pensions up to about $44,000 a year when a single-employer plan fails.
Some pension specialists worry that if U.P.S. succeeds with the Teamster plans, it could provide a blueprint for other companies looking to escape pooled pension obligations, in other industries where a few large, successful companies subsidize many small, weak ones. That could doom the multiemployer model, which has been a fixture of the union workplace since the end of World War II.
This type of plan allows small businesses to offer pensions that they might not be able to afford on their own. It also weathers financial shocks and recessions better than single-employer plans, because the ups and downs of the participating companies often offset each other.
Partitioning the Teamster plans would thus add to the woes of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the agency that provides pension insurance. These plans have posed little problem for the agency until now. In its 28-year existence the agency has taken over 3,122 single-employer pension plans, but has had to rescue only 31 multiemployer plans.
Mr. Hoffa accused U.P.S. of mounting "a direct attack on the pension security of our members," in a letter to the company's chief executive, Michael Eskew, last month.
"The Teamsters union does not intend to sit idly by as U.P.S. attempts to use its political influence to push our funds into further crisis," Mr. Hoffa warned. The union has been pushing for a different change in the pension laws, to allow multiemployer plans more time to make up for their recent stock market losses. Teamster officials declined to be interviewed about pension matters.
Norman Black, a spokesman for U.P.S., says the company is not trying to kill this type of plan or challenge the union. 
"Our concern is making changes to ensure that these plans don't get into any more trouble," he said. "It's not meant as some assault on multiemployer plans or on the Teamsters. We just want to make these things stand tall without going under."
Among other measures, U.P.S. is suggesting that new rules be imposed so that plan trustees could not promise greater benefits to workers if the plan assets fall below a certain level.
This is not the first time U.P.S. has tangled with the Teamsters over pensions. During contract negotiations in 1997, U.P.S. proposed paying its obligations and pulling out of the Teamster plans, so it could set up its own single-employer pension fund for the 120,000 Teamsters on its payroll. U.P.S. promised it would treat these Teamsters well, sweetening their benefits. But the union rejected that idea -- then sweetened the benefits of all 460,000 Teamsters in the Central States plan to the level U.P.S. had intended to give its own employees, company officials say.
U.P.S. says that it has almost no control over the level of benefits the plan pays, because benefits are set by each plan's board of trustees. The boards are evenly divided between Teamster officials and representatives of the various companies, but on the Central States board, U.P.S. has only one trustee out of 10.
"This is a situation that needs to be addressed," Mr. Bolger said. "We are the growth engine for the Teamsters. We're hiring people."
In November, the Central States plan reduced benefits, citing several years of investment losses and the inability of small, marginally profitable trucking companies to make pension contributions.
"The union is doing everything in its power to pressure the employers to increase contributions," the five Teamsters on the board said in a letter to the members. "The strongest resistance to increasing contributions is coming from some of the Teamsters' most powerful employers." 
U.P.S. has quickly won support for its pension initiative in Washington. Bills were introduced in Congress by Representative Patrick Tiberi, Republican of Ohio, and Senator Saxby Chambliss, Republican of Georgia. U.P.S. is a leading employer in Ohio; its headquarters are in Atlanta. 
In November, Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, also made a show of support. U.P.S. operates a large sorting hub in Louisville and is one of Kentucky's largest employers. 
Mr. McConnell is married to Elaine L. Chao, the secretary of labor, who is responsible for enforcing the federal labor laws, including the 1980 pension law that U.P.S. hopes to amend. She is also the ex officio chairwoman of the pension agency and has expressed concern about the insurer's deteriorating finances. At the moment, the only part of the agency showing a surplus is its multiemployer division. That surplus could vanish if the government had to rescue thousands of retired Teamsters.
A spokesman for Ms. Chao said she had not yet taken a position on the multiemployer pension issue, but was able as a matter of routine to separate her own policies from the positions taken by her husband.
Labor and pension advocates are distressed at how quickly U.P.S. has built support for its initiative. 
"U.P.S. is a heavy hitter on the Hill," said Randy DeFrehn, executive director of the National Coordinating Committee for Multiemployer Plans, an organization that represents such plans in Washington. "They give a lot of money, and that gets a lot of attention."
Federal Election Commission records show that U.P.S. had the nation's largest corporate political action committee in the last election cycle, with $4.7 million in receipts and $3.6 million in disbursements.
U.P.S. says it is not trying to avoid paying pensions. On thecontrary, Mr. Bolger said, the company wants to protect its own employees' pensions, which are being diluted in the growing pool of overall Teamster benefits.
"We are trying to cover whatever we've negotiated in 2002," said Mr. Bolger, citing the year of the company's most recent labor contract. "But at the same time, we don't live in a vacuum. As part of a multiemployer plan, you have all these other companies that are going south."
The industry's demographics suggest that the situation will get worse. When the law governing multiemployer plans was enacted in 1980, there were four active Teamsters supporting every retiree, Mr. Bolger said. But the retirees now outnumber active workers.
Pension funds that have more retirees than active workers are difficult to sustain, because they can end up paying more each year in benefits than they receive in contributions from companies. The problem afflicts many multiemployer plans, either because the underlying industries have dwindled away, or because of shakeouts in which companies with union work forces have disappeared and been replaced by nonunion companies that did not join the pension plans.
Such companies have shunned the union pension plans, said Daniel F. McGinn, an actuary in Anaheim, Calif., who specializes in multiemployer plans. Since 1980, the law has required any company wishing to withdraw from a multiemployer plan to pay its share of any deficit. That has discouraged new companies from joining, Mr. McGinn said, cutting off the supply of younger workers who could generate money for the retirees' benefits.
The 1980 law is the one U.P.S. hopes to change.
"If they could separately account for their own workers, they'd be fully funded," Mr. McGinn said. "Every employer who feels that way is probably countered with one, two or three other employers in a dying industry."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Growing Payments"United Parcel Service's contributions to the Teamsters unions' pension plans have risen each of the last four years. Figures in millions '98 -- $757'99 -- $809'00 -- $897'01 -- $977'02 -- $1,028 (Source by United Parcel Service)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (56%) TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; LABOR; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (82%) UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC; INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS 

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (58%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%) SIC4215 COURIER SERVICES EX. BY AIR; 

PERSON: WALSH, MARY WILLIAMS 

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



415 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: A Brand New Aircraft in Search of Buyers 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

 BODY:
The Boeing Company, which is expected to announce plans today to market its 7E7 jetliner, faces the immediate and challenging task of finding buyers for the plane, a medium-range aircraft that is its first new plane in more than a decade.
 Boeing declined to say yesterday whether its board, which met Sunday and yesterday in Chicago, had given final approval to take orders for the plane. A second decision would be required before the 7E7 could go into production, but that would not be made before Boeing accumulated orders for the jet, nicknamed the Dreamliner. 
 Boeing said any announcement would come today in Seattle, where it was based until a few years ago. The company was widely expected to announce its plans to employees at Payne Field, the center of its operations there, and then hold a news conference. 
The meeting was the first for Boeing's new chief executive, Harry C. Stonecipher. He came out of retirement to succeed Philip M. Condit, who resigned on Dec. 1 in the wake of a scandal involving a fuel-tanker contract with the Pentagon.
Officials in Everett, Wash., Boeing's main manufacturing site, are eagerly awaiting word from Chicago headquarters on the proposed jet, which is designed to be 20 percent more efficient than the Boeing 757 it would replace. "We are on standby," said Kate Reardon, a spokeswoman for the Everett mayor's office.
Local officials have been lobbying for months to win the final assembly work for the plane, which has a sharply curved roof and a sloping nose. Instead of being produced under one roof, the 7E7 would be built in a modular assembly process.
Crucial pieces, like the wings, fuselage and tail, are being parceled out in sections to various plants in the United States, Canada and Australia. Other work has been awarded to companies in Japan and Italy.
All those sections would ultimately come together in an assembly project resulting in 800 to 1,200 jobs, a fraction of the 40,000 jobs Boeing has eliminated in the United States this year in the wake of slumping industry traffic and deep losses since the terrorist attacks of September 2001.
None of Boeing's American customers have yet expressed interest in the jet, which will seat 300 or more passengers in a one-class configuration with two aisles, compared with 280 passengers in the single cabin of a 757, which has one aisle. And just two international carriers, Japan Air Lines and Emirates, have indicated that they would like to discuss the plane with Boeing, once it decides to go forward with production.
Boeing has built more than 1,000 757 jets, but the last will be built in 2004. It decided to discontinue the 757 in October, only hours after Continental Airlines scrapped plans to buy 11 of the jets, ordering smaller 737's instead.
Nonetheless, Boeing executives were expected to go ahead with the 7E7 project, simply because they would otherwise see Airbus Industrie, their global rival, move out of sight in a vapor trail ahead of them. 
That may already be happening. The first 7E7 jet would go into service in 2008, while the Airbus A330, the 7E7's competition, is already in the fleets of Northwest Airlines, China Airlines and Austrian Airlines, among others.
Boeing has not introduced a jet since the 777 in 1990. Analysts say Boeing may have lost valuable time in the 90's working on two other, flashier jets that it ultimately canceled: the Sonic Cruiser, a supersonic plane, and the 747X, which would have been the successor to the 747 and a competitor to the giant A380 that Airbus is marketing.
On Monday, Airbus said Malaysia Airlines ordered six A380 jets, bringing total orders to 129 planes from 11 airlines. The A380, which would seat 555 passengers, will be delivered to customers in 2007.
Boeing should know by spring whether it has enough 7E7 orders to begin production, said David Fitzpatrick, a partner with Deloitte & Touche USA in Seattle. At minimum, it needs about 100 orders, and ideally 200 to 250, to move ahead, he said.
He said he did not think that airlines' dearth of interest now necessarily spelled trouble. "You can bet that there are people waiting to commit to this," Mr. Fitzpatrick said. "In the first few months, they should accumulate a good book of orders."
Airlines that make deals first often have an opportunity to get planes at a lower price than Boeing will try to charge later, when the plane's viability has been proved, analysts said. Boeing has not disclosed what a 7E7 would cost, or what kind of profit margins it can expect on the jet. Analysts estimate that it is spending a minimum of $7 billion on the project, and that it will probably earn an operating profit of 4 percent to 5 percent, half what Boeing earned in its most profitable years.
Aircraft manufacturers look at projects like the 7E7 as long-term investments, said Roman Szuper, a credit analyst with Standard & Poor's. Like the 757, which went into service in 1982, Boeing would be expected to build the 7E7 for the next 20 years, he said. 
"If the decision is correct," Mr. Szuper said, "they can pick up market share lost to Airbus." That company, a European consortium, is expected to pass Boeing for the first time in 2004 to become the world's biggest commercial aircraft maker. 
But he added, "If the decision is wrong, it could be very costly," not just for Boeing but for airlines that buy the plane. While the 7E7's sleek appearance and interior comfort will undoubtedly appeal to passengers, he said, airlines will place a higher priority on an attractive bottom line.
"The shape and features are a good thing," Mr. Szuper said. "But they have to have good economics and efficiencies."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 22, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about an expected announcement from Boeing on the marketing of its 7E7 jetliner misspelled the name of the airport in Everett, Wash., where the company has assembly operations. It is Paine Field, not Payne Field.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Associated Press); (Photo by Annie Marie Musselman for The New York Times) Chart:Boeing 7E7INTENDED USE: Designed to be more fuelefficient than existing planes. Boeing hopes to attract airlines that offer mainly nonstop flights.SEATING CAPACITY: 200 for three classes or 300-plus with one classREFUELING RANGE: 9,000 milesWING SPAN: 193 feetLENGTH: 182 feet Airbus A330INTENDED USE: Already one of the best-selling commercial aircraft. It is popular because it is inexpensive to operate and maintain.SEATING CAPACITY: 253 for three classes or 293 for two classes*REFUELING RANGE: 7,700 miles*WING SPAN: 197 feet, 10 inches*LENGTH: 193 feet, 7 inches* *For A330-200 model 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (89%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); MAYORS (71%); LOBBYING (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); TERRORISM (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (98%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (51%); JAPAN AIRLINES CO LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%); UAL (NYSE) (51%); 9201 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (51%) SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

PERSON: MAYNARD, MICHELINE; STONECIPHER, HARRY C

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



416 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 DOLLAR DROPS. The dollar fell against the euro on concern that low interest rates will deter foreign investors from buying United States financial assets. In New York, the euro settled at $1.2299, up from $1.2288 on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since July 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BONDS (85%) CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



417 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: EMC Acquires Software Maker For $635 Million 

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
The EMC Corporation took a significant step to broaden its business yesterday with the purchase of VMware for $635 million in cash.
 The purchase of VMware, analysts say, is part of the shift under way at EMC to become less dependent on data storage systems and to expand further into software as price pressures steadily erode the profitability of computer hardware. 
 The company has already made two software acquisitions in the second half of this year, spending $2.9 billion on the two all-stock deals. But Legato Systems, a maker of data backup and recovery software, and Documentum, whose software is used to manage all kinds of digital documents, are closely related to EMC's core business of data storage. 
VMware is more of a departure. The private company, based in Palo Alto, Calif., makes software that allows a computer to run different operating systems at the same time, or several versions of the same operating system. This kind of software, known as a virtual machine, has been used since the 1960's on mainframe computers. But VMware's technology is tailored for lower-cost machines powered by chips from Intel or Advanced Micro Devices, running Microsoft's Windows or Linux, an operating system distributed free.
Such low-cost server computers are increasingly common in corporate data centers, and VMware's software increases their efficiency, yielding further cost savings. The VMware purchase moves EMC into the market for server software at the heart of the data center.
"This represents a recognition by EMC that it needs to move into the mainstream of the data center instead of just trying to sell storage systems into it," said Galen Schreck, an analyst at Forrester Research.
Strategically, the VMware purchase is somewhat different from EMC's previous acquisitions, said Joseph M. Tucci, the chief executive. But the deal, he said in an interview, is part of his company's move to increase its software and services businesses and become less reliant on hardware. After Legato, Documentum and VMware are brought into the fold, Mr. Tucci said, EMC will derive more than half of its revenue from software and services.
"We've made a pretty big turn," he said.
Just how far EMC, which is based in Hopkinton, Mass., can extend its reach into data-center computing is uncertain. Its goal is to use virtualization software to make servers and storage systems work more smoothly and efficiently. But analysts say that in pursuing that strategy, EMC will confront larger companies with long experience and large services divisions, like Hewlett-Packard and especially I.B.M. The services capability, they add, can be crucial for solving the complex computing problems that large companies increasingly encounter these days.
"EMC has spent a lot of money on good technology, but it still doesn't have anything like I.B.M.'s services arm," said Peter Gerr, an analyst for the Enterprise Storage Group, a research firm.
Still, as Mr. Gerr noted, picking up VMware is "a real coup for EMC."
Indeed, VMware is a leader in a technology that is regarded as an important building block in making computing a more flexible and easily managed pay-as-you-go utility. Its industry partners include I.B.M., Hewlett-Packard and others.
The company, with 370 people, will have revenues of nearly $100 million this year, and it has been profitable for nearly two years. It has been a magnet for skilled computer scientists. 
VMware was seen as a prime candidate among Silicon Valley start-ups to command a hefty price tag in a public offering of its shares. But Diane Greene, the chief executive, noted that VMware was regarded by venture capitalists as "an old-fashioned software company" when it started in the late 1990's, during the bubble years. It raised almost no venture financing, so its founders, not venture capitalists, were free to determine the best route forward.
The EMC deal, Ms. Greene said, seemed to be the best way to give VMware the additional resources it needed for rapid growth with the fewest conflicts that might hamper the business. Other companies were interested in VMware, including I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard. Last year, Microsoft made an offer for VMware, but the Silicon Valley company turned it down, partly out of concern that Microsoft would make VMware a Windows-only product, Ms. Greene said.
Ms. Greene would not comment on other offers. But I.B.M. sellsboth server computers and operating system software, and Hewlett-Packard is a leading producer of server computers. The purpose of virtualization software like VMware's offering is to be a layer that eliminates the tight bond between hardware and software.
"There was less potential conflict with us," Mr. Tucci said. "We're not going to get into the operating systems business, and we're not going to get into the server computer business." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (90%); NETWORK SERVERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (77%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: EMC CORP (98%); VMWARE INC (90%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (55%); INTEL CORP (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EMC CORP; VMWARE 

TICKER: EMC (NYSE) (98%); VMW (NYSE) (90%); AMD (NYSE) (55%); AMD (FRA) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%); HPQ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%) SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES; 

PERSON: JOSEPH M TUCCI (58%) LOHR, STEVE

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



418 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
The Complex Metamorphosis Of American Foreign Policy

BYLINE:  By JAMES CHACE; James Chace teaches international relations at Bard College. His new book, "1912 -- Wilson, Roosevelt, Taft & Debs: The Election That Changed the Country," will be published in May.

 BODY:
AMERICA UNBOUND
The Bush Revolution in Foreign Policy
By Ivo H. Daalder and James M. Lindsay
246 pages. Brookings Institution. $22.95.

HEGEMONY OR SURVIVAL
America's Quest for Global Dominance
By Noam Chomsky
278 pages. Metropolitan Books. $22.
 "It would be an irony of fate if my administration had to deal chiefly with foreign affairs, for all my preparation has been in domestic matters," Woodrow Wilson remarked as he left his home in Princeton, N.J., for his inauguration as president in 1913. But that was precisely what fate had in store for him. The same might be said for George W. Bush, who has become a war president, determined to imprint democratic values in the Middle East while wiping out terrorism in that region and then worldwide. At best the Americans will be seen as "democratic imperialists," struggling in a quixotic crusade to make the world safe for democracy. 
 In "America Unbound," two highly respected foreign policy experts, Ivo H. Daalder, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, and James M. Lindsay, director of studies at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, have written a splendidly illuminating book on "the Bush revolution" and the doctrine of unilateral intervention and pre-emptive war.
Buttressed by extensive research, the authors demonstrate convincingly that Mr. Bush is not the puppet of the vice president or the Defense Department hawks. He has fundamental beliefs that have reversed America's six-decade commitment to internationalism. His foreign policy for the 21st century marks a decided preference for unilateralism.
As the authors describe it, his policy rests on two beliefs: "The first was that in a dangerous world the best -- if not the only -- way to ensure America's security was to shed the constraints imposed by friends, allies, and international institutions." The second belief was that "an America unbound should use its strength to change the status quo in the world." 
This does not mean that America need always act alone. When unilateral actions seem impossible or unwise, Mr. Bush will seek allies, but not to make decisions that would require their approval. His preferred approach is to seek ad hoc "coalitions of the willing," what Richard Haas, a former adviser to Secretary of State Colin Powell, has called "a la carte multilateralism." 
What Mr. Daalder and Mr. Lindsay document is the change from Mr. Bush's "realist" vision of the uses of American power to an ideologically driven policy, a kind of muscular Wilsonianism. The idea that power dictates a nation's interests is central to realist theory. Since we live in a dangerous world, defined as one close to Thomas Hobbes's view of life as a "war of all against all," the realist sees policy as dealing with the world as it is rather than as it ought to be. Power, in the hegemonists' view , is "the coin of the realm even in a globalized world." The nation-state is still alive and well, and great powers matter the most. 
As Mr. Bush once argued, "The big issues are going to be China and Russia." With the unrivaled military and economic power of the United States, "security in the world is going to be how do we deal with China and how do we deal with Russia." American power would allow the United States to act unilaterally without fear or favor as long as other powers were not capable of seriously challenging it. These views, the authors say, were held by advisers like Vice President Dick Cheney and the National Security Adviser, Condoleeza Rice: the "assertive nationalists."
Mr. Daalder and Mr. Lindsay single out the deputy secretary of defense, Paul D. Wolfowitz, and Richard Perle, a member of the Defense Policy Board, often referred to as leaders of the neoconservative wing of the administration, as arguing that America should "actively deploy its overwhelming military, economic, and political might to remake the world in its image -- and that doing so would serve the interest of other countries as well as the United States." 
The "assertive nationalists," on the other hand, were "deeply skeptical of nation-building," and scorned the notion "that American power could create what others were unable to build for themselves." After the attack on the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001, this policy changed and came to reflect the notion that America had to fight terrorism by changing the hearts and minds of those who supported the terrorists, and that nation-building might, after all, be required in order to accomplish this. Hence the emergence of democratic imperialism, first in Afghanistan and then in Iraq.
What also emerged was the so-called Bush doctrine of "pre-emption." In his commencement address at West Point on June 1, 2002, Mr. Bush laid to rest the hallowed policy of deterrence, which had emerged from America's struggle to contain the expansion of the Soviet Union in the nuclear age. In combatting terrorism, "deterrence -- the promise of massive retaliation against nations -- means nothing against shadowy terrorist networks with no nation or citizens to defend." 
Containment therefore was dead. Now there was a need to "confront the worst threats before they emerge," Mr. Bush said. "In the world we have entered, the only path to safety is the path of action. And this nation will act." 
The doctrine of pre-emption represented a major departure in American foreign policy. As Mr. Daalder and Mr. Lindsay, as well as Noam Chomsky in his book "Hegemony or Survival," warn, the Bush strategy has conflated the idea of preventive and pre-emptive war. Preventive wars are initiated by countries against states that have not yet been attacked. Israel's strike against Iraq's Osirak reactor in 1981 is an example of this. There was no evidence that Iraq was about to strike Israel. Pre-emptive wars are begun when another country is clearly about to attack. Israel's war in June 1967 against its Arab neighbors was just such a war. Mr. Bush's oratory -- and his justification for the Iraq War -- is an example of a preventive war, not a pre-emptive one. 
Mr. Chomsky, a professor of linguistics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who has written widely on foreign affairs, exaggerates his portrait of America as an evil empire; nonetheless, he is acute in his conclusion that pre-emptive or preventive wars can encourage smaller nations to protect themselves from an American attack by acquiring their own weapons of mass destruction, and particularly nuclear ones. 
Rather than turning away from international agreements to curb nuclear proliferation (for example, blocking negotiations at the United Nations Conference on Disarmament in 2001), the Bush administration, he says, would be well advised to concentrate its efforts on controlling the militarization of space. Such a policy shift, however, seems hardly likely for a president less disposed to being a sheriff leading a posse than a lonely gunslinger riding off to seek another showdown with the enemy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); FOREIGN POLICY (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); WRITERS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LITERATURE (77%); TERRORISM (54%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (91%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) CHACE, JAMES (PROF); DAALDER, IVO H; CHOMSKY, NOAM; LINDSAY, JAMES M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

TITLE: AMERICA UNBOUND: THE BUSH REVOLUTION IN FOREIGN POLICY (BOOK);

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



419 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Rebuilding Iraq With Clean Hands 

BYLINE:  By Claudia Rosett; Claudia Rosett is a senior fellow with the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies.

 BODY:
With Saddam Hussein finally in custody and the future of Iraq looking a little more secure, we're hearing calls for President Bush to rip up the list of countries that the United States has deemed eligible to bid on prime contracts for rebuilding Iraq. Mr. Bush should stick to his guns; that list of 63 countries, all of whom helped the American-led coalition, was good policy. But it's important to be clear about why it is a good idea -- because in the pinata grab for the $18.6 billion in reconstruction contracts, some basic points have gotten lost.
 First, it is wrong of critics to frame inclusion on the list as a "reward" to our allies, or to say that countries left off it, like Russia, France and Germany, are being "punished." Taxpayer-financed contracts should never be doled out as a reward -- that is precisely the kind of mind-set the United States needs to be trying to banish from Iraq, where the previous regime operated entirely ran on patronage. 
 Rather, the list is predicated on deciding which countries can best be trusted to oversee huge rebuilding contracts in ways that square with the American goal of promoting a stable, free Iraq. As Mr. Bush put it, "friendly coalition folks risked their lives, and therefore the contracting is going to reflect that." Assistant Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz noted another prime concern: "protection of the essential security interests of the United States."
There's been little in the last year to suggest that Russia, France and Germany share any of these goals. There is plenty of evidence, however, that they constitute an Axis of Avarice. Remember, plenty of money flowed through Saddam Hussein's Iraq, starting with the big debts the dictator ran up in the 1980's before the Persian Gulf war and the subsequent United Nations sanctions. Many countries took part in that frenzy of lending, including Japan as the No. 1 sovereign lender. Then came Russia, France, Germany and, yes, the United States as No. 5.
However, in the 1990's, as the Iraqi dictator's depravities became increasingly evident to the rest of the world, that list narrowed. Under the United Nations oil-for-food program, the despot got to tap his preferred business partners. And over the course of the seven-year program -- involving the sale of $65 billion worth of oil and purchase of more than $39 billion worth of supplies and services -- he turned to contractors in the countries that ultimately proved most energetic in protesting his ouster: Russia, France and, to a lesser extent, Germany and China. 
What began as a relief program for Iraqis suffering under sanctions turned into a multibillion-dollar contracting business flowing through the shrouded books of the United Nations. By the end, the Russians were selling the Baathist elite luxury cars, the French were providing broadcasting equipment for the Information Ministry and the Germans and Chinese worked on the phone system.
The United Nations refused to disclose anything beyond the generic details of the contracts -- the public still doesn't know the actual names of the contractors, what they earned and what they shipped to Iraq. Now, with control over the remains of the program shifting to the Coalition Provisional Authority, those records should be released. 
Not only should the Iraqi people know what their money went for, the data could provide an illuminating context for the current Russian, French and German indignation over the American contracting list, and for the diplomatic jousting of the past year. Full disclosure might also help us figure out which foreign contractors were deeply complicit with the Baathist regime and which simply shipped in rice at a reasonable price.
In any case, Old Europe's indignation over the list is a marvel of hypocrisy. When Saddam Hussein specified under the oil-for-food program that that the billions generated by the program all flow through one French bank, BNP Paribas, French President Jacques Chirac did not indignantly demand, in the interest of fair play, that the business be divided among banks of various nations. It is also curious that Russia, which in its own post-tyranny days received billions in aid, only to default on its debt 1998, is now demanding back from free Iraqis every nickel it cheerfully loaned to the dictator. 
This is not to say the list is perfect. Saudi Arabia is among the 63 countries included, which conjures intriguing visions of the bin Laden family's construction business making a bid. The list could be improved by breaking it into two tiers, with countries that are making the transition to democracy (Poland, Romania and Mongolia for example) getting preference over dictatorships (like Uzbekistan). Staying flexible is important: keeping open the option of revising the list could provide greater leverage for James Baker, who has been tapped to persuade Russia, France and Germany to forgive loans made to the former regime. 
Perhaps the capture of Saddam Hussein will convert the Axis of Avarice into whole-hearted investors in the cause of a free Iraq. But in a free and fair society, state-financed contracts need to serve the customers, not the contractors -- and certainly not the heads of state who howl loudest and contribute least.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sam Weber) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (85%); TRENDS (73%); DESERT STORM (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (59%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%) ROSETT, CLAUDIA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (90%); GULF STATES (79%) IRAQ; RUSSIA; FRANCE; GERMANY#000T031218SRAQA01# 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



420 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Oracle Quarterly Earnings Beat Estimates by a Penny

BYLINE:  By LAURIE J. FLYNN 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 15 

 BODY:
Oracle reported better-than-expected earnings on Monday because of new licenses for its software and increased corporate spending in the slightly stronger economy. The company posted net income of $617 million for the second quarter, or 12 cents a share, compared with $535 million, or 10 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 8.2 percent, to $2.5 billion from $2.3 billion a year earlier. 
 The company's earnings were a penny better than Wall Street had expected. Revenue from licenses for new software, considered a gauge of growth, rose 13 percent in the second quarter, to $849 million from the period a year ago. Last quarter, the company had forecast that new license revenue for the second quarter would rise at most 7 percent. 
 "Business optimism seems to be improving for the first time in several years and that should improve technology spending," Jeffrey O. Henley, Oracle's chief financial officer, said in a conference call. "The market is starting to pick up a little bit." Mr. Henley also said the weak dollar helped lift revenues.
The company's stock fell 13 cents to close at $12.70 before it released the earnings report. In after-hours trading, Oracle's shares rose as high as $13.04. 
The strong quarter comes as Oracle continues to pursue its hostile takeover of PeopleSoft, which acquired J.D. Edwards, another competitor in the business software market, in July. PeopleSoft is now second in that market, behind SAP of Germany. 
The United States Justice Department is still reviewing the proposed $7.3 billion merger of Oracle and PeopleSoft. The European Commission began a separate review of the deal in November. Mr. Henley said Oracle, based in Redwood Shores, Calif., expected to receive approval from both those agencies early next year. 
"We continue to believe we've made a good case to Justice and the E.C.," Mr. Henley said. "We're optimistic at this point."
The company said new license sales of its application software, the business segment in which it competes directly with SAP and PeopleSoft, increased 27 percent, to $137 million, up from $108 million a year earlier. New sales of its database software rose almost 11 percent, to $712 million. 
Oracle executives said that 36 percent of its license revenue for the quarter were from deals valued at $500,000 or more.
"It's tough sledding out there," said Lawrence J. Ellison, Oracle's chief executive. "It's extremely competitive. There is an upturn, but the upturn is not dramatic."
The strong quarter follows a particularly disappointing first quarter, when the company posted a 6.7 percent decline in new license revenue. At the time, the company attributed the fall to unexpectedly slow sales in August as well as a reorganization of its North American sales force. 
But for the second quarter, Mr. Henley said the North American business showed considerable improvement, with sales rising 8 percent. "The North American market bounced back nicely," Mr. Henley said. "It led the growth." 
Eric Upin, an analyst with Wells Fargo Securities, said that Oracle's results showed corporate customers that the company had momentum despite its performance in the first quarter. "They far exceeded guidance in the most important area: new licenses," he said. "As the third-place player, I think there was a lot of importance placed in them being able to make the numbers."
In providing guidance, Mr. Henley said the company expected earnings of 11 cents to 12 cents a share for the third quarter ending in February 2004, roughly flat with a year ago. Revenues are expected to grow 7 to 10 percent and new software license sales are expected to rise 5 to 15 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "It's tough sledding out there," Lawrence J. Ellison, Oracle's chief executive, said yesterday. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (89%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); MERGERS (76%); US DOLLAR (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); SALES FORCE (68%); SALES & SELLING (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%) COMPANY REPORTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: ORACLE CORP 

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (79%) ELLISON, LAWRENCE J; FLYNN, LAURIE J 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



421 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Fall on Disappointing Sales Figure at Wal-Mart

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Stocks sank lower yesterday as disappointing sales at Wal-Mart Stores Inc. chilled the retailing sector and eroded early gains after the weekend capture of Saddam Hussein, the fallen Iraqi leader. 
 Stocks traded briskly on news that Mr. Hussein was in custody, but the rally was short-lived. The major indexes shot up initially but steadily retreated as investors focused on domestic matters. 
 "This is a geopolitical event that gave us a nice short-term blip, but it wasn't the kind of news that would drive us to even loftier levels," said BrianWilliamson, an equity trader at the Boston Company Asset Management.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 19.34 points, or 0.2 percent, at 10,022.82. 
The broader gauges were also lower. The Nasdaq composite index was down 30.74 points, or 1.6 percent, at 1,918.26, after surging nearly 1 percent earlier in the day. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 6.10 points, or 0.6 percent, at 1,068.04.
Overseas, the Nikkei stock average in Japan finished 3.2 percent higher. 
The reaction to news of the arrest was more muted in Europe, where major indexes lost ground after rising about 1 percent early in their sessions. The CAC-40 in France closed up 0.6 percent, the FTSE 100 in Britain rose 0.01 percent and the DAX index in Germany ended the day 0.4 percent higher.
The dollar also had a midsession reversal, rising early before plunging to a new low against the euro. Gold rose in Europe, but later declined in New York.
"These psychological things, like the Dow crossing 10,000 and the capture of Saddam Hussein, are exactly the types of things we need to draw individual investors from the sidelines," said Jeffrey Kleintop, chief investment strategist for PNC Advisors of Philadelphia.
Few were warmed by the news from Wal-Mart, which lost $1.76 to close at $50.74. 
Wal-Mart said that December sales growth at stores open at least a year was near the low end of its projected range of 3 percent to 5 percent and that traffic was down for the week.
Oracle closed down 13 cents at $12.70, but gained 33 cents in after-hours trading after its quarterly earnings report beat analysts' expectations by a penny. 
The company, which announced the results after the market's close, said profits were up on rising demand for its business software.
Dial rose $2.50, to $28.38, on news that it had agreed to be acquired by Henkel, the German consumer products group, for about $2.9 billion in cash. The acquisition of Dial, which makes Dial soap, Renuzit air fresheners and Armour Star canned meats, would give Henkel a bigger foothold in North America.
McDonald's lost 36 cents, to $25.42, after saying that it would sell some non-McDonald's names like the Donato's Pizzeria chain to focus more on its primary brand.
Decliners outnumbered advancers nearly 2 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange. Trading volume was 1.46 billion shares, up from 1.22 billion on Friday.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Decline
(By Reuters) -- Treasury bond prices were lower yesterday on upbeat comments from the president of the Richmond Federal Reserve, J. Alfred Broaddus Jr., that the economy was likely to post stronger-than-expected growth in the fourth quarter.
By late in the day, the benchmark 10-year note lost 4/32 to 99 30/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.26 percent from 4.24 percent on Friday. And the 30-year bond was off 1/32 to 104 3/32. Its yield was unchanged at 5.10 percent. Here are the results of the Treasury's auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.776	99.505	High Rate	0.885	0.980	Investment Rate	0.903	1.000	Low Rate	0.850	0.940	Median Rate	0.870	0.965	Total applied for	$37,919,440	$33,584,225	Accepted	$20,563,140	$19,286,520	Noncompetitive	$1,351,733	$1,011,636	

Both issues are dated Dec. 18, 2003. The three-month bills mature on March 18, 2004 and the six-month bills on June 17, 2004.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); POLISH & SANITATION GOODS MFG (83%); CURRENCIES (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ARRESTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (69%); EURO (64%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE#000T031218SRAQA01# 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (93%); BOSTON CO ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (57%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (93%); PNC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (93%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%) SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (90%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (75%); UNITED STATES (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



422 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: In Grip of Economic Decline, Venezuela Seeks Stability 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: CUA, Venezuela 

 BODY:
Trucks once wheezed along these streets, loaded with goods from the factories that flocked here in the 1970's when the government sought to make Cua a manufacturing hub. 
 From rubber to car parts to paint and concrete -- it was all made in this town, about an hour from Caracas along a winding highway, by workers who came to live in new, dormitory-style apartments. 
 Now, with Venezuela's economy in the throes of its worst year in decades, plants have closed, workers have been laid off, and the grass is overgrowing in the industrial parks here. In the worst cases, like at the once-sprawling Cardio Foam mattress factory, installations have been cannibalized by laid-off workers. 
"These were our clients," said Augusto Trotta, 43, owner of a metal works factory that sold to companies here, as he slowly maneuvered his beat-up car along the Marin industrial park. "If they wanted to grow, we would do the additions. Now we have almost lost them all."
Economists expect that Venezuela's economy, which has been rocked by protests and political turmoil, will contract at least 11 percent this year. It is an economic freefall that, at least statistically, is even more dramatic than Argentina's, which drew gasps in the global financial market when its economy imploded in 2002 under the strain of a public debt of $132 billion.
The government of President Hugo Chavez, a leftist who promised to take away the elite's privileges and lift most Venezuelans from poverty, blames a series of national strikes and an attempted coup in 2002 for the country's downfall. 
But Mr. Chavez also boasts that Venezuela is on the mend, creating jobs and improving lives. In a recent speech before a group of businessmen who support him, he called the last few months of economic activity "something truly incredible."
"The year 2004 for Venezuela will be a year of economic growth that some say could reach 10 percent," Mr. Chavez said. 
Economists in the United States put the potential growth lower, at perhaps 7 percent next year. The high price of oil and the reactivation of Venezuela's oil production, which had ground to a halt in the last anti-Chavez strike earlier this year surely will help.
Still, the growth comes after a contraction of 20 percent over the last two years.
"You grow 5, 7 percent, that's nothing," said Rafael de La Fuente, chief Latin America economist with BNP Paribas in New York. "You're not even where you were two years ago."
The pace of recovery could have much bearing on whether Mr. Chavez, whose five years in office have been marked by tumult, will remain in power.
Hissupport remains strong by Latin American standards, with at least one poll showing that he has the support of 40 percent of Venezuelans. But a broad opposition accuses him of polarizing Venezuela and wrecking the economy with leftist rhetoric and inept management. The president's foes say they have collected enough signatures to set off a recall referendum, which could take place in April.
An uptick in Venezuela's economy, even if largely insignificant, could prove politically useful in helping the government claim it has restored order. And Mr. Chavez, who has been re-elected once already and who has said he will run again when his six-year term ends in 2006, has been on the offensive to shore up support, increasing social spending and painting his foes as unpredictable oligarchs. "The government has recuperated some governability this year," said Ana Maria Sanjuan, a sociologist at the Central University in Caracas who is critical of both the president and his adversaries. 
Throughout the country, the middle class -- perhaps a quarter of Venezuela's 25 million people -- has been battered by a fall in investment and rising unemployment, now officially at 20 percent. The real power of wages has fallen precipitously because of inflation. A 46 percent slide last year in the currency, the bolivar, against the American dollar has been driving the problem.
Young professionals have moved back in with their parents. Many of those laid off from office jobs have joined the growing millions who work in the informal sector, selling T-shirts or pirated compact discs on the streets of Caracas.
David Kroboth, 40, a civil engineer who once worked on contract for Petroleos de Venezuela, the state oil company, had to pawn his and his wife's wedding rings to pay for a new gear box on his car, which he drives around Caracas looking for fares. He also took a daughter out of her high-priced school and moved the family into his grandparents' home.
Not all the economic indicators are dour. Venezuela's reserves remain healthy, at $20 billion; the country pays its debts; and Venezuela's bonds are selling briskly, drawing praise from some Wall Street analysts.
But those same analysts say the economy is far from stable. Though oil production rose from barely 25,000 barrels a day to 2.6 million daily in the months after the strike, according to oil analysts, production is still down 9 percent in the third quarter from the comparable period last year, the Venezuelan central bank recently said. And oil accounts for a third of the country's gross domestic product.
The nonoil sector shrank 6 percent in the third quarter, with manufacturing down 9.9 percent, commerce falling 10 percent and the all-important construction industry, which employs more than a million people in good times, contracting 34 percent.
Tight exchange controls -- put in place to stem capital flight, strengthen the bolivar and halt inflation -- have also restricted hard currency and, some businessmen say, squelched investment.
"It will not be an economy which is healthy by any definition," said Michael Gavin, chief Latin American economist for UBS in Stamford, Conn.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ricardo Estrada foraged the grounds of a former mattress factory, looking for anything salvageable. Many plants have closed, workers have been laid off and the grass is overgrowing in the industrial parks. (Photo by David Rochkind/Polaris, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); COUPS (87%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); RIOTS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TRENDS (73%); POLITICS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; LABOR; STRIKES; COUPSD'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (51%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (51%); BNP (BIT) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (89%) CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES); FORERO, JUAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) VENEZUELA

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



423 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: THE CAPTURE OF HUSSEIN: FINANCING; 
France Says It Is Willing to Make Deal on Iraq's Foreign Debt

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 15 

 BODY:
Seizing the initiative a day after the announcement of Saddam Hussein's capture, France said it would work with other nations to forgive an unspecified portion of Iraq's immense foreign debt.
 The offer, as much a conciliatory gesture to Washington as a hand extended to Baghdad, came a day before James A. Baker III, a former secretary of state, was scheduled to arrive in Paris to ask the French for help in relieving Iraq of its crushing financial obligations. Washington is eager to lift the debt burden, estimated at more than $120 billion, excluding war reparations owed to Kuwait and Iran, because it will otherwise raise the cost of an Iraqi economic recovery beyond America's means. 
 "France, together with other creditors, believes there could be an agreement in 2004," the French foreign minister, Dominque de Villepin, told reporters after a meeting here with members of Iraq's interim Governing Council. He said if various conditions regarding Iraq's sovereignty and stability were met, his country "could then envisage cancellation of debts in line with Iraq's basic financing capacity." 
Jalal Talabani, an Iraqi Kurdish leader and a member of the Iraqi delegation visiting Paris, called Mr. de Villepin's announcement a "gift."
But Mr. de Villepin's statements went little beyond France's past statements that as head of the Paris Club, it would treat Iraq's debt problems as it would those of any other overly indebted country. The Paris Club is an association of 19 industrialized nations formed in 1956 to coordinate the cancellation of debts for financially distressed countries.
He reiterated that there could be no deal until there was a sovereign Iraqi government in place with which to negotiate one -- something that will not happen before June.
By announcing France's intentions to the Iraqis on Monday, though, Mr. de Villepin avoided the appearance of answering to Washington's call on Tuesday. "This way he can say, 'I'm not doing it because the Americans are asking for it but because I believe it's the responsible thing to do for the Iraqis,' " said Dominique Moisi, an expert in French-American relations at the French Institute for International Relations.
The French foreign minister, one of the diplomatic world's sharpest critics of Washington's Iraq policy, also seemed eager to strike a conciliatory note in the wake of Mr. Hussein's capture. Taking the lead on the debt-reduction issue is the quickest and easiest way for him to put France back in the Iraq reconstruction game on Washington's side.
"The arrest of Saddam Hussein constitutes a chance that we all must take advantage of," Mr. de Villepin said. "France is ready to play a full role in these efforts and to follow the action already undertaken on a bilateral basis as Europeans in the humanitarian domain, of course, and in the cooperative domain, whether it be education, health or even archaeology."
He brushed aside questions about whether debt forgiveness would be linked to participation in $18.6 billion in American-financed reconstruction contracts in Iraq. He said the two issues were separate.
Washington has excluded France and other past opponents of the war in Iraq from lead roles in such deals. France, Germany, Russia and other affected countries are studying whether the move violates rules governing global trade.
He did not, however, offer to send French troops to help secure Iraqi stability, repeating instead France's offer -- so far ignored by the United States -- to build a police school in the troubled country.
France has been slow to extend financial aid to Iraq as long as that country remains under United States occupation. France was not among those countries that pledged billions for Iraqi reconstruction at a donors' conference in October, and, until today, it had been silent on the question of Iraq's debt, about $3 billion of which is owed to France, not including interest.
Standing together with members of Iraq's Governing Council, including the current holder of its rotating presidency, the Shiite leader Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, Mr. de Villepin said his country would work with the Paris Club to negotiate a debt reduction plan for Iraq.
The Paris Club includes the United States, France, Germany, Russia and Japan. In its most generous deal ever, it agreed to forgive two-thirds of Yugoslavia's debt after President Slobodan Milosevic was driven from power. The World Bank has suggested that the same percentage be applied to Iraq. Even then, the country's debt would be about three times its annual economic output.
Paris Club members collectively hold about $40 billion of Iraq's outstanding debt. The balance is mostly interest that has accrued since then. Much of the rest of the country's $120 billion debt is owed to Arab states.
Japan, which is owed more than $4 billion, not including interest, has yet to indicate whether it would go along with a write-off.
Russia, which is owed nearly $3.5 billion, excluding interest, said Monday that it supported a Paris Club resolution to Iraq's debt problem. Germany, which is owed about $2.5 billion, excluding interest, said last month that it supported forgiving a portion of the debt.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dominique de Villepin, left, the French foreign minister, met with Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, the president of Iraq's Governing Council. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (59%) TERRORISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: PARIS CLUB (82%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (90%); JALAL TALABANI (57%) SMITH, CRAIG S; DE VILLEPIN, DOMINIQUE (MIN); BAKER, JAMES A III 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) FRANCE (99%); IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ; FRANCE#000T031218SRAQA01# 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



424 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: THE CAPTURE OF HUSSEIN: THE OUTLOOK; 
Joy Fades as Iraqis Chafe Under a Grim Occupation

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

DATELINE: MAHAWIL, Iraq, Dec. 15 

 BODY:
In the evening gloom, on a dirt track a quarter mile from this country's largest killing field, the two brothers spoke of the need for answers.
 They wanted Saddam Hussein to tell them -- to tell all of Iraq -- why the bullet-scarred remains of more than 3,000 people had been dug up here last summer. They wanted to know why one of their cousins was among those found, why this cousin had disappeared 12 years earlier while buying flour at the village market, why members of the Baath Party had killed so many of their own countrymen. 
 Those were the easy questions. 
More important, said the brothers, Dhiya and Ayad Abed, they wanted to know why life had gotten worse for them since the American-led forces ousted Mr. Hussein. Why did they lack electricity and fuel, why were there no jobs, why were armed bandits roaming the streets?
"It was inevitable that he be captured," said Dhiya Abed, 27. "There was no other way for this to end. But the Americans have to do something for us because things are worse than before."
The Abed brothers and others in this rural area provide a sobering glimpse into the impact of Mr. Hussein's capture on Iraqis, including those who suffered enormously under his rule. The joyous bursts of gunfire that echoed throughout parts of Iraq on Sunday are already a distant memory. Many people are left wondering how they will push on with their daily lives in a country controlled by a foreign power and filled with political and economic uncertainty.
Nowhere do those concerns seem more ominous than in this village, about 50 miles south of Baghdad, where many families lost members to execution squads. The bodies at Mahawil began accumulating in 1991, during the ill-fated mass uprising against Mr. Hussein. This is the largest of the country's more than 260 potential mass graves identified by human rights workers.
So one would expect the people of Mahawil to be clamoring for accountability from the imprisoned Mr. Hussein. They are, but they are clamoring even louder for accountability from the American occupiers.
"I'm against the Americans," said Alaa Abdul-Nabie, 25, as he drove some visitors along a palm-lined dirt road to one of the mass graves. "I'm a Muslim and Iraq is an Islamic country. The Americans should get out of Iraq and let the Iraqi people build their own country and do what they should do. The Americans don't have a pretext to be here now that Saddam Hussein has been captured."
Mr. Abdul-Nabie stopped the car next to a length of concertina wire protecting the graves. He lit a cigarette and glanced at the burial mounds, many marked by scraps of clothing -- a pair of boots here, a torn shirt there.
"People who refused him, he just buried them," he said. "Saddam had authority over all Iraqis, and because he had authority, what could people do?"
Few things illustrate the brutality of Mr. Hussein's rule more potently than the mass graves. He will undoubtedly be called on to explain them during his trial, whenever that takes place. Though senior American and Iraqi officials are saying Mr. Hussein will be brought before an Iraqi-led criminal tribunal, some residents of Mahawil said they preferred to see him judged in an international court.
"Of course he should answer for this; he had to know about these graves," said Muhammad Moussa, a Sudanese worker at a poultry farm near the graves. "I think he should be taken to trial in an international court. Not only have Iraqis suffered under him, but other people too."
Down the road, the Abed brothers echoed those sentiments while reflecting on their family's loss. Their cousin went to the market one day in 1991, they said, and was inexplicably picked up by local Baathists. The Abeds did not know his fate until they found his remains 12 years later.
Mr. Hussein, Mr. Abed said, "should be taken to an international court.
"We're not in a situation where we can have an Iraqi court," he added. "Naturally, the graves should come up. Most of the people were innocent and didn't do anything."
But the brothers did not dwell on the subject. There were more pressing matters, they said. Ayad, 21, a law student at Babylon University, waved his hand at the gathering darkness. "There's no electricity," he said, clutching two textbooks to his chest.
On the highway running past Mahawil, two policemen watching over traffic were preparing to end their shift. It was too dangerous to stay out past dark, they said.
"Saddam was a great personality," said one of the guards, Uthman Eddan. "He ruled the country for 35 years. Now, there is no security, and you can't even trust your friends."

GRAPHIC: Map of Iraq highlighting Mahawil: The mass graves at Mahawil are a reminder of Iraq's misery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENOCIDE (85%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); SHOOTINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); TERRORISM (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); TRENDS (71%); POLITICS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); RELIGION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%) WONG, EDWARD; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ; MAHAWIL (IRAQ)#000T031218SRAQA01# 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



425 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY; 
AIDS After 'Angels': Not Gone, Not Forgotten

BYLINE:  By DUDLEY CLENDINEN; Dudley Clendinen, a former national correspondent and former editorial writer for The Times, is co-author, with Adam Nagourney, of "Out for Good: The Struggle to Build a Gay Rights Movement in America."

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, Dec. 15 

 BODY:
The young clerk at one of the video stores near me vanished last month, after two-and-a-half years in which he went from noticeably thin to gaunt, with red welts that appeared and disappeared, and a personality that changed, behind the counter, from polite to brittle, and then to something more like silent, angry, embattled and sad.
 Season to season, sun or snow, he was solemn and pale. When I saw him on the street, he was alone. He seemed out of sync. He lived in a very gay section of a city and state with gay rights laws. There were newly famous queer guys on television, advising straight guys on romance and life. The Episcopal Church U.S.A. had elected a gay bishop. And my parish, Memorial Episcopal, had begun blessing the unions of same sex couples. 
 The gay condition was thriving. But the clerk was not well. His job was his anchor, and he hung on. He worked the Monday and Tuesday of his last week, his manager said, and was taken to a veterans hospital on Wednesday morning, when he could no longer pull himself out of bed. He died there two or three days later, of AIDS. Jonathan. Gone. 
It made me sad. I could not remember the last time someone had died of AIDS. But there was a period of 15 years in this country, beginning in 1981, when it happened all the time, especially in big cities.
Men -- lovers, friends, acquaintances, colleagues, the faces you were accustomed to seeing at parties, bars, in symphony orchestras, in dance companies and behind the counters of familiar stores -- would vanish, often with terrifying speed. You'd have dinner with a friend, or go to bed with someone you'd met, and next you knew, they were dead.
There was a slim, ginger-haired, sinewy young writer, a pert-nosed 30-something with ambition and sense of pizazz, whom I remember. We spent a little time together. A few months later, a mutual friend told me he was Robert Mapplethorpe's lover, and he was dead. Went to his parents' country house for the weekend on Thursday, came down with a wheeze and fever on Saturday and was gone by Tuesday.
A virus was invading the culture. No one knew how. You just prayed it didn't get you. Tony Kushner's great drama "Angels in America," first staged on Broadway a decade ago and broadcast on television in a six-hour HBO production these last two Sunday nights, has brought these memories flooding back, and they break like waves on the shores of a much-changed reality.
As I watched and remembered, I thought of the video clerk, because his death seems so unusual in America today, and because, in his physical appearance and in his aloneness on this earth, he seemed so much like Prior Walter, the handsome, sandy-haired WASP played by Justin Kirk in "Angels." "I want Louis," Prior says, lying on the stark white rectangle of his hospital bed, the oxygen hissing into his face mask as the watching camera prepares to retreat toward heaven, where angels and understanding wait. "I'm dying," he says, frightened. "I'm dying. Where's Louis?"
Louis has left him. "Angels in America" begins in the mid-1980's, in the Reagan era, when the president uttered not a word about AIDS, and lovers and strangers alike ran from the disease. When married men like me were just beginning to accept that they were gay, and ought not to be married. When many parents could not accept that.
"You ought to go home to your wife right now," Meryl Streep, as the Mormon mother Hannah Pitt, tells her son when he calls in desperation at 4 a.m. from a pay phone in Central Park to tell her he is homosexual. "We will just forget this phone call."
It was a time when politicians, influence peddlers, professional, business and traditional adults of all kinds simply did not believe that they, their children or anyone else could be gay, and have respect, or happiness -- much less admit to having AIDS.
"And what is my diagnosis, Henry?" Roy Cohn, the ruthless, legendary power broker, right-wing lawyer -- and rapacious but unacknowledged homosexual -- rasps, after his friend the doctor has examined the red marks on his body, his swollen glands and the fungus on his tongue.
"You have AIDS, Roy," the doctor replies.
"No, Henry, no!" says Cohn, who in real life counted Republican presidents, Roman Catholic cardinals, J. Edgar Hoover and the infamous Senator Joseph McCarthy as friends, and who came to look, in his last years, like the portrait Dorian Gray kept in his attic. "AIDS is what homosexuals have. I have liver cancer."
The Roy Cohn character, portrayed with such manipulating mastery by Al Pacino, was right about one thing. In the United States -- and therefore as far as the American culture knew -- AIDS was a plague among homosexuals. Walt Odets, a clinical psychologist in Berkeley, Calif., who counts more than 120 patients lost to AIDS over the years, remembers one week when four of the eight men in his therapy group died. There was no effective treatment, and so, to prevent the spread, gay men began to use condoms, and to curb their promiscuity.
"When people would come to me, newly diagnosed, the common response was: 'I'm never going to have sex again. It would kill me if I knew I infected someone else.' I heard that over and over again," says Dr. Joel Gallant, who started treating patients at the University of California at San Francisco in the 1980's, and is now associate director of the AIDS Service at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.
It wasn't until 1990, when the first of successive international conferences on AIDS was held abroad, that an understanding of the disease as a global and mainly heterosexual epidemic began to dawn. But the mounting death toll among gay men in the United States -- and the striking lack of sympathy expressed during the Reagan and then Bush administrations -- drew legions of angry homosexuals from the closet into the gay rights movement during the 1980's and early 1990's.
It was the AIDS crisis that finally made the rest of the population aware how many gay Americans there are. And it was the swelling need for AIDS research and treatment which became the gay cause that politicians could support in return for gay money and votes.
By the time "Angels in America: Millennium Approaches" opened on Broadway in 1993, gay votes had been critical in electing a president, Bill Clinton, but the first heralded AIDS miracle drug, AZT, had failed. The virus had grown resistant. It wasn't until the beginning of 1996 that the first effective AIDS drugs began to become available. By then, long-term survivors like Sean Strub were near death.
Mr. Strub, founder of the highly regarded POZ magazine, published as the national voice of men, women and children with the disease, is certain he contracted the virus in 1978, when he sought treatment for a high fever, sweats and swollen glands. He was 20 then. He is 45 now. By the estimate of the United Nations AIDS program, about 31 million people around the world have died of AIDS in that 25 years.
When Mr. Strub began taking the new drug Norvir in early 1996, he had Kaposi's sarcoma lesions in both lungs and was about as close to death as an AIDS patient can get and still recover. He had been unhealthy, sometimes acutely sick, for 18 years. But within days, he began to get well. And rather quickly, everything changed.
The new protease inhibitors, in combination with older drugs, can be adjusted to counter and repress whatever structure the virus assumes. In the United States and affluent Western European countries, people infected with the virus who have access to good doctors and good drugs can now expect to live to be old.
The resultant changes have been profound. As science made the AIDS virus a more and more manageable condition, drugs became the focus of private desire and public policy, and the earlier, hard-won focus on prevention was lost.
Homosexuality has gained huge acceptance in the American culture, but now that AIDS is seen as controllable, and so many infected men are living apparently successful lives, homosexual men have lost much of their fear of being infected, and of infecting others. Dr. Gallant says he never hears patients worry about spreading the virus to others anymore. As a result, the rate of infection among gay men has begun to climb.
Half the new infections in the United States, said Dr. Peter Piot, executive director of the United Nations AIDS program in Geneva, are among blacks. And for the first time, he said, "half of the people living globally with AIDS are women." In the United States, Western Europe and everywhere around the world, heterosexual transmission of the virus is on the rise. The devastating spread of AIDS among women has left 13 million orphans. There are now an estimated 42 million people infected worldwide.
Science has made progress, but the commitment of governments and economies has greatly lagged the crisis, and the gap has left medical experts like Dr. Gallant, 45, gloomy. "We are never going to keep up with this epidemic," he said. "We are always going to be running behind it. This is a global catastrophe. I don't expect to see the end of it in my lifetime."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 8, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An essay in Science Times on Dec. 16 about changes in the lives of people with AIDS since the mid-1980's, when the play "Angels in America" was set, referred incorrectly to the history of President Ronald Reagan's public statements about the disease. He indeed mentioned it in public in the mid-1980's; occurrences included a directive by the president in 1986 for the surgeon general to prepare a major report on AIDS that would outline research efforts and ways to seek a cure for the disease.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Emma Thompson descends to earth in this month's HBO two-part production. (Photo by Stephen Goldblatt/HBO)(pg. F1); On Broadway in November 1993, Ellen McLaughlin played the angel and Stephen Spinella was Prior Walter in "Angels in America: Perestroika." (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (97%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); LGBT RIGHTS (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (65%); DANCE COMPANIES (64%); DANCE (64%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Theater; Homosexuality; Research; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%) Johns Hopkins University; University of California (San Francisco)

PERSON: Dudley Clendinen; Tony Kushner; Joel (Dr) Gallant

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



426 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Better Life on the Horizon, But for Now, No Daughter

BYLINE:  By NIA-MALIKA HENDERSON

 BODY:
On the first night in their two-bedroom apartment, So Ching Chan and her husband, Yun Sang Lau, slept on the floor. They made a bed of blankets and crumpled-up plastic bags. Their dinner table was a piece of cardboard. Their meal was two cans of soup. 
 Far from their native Hong Kong, they were also miles away from the Harlem shelter where they had spent the last 10 months. That evening in November 2002 was their first hopeful night in America. 
 "We were happy because we had our own home," Mr. Lau, 52, said in Cantonese, speaking through an interpreter. 
But that milestone, 16 months in the making, was tinged with sadness. The couple could do without household furnishings, but they could not fill the void left by their daughter, now 17, who did not come home that night. 
And on a recent evening, as they talked over hot tea about their rise from unemployment and homelessness to steady work and affordable housing, their daughter's struggle with school and life in New York was never far from their minds. 
Indeed, several attempts were made to contact their daughter, Yung Yung, last week, but her family could not locate her.
Ms. Chan, 50, and her husband say they wish things were different. They left Hong Kong in search of a better life for Yung Yung. But, in many ways, the couple are piecing together a life for themselves as their teenage daughter goes her own way. Ms. Chan spoke of lingering hurt. Mr. Lau spoke of disappointment. But still, they have faith. 
"She is rebellious, and we don't know what to do," Mr. Lau said. "But our daughter knows that we love her and we just want her to finish high school."
In Hong Kong, the family, which includes a 22-year-old son, moved into government-subsidized housing after Mr. Lau's plastic flower company foundered in 1987, shortly after Yung Yung was born. Apprehension about moving to the new community was strong.
"We didn't want to move into that area because there were always lots of teenagers hanging out," Mr. Lau said. "But we didn'thave a choice, because the rent was very low."
Yung Yung struggled in school. By middle school, she was hanging out with the "bad, cool crowd," Mr. Lau recalled. She skipped school regularly and often fought with her mother.
But in America, Yung Yung's parents thought, she could start anew. 
"She promised to come here and to finish college," Mr. Lau said.
In July 2001, Ms. Chan and her daughter, then 14, moved to New York with four suitcases between them, and one goal -- to find a good education for Yung Yung. Mr. Lau and the couple's son stayed behind. 
The plan was simple. Ms. Chan and her daughter would move in with Ms. Chan's sister and brother-in-law in Brooklyn and find a good school for Yung Yung, and all would be well.
But soon after they arrived, the plan changed. An unmade bed and a messy room greeted Ms. Chan and her daughter when they reached Brooklyn. It was clear to Ms. Chan that to her sister, she and her daughter were a burden. Six days later, they moved out. 
Next stop, Chinatown, where Ms. Chan's mother lives in a one-bedroom apartment. Yung Yung shared her grandmother's bed, and Ms. Chan slept on the couch. Ms. Chan missed home, her husband and her son. And Yung Yung went through the motions at school. Finally, in December 2001, Mr. Lau arrived with his son, who has since returned to Hong Kong to finish paying off school loans. Mr. Lau brought two suitcases, $2,000 and the hope that he could find a job and a home for his family. Fearful of being too bothersome, the family moved into a Harlem shelter. 
"We had no income," Mr. Lau said. "Our daughter was coming and going. We had to get food from a church pantry. I don't want to remember that time."
In the shelter, the family lived in a small studio unit that was cold in the winter and uncomfortably hot in the summer. Yung Yung mostly stayed away, flouting shelter rules about signing in and signing out.
"People would ask us where she was, and we would say, 'She's coming back,' " Mr. Lau said. But often, Yung Yung avoided returning to the shelter and hardly made it to school. Mr. Lau hunted for work, and Ms. Chan, who had been a homemaker for 22 years, began taking classes in English as a second language and met Kityee Mui, an instructor with the Educational Alliance. 
The alliance is affiliated with UJA-Federation of New York, one of the seven charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Ms. Mui taught Ms. Chan in an introductory English class and found that Ms. Chan was having problems not only in class, but also in home life. 
"One day she broke the news that she was living in a shelter," Ms. Mui recalled. "I became their informal counselor."
When housing finally became available, the family moved out of the shelter to an apartment in East New York, Brooklyn, in November 2002. Ms. Mui witnessed their triumphs as they moved out of the shelter and as Mr. Lau found a job at a Chinese food factory. While working there, he is studying to become a medical assistant. Toward that end, Ms. Mui is obtaining $500 from the Neediest Cases for textbooks. 
Ms. Chan is training to become an early-childhood assistant and hopes to become a baby sitter. 
Though they still have moments of sadness about their daughter's adolescent struggles, Ms. Chan and Mr. Lau are intent on setting an example for Yung Yung by pursuing their own career goals.
And even though their path has been rough, and their plans often derailed, Mr. Lau and Ms. Chan seem to agree on what they want for the future: "We wish to be better," Mr. Lau said.

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $4,121,330.63
Recorded Thursday: $66,220.00

Total: $4,187,550.63
Last year to date: $4,456,661.28

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yun Sang Lau and his wife, So Ching Chan, immigrated from Hong Kong to New York in 2001. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (72%); ADOLESCENTS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (67%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

ORGANIZATION: Uja-Federation of New York

PERSON: Nia-Malika Henderson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



427 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: City Faces More Deficits, Comptroller Says 

BYLINE:  By Michael Cooper (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
 The local economy appears to have pulled through the recession, but New York City still faces budget gaps in the next few years, the city comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., reported yesterday. 
Next year's gap, which the Bloomberg administration put at $1.8 billion, could rise to $2.3 billion if Gov. George E. Pataki wins his court battle to halt a deal for the state to take over the city's debt from the 1970's. The next year's gap will be $3.4 billion to $3.9 billion, the report said. Michael Cooper (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); BONDS (83%); LITIGATION (83%) Suits and Litigation; Government Bonds; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Michael Cooper; George E (Gov) Pataki; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; William C Jr (Comptroller) Thompson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



428 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan Forecast: Shades of Snow 

BYLINE:  By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
At one crucial point in the new hit film "Something's Gotta Give," Diane Keaton, who plays a writer reawakened to love in the late stages of midlife, implores Jack Nicholson to liberate her from a particularly choking turtleneck. The sweater, like nearly everything else in the closet of her character Erica Barry'sdreamy Sagaponack home is cirrus-cloud white, a color chosen to remind viewers that she has lived untouchably high up above the hills and dales of her own emotional need.
 Since "Saturday Night Fever" it is hard to recall when the color white has played a more aggressive role in a movie's costuming. Curiously, "Something's Gotta Give" arrives just at a moment when white is regaining status in the wardrobe of the urbane sort of woman Ms. Keaton portrays, if not an indication of a mass movement toward romantic aloofness, then certainly a sign of renewed economic optimism. 
 All along upper Madison Avenue right now, stores like Chloe, Searle and Jimmy Choo have used their windows to persuade the world to dress in ivory, cream and oatmeal. At Ralph Lauren even baby clothes are laid out in those colors -- although few babies could wear them and actually eat oatmeal, or for that matter much of anything. Part of the current advertising campaign for Banana Republic highlights white ponchos, earmuffs, pantsuits, gloves and purses. On the street, Manhattan women have developed a suddenly vigorous appetite for parkas, tailored cashmere coats, trousers and sweaters in that same palette, vulnerable as it is to the icy, airborne goop of a New York winter.
"I've been running the wholesale business for eight years and this is the first time winter white has really meant something," said Rick Weinstein, director of sales for Searle, which has shops on the Upper East Side and also sells its clothes to department stores like Saks Fifth Avenue. Searle had to reship a basketweave white peacoat to Saks after it quickly sold out. A satiny quilted white Searle coat appears to be the uniform for young East Side mothers running errands. And a particular zippered cashmere cardigan, Mr. Weinstein said, is selling more briskly in white than it is in any competing color. 
White gloves have done well for the company, too. "That was the real shocker for me," said Steve Blatt, Searle's president. "I didn't support white gloves. I thought they were a joke."
What has motivated the woman of 2003 toward white stems in some part from a fatigue with its opposite. "Younger people, the people born in the 80's, have lived through a whole generation of black," said Jaqui Lividini, senior vice president of fashion merchandising at Saks. "They're tired of it and at the same time the baby boomers are nostalgic for the colors of the 60's," she said, pointing out that she herself was attired that day in a white fuzzy sweater, oatmeal-toned pants and a snow-white fur and leather jacket from Marc Jacobs's current collection.
Although women were not especially enthusiastic about the overly literal space-age wear churned out by designers in their Mod collections this season, the clothes helped to reignite an interest in white.
So too has the more sanguine financial climate. "White confirms that there is greater consumer confidence both literally and symbolically," said Rita Nakouzi, a senior consultant for Promostyl, an international trend-watching firm. "The psychology of it is very important," Ms. Nakouzi said. "White says, 'I have money, I can keep what I'm wearing clean.' "
And indeed, with the amount of capital required to keep white garments looking unsullied all season long, one could probably buy a few new Maytag washers and dryers.
A few weeks ago, Charles Lops, general manager of Jeeves of Belgravia, the famously meticulous uptown dry cleaner, greeted a customer with a severely stained white satin evening gown and a matching coat. "I had never seen so much wine on one garment in my life," Mr. Lops recalled. The outfit took three weeks to clean, he said, because chemicals would have saturated and ruined it had it been worked on more quickly. The cost of the cleaning was $500. "That was one horror," Mr. Lops said.
He has seen his share of others. But what astounds him is how easily his customers dispense with their money to keep their white clothes looking as though they've never been worn. He sees a particularly popular stretch-cotton men's shirt from Prada often. "It's $40 every time you wear that shirt," Mr. Lops said, "and people don't bat an eyelash." One woman who visits Jeeves arrives with a three-quarter-length white coat with fur trim every three to four weeks for a cleaning at a cost of $250 each time.
White also implies that the wearer has a wardrobe large enough to cycle items in and out while the white garments are held up for weeks at a time at the dry cleaner's.
Women less flagrant in their spending seem to wear their white garments on a limited basis. Karen Wolf, a young woman who was trying on shoes at Bergdorf Goodman last week, said she'd allowed herself to wear her white wool coat that morning because she had the day off and could avoid the perilous grime of a subway commute. White is not the color of free spirits who wake up to days unplanned.
But nor does it belong solely to neurotics like Ms. Keaton's character. Strolling down Madison Avenue last Friday, Sheryl Lieberman described what had led her to buy a white parka at Bloomingdale's this season. "I'm happy, I'm in love, I'm sober, I'm spiritual," Ms. Lieberman said. "I've gotten over two failed marriages and I said I'd never wear white again. Then all of a sudden, I wanted a white coat."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Among the women in winter white are Lisa Gastineau; Bettina Misrepahi at Barneys; Lisa Jagroop-Mooto; and Deirdre Bader in Searle's popular quilted coat.; Winter whites, from left, worn by Sheryl Lieberman; in the Ralph Lauren window display on Madison Avenue at 71st Street; and on Karen Wolf, shopping at Bergdorf Goodman. (Photographs by Christopher Smith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (77%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (77%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (72%); RETAILERS (72%); FASHION DESIGNERS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); EXECUTIVES (62%); BABY BOOMERS (60%) Apparel

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (71%) Ginia Bellafante

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



429 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Panel on Terror Calls for Board On Protecting Civil Liberties 

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15 

 BODY:
A federal commission on terrorism recommended on Monday that the White House establish an independent bipartisan panel to review whether new laws and regulations proposed by the government might infringe on civil liberties.
 While not directly criticizing the Bush administration for antiterrorism policies that have been widely condemned by civil liberties advocates, the panel said the federal government needed to "make special precautions, take extra steps, to ensure that we do not cross the line" in the name of defeating terrorism. 
 The four-year-old federal commission, led by James S. Gilmore III, a former Republican governor of Virginia, said in a final report issued on Monday that President Bush should create a "civil liberties oversight board" with a bipartisan membership that would "provide advice on any change to statutory or regulatory authority" that might infringe on civil liberties. 
The creation of a civil liberties panel was one of dozens of recommendations in the final report of the 17-member commission, known formally as the Advisory Panel to Assess Domestic Response Capabilities for Terrorism Involving Weapons of Mass Destruction, which was assisted by the RAND Corporation.
The panel, created by Congress in 1998, is scheduled to go out of business early next year. Its mandate is similar in many ways to that of another federal commission created last year by Congress to investigate the Sept. 11 attacks. That commission, led by former Gov. Thomas H. Kean of New Jersey, is also reviewing broad issues of federal counterterrorism strategy and is expected to issue a final report in May.
The so-called Gilmore commission said it was especially concerned about the civil liberties implications of the growing domestic use of the military and its surveillance technology in counterterrorism operations within the nation's borders.
"It now becomes essential for the Congress to legislate and for the Department of Defense to implement through clear procedures the limitations on the use of satellite imagery and other advanced technology monitoring in the United States," the panel said, adding that the government had an "increasing reliance on more sophisticated technology that has vast potential for invading our privacy."
"As more terrorist attacks occur, the pressure will rise to lessen civil liberties, albeit with different labels," the report said.
Trent Duffy, a White House spokesman, said that in responding to the Sept. 11 attacks, "the protection of civil liberties has been a fundamental mission; it's one we take seriously."
Asked whether the White House would support the Gilmore commission's call for a special oversight panel, he said, "We wouldn't want to rule anything in or out."
The commission had praise for elements of the government's response to the Sept. 11 attacks, including the creation of the Department of Homeland Security, which it said had led to improved counterterrorism planning. But the report said that the commitment of the government and the public to combating the possibility of terrorist attacks on American soil "appears to have waned."
"The Department of Homeland Security and other governmental agencies at all levels are working diligently to prevent future terrorist attacks," the report said, but it added that the federal government lacked a "clear prioritization for the use of scarce resources against a diffuse, unclear threat." 
A spokesman for the Homeland Security Department, Brian Roehrkasse, said that the government's antiterrorism efforts had not faltered and that the new department had "already initiated a lot of what is recommended in this report."

GRAPHIC: Photo: James S. Gilmore III, leader of the federal commission on terrorism. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (68%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (64%) Terrorism; Law and Legislation; Freedom and Human Rights; Surveillance of Citizens by Government; Privacy; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

COMPANY: RAND CORP (68%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (68%)

PERSON: JIM GILMORE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Philip Shenon; James S III (Gov) Gilmore; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



430 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; 
If Anyone Wondered, Yes, Bush Is Running

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15 

 BODY:
With Election Day less than 11 months off, President Bush largely turned aside questions about politics during his news conference on Monday, then offhandedly did something he had generally avoided doing so explicitly: refer to himself as a candidate for re-election.
 "I would absolutely seek the office again," Mr. Bush said in response to a question about whether he would have run for president in 2000 had he known what the next few years would hold. "I intend to do so in '04, by the way." 
 Mr. Bush's intentions have been obvious all along -- he said over a year ago that Vice President Dick Cheney would be his running mate again -- and his comment at the news conference was more an aside than his taking a turn at one of the rituals of presidential politics: the formal declaration of candidacy.
But it highlighted a political challenge facing the White House as the campaign heats up: how to respond to the waves of criticism directed at Mr. Bush by the Democratic presidential contenders and their supporters without giving up the mantle of above-the-fray national leader. 
For years, incumbent presidents went through the motions of formal announcements long after the suspense was gone. Mr. Bush's father announced his intention to seek re-election on Feb. 12, 1992, less than nine months before he was beaten by Bill Clinton. Ronald Reagan declared his candidacy for a second term on Jan. 29, 1984.
In contrast, Mr. Clinton never stood up and said he was a candidate in 1996 -- a strategy, his aides said later, to hold him out of the line of partisan fire as long as possible.
The Bush White House's political team has kept its thinking on the subject to itself. Many strategists in both parties say Mr. Bush may well emulate Mr. Clinton and avoid defining himself as a candidate, even if that means leaving to surrogates, for months to come, the task of responding to Democratic attacks, which have come early and with particular intensity in this election cycle.
"It's a tough balancing act," said David Winston, a Republican pollster. "When you announce, you become a candidate and you officially enter the political fray. On the other hand, the velocity and level of the animus from the Democrats have created a political dynamic earlier than we have seen before."
Though he began raising money and giving what amount to campaign speeches last spring, Mr. Bush regularly suggests that he is too busy running the country to pay much attention to politics, while eager to join the battle when the time is right. "I'm loosening up," he often tells donors at fund-raising events.
During his news conference on Monday, he was asked several questions about politics and the political implications of his policies. In response to one such question, concerning Iraq, he said that "I look forward to the political debate later on" but that "my answer is going to be the same until I'm ready to engage." That answer, he said, is, "Forget politics."
He made an exception, though, when he was asked about remarks by Howard Dean, who is now seen by White House political aides as the most likely Democratic nominee, suggesting that Mr. Bush might have had information beforehand that the country was under threat from the kind of attacks that ultimately occurred on Sept. 11, 2001. In response to that question, the president paused. Then he called Dr. Dean's comments "an absurd insinuation."
Mr. Bush also used the news conference, which was dominated by questions about the capture of Saddam Hussein, to set out elements of his election-year agenda, among them pressing Congress to pass his proposals allowing more domestic oil and gas drilling, and curbing lawsuit awards against doctors and companies.
Mr. Bush portrayed the economy as strengthening. He called on Congress to do more to cut the growth of government spending and so reassure the financial markets, which have been driving down the value of the dollar in part because of concern about rising budget deficits. But he left open the possibility that he would propose more tax cuts next year.
He repeated the administration's projection that the budget deficit will be cut in half over the next five years; many Democrats and some fiscally conservative Republicans in Congress describe that forecast as unrealistic.
He also said he was working on developing an immigration policy that would address the status of illegal immigrants, though he pronounced himself "firmly against blanket amnesty." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FUNDRAISING (72%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); DICK CHENEY (73%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



431 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Safest Big City in the Nation? Once Again, It's New York 

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN

 BODY:
For the second year running, New York is "the undisputed safest large city in the nation," Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said happily yesterday at a news conference where he and his police commissioner released federal figures showing that the city has continued to push crime down more aggressively than most major cities.
 New York has the lowest overall crime rate among cities with more than one million people, according to their presentation of the preliminary Uniform Crime Report compiled by the Federal Bureau of Investigation for the first half of the year. 
 Crime dropped 7.4 percent in New York City, the statistics show, compared with 3.1 percent in the nation as a whole, and 4.4 percent in cities with a population greater than a million. The murder rate was up slightly in New York, as it was nationwide, but the city's rate was still far below its peak in 1990. 
The city's crime index, a figure adjusted for population, is on par with much smaller cities, like Ann Arbor, Mich., and ranks 194th out of 200 cities with more than 100,000 residents, making it one of the safest. 
The mayor asserted that the recent resurgence in the economy and tourism was a result of the falling crime rates. "Our outstanding success in fighting crime over the last two years is the biggest reason why the Big Apple is coming back," Mr. Bloomberg said.
He listed Police Department programs that responded to petty crimes and noise, as well as antigun initiatives and several programs that use courts and city agencies to focus on certain crimes and repeat offenders. 
The police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, stressed that the department had reined in offenses with 4,000 fewer officers than it had three years ago, and with 1,000 of the current 36,000 officers assigned to counterterrorism. He cited programs like Operation Impact, which floods small problem areas with patrol and anticrime officers. "Index crimes in Operation Impact zones are down 33 percent," he said, referring to the index of major crimes that includes murder, rape and grand larceny.
But Mr. Kelly added, "That reduction has not come without a price." He and the mayor spoke of Rodney J. Andrews and James Nemorin, two detectives shot to death during an undercover drug operation in March, and five other officers shot in the line of duty this year. 
For the mayor, the continuing decline in crime will almost certainly be a major part of his platform as he runs for re-election. In public appearances at churches and neighborhood groups, he rarely fails to mention the statistics in his speeches. 
George Arzt, a Democratic political consultant and former press secretary to Mayor Edward I. Koch, said that even though the numbers have been going down since about 1990, the crime rate was still important to voters.
"People do care, especially people with memories of city streets in the 70's and 80's," Mr. Artz said. "And I think that we all feel a great deal of comfort in this uncertain world when we see crime rates going down."
Most of the decrease in New York came from a drop in property crimes -- violent crime dropped only 3.3 percent. From January through the end of last week, murders were up slightly, 2.3 percent, compared with the same period last year. That corresponded to a national trend in the first half of the year: murder, alone among violent crimes, was up 1.1 percent, according to the F.B.I. report.
Still, city officials expect the number of murders to be under 600 for the second year in a row. At one time, members of the department say, just getting the number below 1,000 had the same psychological significance, and air of impossibility, as the Dow Jones Industrial Average's breaking 10,000 did before the Internet boom. 
As if to pre-empt any questions that might arise about the murder rate, the news conference was held in the station house of the 44th Precinct in the Bronx, a borough where, the mayor said, murders had decreased 20 percent this year. 
Other violent-crime categories stayed virtually flat as well. The number of rapes in New York for the first six months of this year, 758, was only 4 fewer than in the same period last year. Through last week, incidents of rape were down 1.4 percent. Nationwide, violent crimes decreased at a greater rate than property crimes did.
Gov. George E. Pataki also released statewide figures yesterday showing that in New York State crime had gone down 5.5 percent.
Nationally, according to the F.B.I. numbers, one more category of crime proved resistant to the overall downward trend -- car thefts went up a smidgen, 0.9 percent. In New York City, however, car thefts were down 12.5 percent through last week. 
Criminologists view murder and auto theft rates as bellwether statistics, because they are generally the most accurate. There is little discretion in how to classify them, and people are more likely to report an auto theft than other property crimes.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 20, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about New York City crime statistics gave an incorrect spelling at one point for the surname of a Democratic political consultant who discussed the political importance of dropping crime rates. He is George Arzt, not Artz.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael R. Bloomberg in the 44th Precinct in the Bronx, a borough where, the mayor said, murders declined 20 percent this year. F.B.I. statistics show that New York's crime rate is in decline. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B3) Chart:The number of murders in New York City has leveled off after a sharp decline from 1990 the 40-year high. Graph tracks numbers of murders in New York City since 1990 through Dec. 7. (Source by New York City Police Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (95%); POLICE FORCES (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MURDER (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); CRIME STATISTICS (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); STATISTICS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); MISDEMEANORS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); SHOOTINGS (74%); COUNTERTERRORISM (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TERRORISM (50%) Crime and Criminals; Murders and Attempted Murders; Crime and Criminals; Robberies and Thefts; Assaults; Police; Sex Crimes; Economic Conditions and Trends; Travel and Vacations; Crime and Criminals; Urban Areas

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Shaila K Dewan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003 



432 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 487 words

PERSON: Oscar Schachter 

HEADLINE: Oscar Schachter, 88, Law Professor and U.N. Aide 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Oscar Schachter, who helped frame the legal underpinnings of the United Nations and taught at Columbia University Law School for the last 28 years, died on Saturday in Manhattan. 
 He was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side. 
 The cause was complications of heart disease, his family said. 
He held leading legal positions at the United Nations from its inception, joined the Columbia faculty in 1975 and, at his death, was Hamilton Fish professor emeritus of international law and diplomacy. He continued to teach until the spring semester of 2003. 
"Professor Schachter did more than any other official of the United Nations to help shape the rule of law," Secretary General Kofi Annan said, adding that he was the "architect of the legal framework which has guided United Nations peacekeeping for more than 50 years." 
Professor Schachter went to the United Nations from the State Department and was a counsel and drafting officer for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration until 1946. 
He then became deputy director and in 1953 director of the United Nations general legal division and legal advisor to a succession of secretaries general of the United Nations. 
From 1966 until 1975 he was the deputy executive director of the Institute for Training and Research, which trains United Nations personnel and people sent by their governments to do work relating to the international organization.
Professor Schachter wrote books and dozens of monographs and articles on international law and institutions, legal philosophy, world peace and security, and international resources. 
Oscar Schachter, a native New Yorker, graduated Phi Beta Kappa from City College in 1936 and from Columbia Law School, where he was a Kent scholar and first in his class of 1939. 
He was in private practice and worked for other federal offices before the State Department employed him in 1942 as an advisor on wartime economic controls and liberated European areas.
A counsel for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration beginning in 1944, he was sent on missions to Poland and Russia the following year. In 1946 he joined the United Nations as a legal counselor.
Professor Schachter also served as a guest lecturer at Yale Law School from 1955 to 1971. He was appointed a professor at Columbia's law school and faculty of international affairs in 1975, was named Hamilton Fish professor in 1980 and given emeritus status in 1985.
He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a past president of the American Society of International Law.
Professor Schachter is survived by Dr. Muriel L. Sackler; two daughters, Dr. Judith Schachter of Pittsburgh, and Ellen S. Leventhal of Manhattan; a brother, Marvin, of Pasadena, Calif.; a sister, Honey Zimmer of Brooklyn; and four grandchildren. His first wife, Mollie Miller Schachter, died in 1980. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); LAW SCHOOLS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%)

SCHACHTER, OSCAR (PROF); SAXON, WOLFGANG 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%)

CATEGORY: Law 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



433 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: AIDS Costs in South Africa Are Rising 

BYLINE:  By NICOLE ITANO 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Dec. 16 

 BODY:
As the AIDS epidemic devastates South Africans, the rising costs of the disease are leading not only to higher insurance premiums and reduced benefits, but also to questions about how best to balance the economic viability of the insurance industry with the government's desire to improve access to financial services and create a bigger private social safety net.
 In the early days of the epidemic in the United States, many American insurers offered dire predictions about the damage it would do to the insurance system that never came to pass, in large part because infection rates never reached the levels that were feared. 
 In South Africa, however, the virus has spread much further. The country's total population is only about one-sixth that of the United States, but it is estimated to have more H.I.V.-infected people -- an estimated five million, making it the country with the largest number of people living with H.I.V. or AIDS. 
 The insurance industry, dominated by a few big companies, is having to adjust to a business climate in which 12 percent of the total population, and 20 percent of adults, are infected with a fatal, transmissible disease at a time when profit margins were already shrinking from intensifying competition. 
 Though apartheid ended nearly a decade ago, the South Africans who are covered by life and health policies are still mostly wealthy and white, the part of the population that generally has been least affected by AIDS. 
 According to a study released in November by FinMark Trust, which does research on access to financial services in South Africa, only one person in six here has medical insurance, and only one in five has ever had life insurance.
 Still, in the last year or so, the impact of the disease has been felt increasingly even in the relatively affluent insured segment of the population.
 Improved access to life-prolonging antiretroviral drugs could change the picture significantly, as it has in Europe and North America. A small but increasing number of companies, including major employers like AngloGold and De Beers, are already offering such treatment to their employees, and health insurance plans generally pay for the treatments for those lucky enough to have coverage. But it is the rollout of the national treatment program that was approved in November by South Africa's cabinet that is expected to make the most difference.
 "Treatment is now being regarded as a cost-effective option," said Stephen Kramer, who is head of the H.I.V./AIDS research unit at Metropolitan Life, one of the first South African insurers to examine the AIDS issue aggressively. "We've modeled it over a number of years, and even with a high degree of failure, you still save money."
 Still, it will be years before the antiretroviral treatment program's full effects are felt. In the meantime, AIDS remains a challenge for the insurance industry and a sticky issue for South Africa's government, which wants to expand services without bankrupting employers or insurance companies.
 Analysts say the biggest insurance squeeze is being felt in employer-provided group health and group life plans, which generally cover all of a company's workers regardless of their health status.
 Stephen Watson, executive director of Fusionary Integrated Risk Solutions, a consulting firm here that helps companies reduce life and disability premiums, said many of his clients, especially those with blue-collar work forces, have had big H.I.V.-related increases in premiums in the last 15 months or so.
 "About 40 percent of my clients are coming because they're already seeing cost increases," Mr. Watson said. "The other 60 percent are coming because they don't have a problem yet and want to prevent one."
 Researchers say that unless antiretroviral treatment becomes widespread, the situation will only worsen. According to Metropolitan's H.I.V./AIDS unit, the cost of employee benefits, which typically include health, life and disability insurance and funeral plans, will double between 2000 and 2005. And by 2010, when the number of AIDS deaths in the country is expected to peak, the cost will be triple the 2000 levels.
 Many companies are shifting more of the cost burden to employees by moving from defined benefit to defined contribution plans, while others are raiding pension plans.
 "The scary thing for employees is that it's forcing many of them to opt out of benefits because they're becoming unaffordable," said Chris Barker, managing partner of the FutureForesight consulting firm.
 (Insurers and employers say the shift happened more than a decade ago at the urging of labor unions, which wanted employees to reap any benefits from the investment of pension and life funds.)
 Issuers of individual insurance policies are more able to protect themselves from H.I.V.-related costs. Most major life insurers will issue a standard policy only to H.I.V.-negative people, and an increasing number require follow-up tests to retain coverage. Although a few companies have started offering individual plans for H.I.V.-positive people, they are expensive and highly restrictive.
 South African medical insurers are more heavily regulated and are not allowed to discriminate based on health status. But they often cap coverage, increase premiums or introduce mandatory waiting periods before coverage takes effect .
 Although employers generally have been slow to recognize the potential problems of AIDS, insurers began taking steps to protect themselves more than a decade ago. Besides the private life insurance plans that require H.I.V. tests, some funeral plans, the most widely used type of insurance in South Africa, have added AIDS exclusion clauses to their policies. And health insurers put caps on AIDS-related care.
 Many similar steps were taken in the 1980's in the United States, where H.I.V. infection continues to be cited in refusals to issue life insurance policies.
 AIDS "has had an impact, but we have been actively monitoring it," said Peter Moyo, deputy managing director of Old Mutual South Africa, one of the country's largest life insurers, "so we're still ahead of the curve."
 Human rights campaigners take particular issue with the testing and the life insurance exclusion. They also point out that without life insurance, many people cannot qualify for home loans, and they are pushing Parliament to prohibit mandatory H.I.V. testing for life insurance.
 According to Gerhard Joubert, executive director of the Life Offices' Association, a life insurer trade group, fewer than 5 percent of all applicants are denied coverage because they are H.I.V.-positive.
 While medical insurance premiums are rising for several reasons, including new laws requiring companies to cover a variety of expensive diseases, life, disability and funeral benefits costs are rising almost exclusively because of AIDS, experts say.
 The link between costs and the numbers of people insured has not been fully explored. But according to the FinMark Trust survey, 3.8 million South Africans say they no longer have medical, life, disability or other insurance.
 The insurance industry is looking at several options to address financial access concerns and prevent greater regulation. 
 Among the ideas, is a plan that would require new homeowners to buy a life insurance policy worth up to 120,000 rand ($18,700) -- in effect having non-H.I.V.-positive people subsidize the rates for the H.I.V.-positive.
 In the long run, however, many insurers are looking to the antiretrovirals. With widespread treatment, experts say, AIDS should eventually be considered a long-term chronic illness rather thana fatal disease.
 "The better they know it and the better the treatment," Mr. Joubert, of the Life Offices' Association said, "it could become a normal insurable condition."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A large AIDS ribbon was displayed in Durban, South Africa, over the summer to try to draw attention to the epidemic's effects. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (92%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (64%); APPROVALS (60%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE 

PERSON: ITANO, NICOLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (78%) SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



434 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, a Shopping Tradition Updated 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
Patrice Wagner came here more than a decade ago to help turn around the big Galeries Lafayette department store, which opened in old East Berlin after the wall came down, and then foundered. Fourteen months ago, that task complete, he became general manager of the big Kaufhaus des Westens, or KaDeWe, a western Berlin landmark. 
 KaDeWe is not in any crisis, but in 2007 the store, a magnet for tourists and Berliners alike, celebrates its 100th anniversary. "We don't want to look like someone's dowager aunt," said Mr. Wagner, now 36, in his office high above the store. So next year, KaDeWe will begin a $54 million renovation of its lower six floors. 
 KaDeWe's rebuilding is part of a broad overhaul of Europe's venerable department stores, which are, like their American cousins, investing hundreds of millions of dollars to reinvent themselves. 
 Department stores in Europe are largely a center-city business, and European cities, unlike American ones, have largely remained havens of the middle and upper class. 
 Europe's department stores are also largely 19th-century creations. They provided for generations of shoppers a service that could not be had at specialty stores with a single line of products -- one-stop shopping for everything from clothes to home furnishings to appliances and even food. 
 European retailing continues to evolve, despite an economic slowdown and a lukewarm consumer market. Increasingly, Europeans are fleeing congested cities, promoting the spread of shopping malls. At the same time, specialized retailers with rapid supply chains, like Hennes & Mauritz of Sweden and Zara of Spain, have drawn young shoppers and challenged department stores.
 If all this sounds familiar to Americans, it may explain why in the 1990's many big chains, like Selfridges in Britain and Galeries Lafayette in France, looked across the Atlantic. "When we looked for a benchmark then in the 80's and 90's, it was the United States," Mr. Wagner said. But the models to emulate today, he added, are Selfridges and El Corte Ingles in Spain.
 At the huge Corte Ingles store at Nuevos Ministerios, north of the Madrid city center, the strategy used successfully by many European department stores of introducing luxury brands is much in evidence. Shoppers entering the ground floor pass "shop in shop" boutiques with brands like Bulgari and Cartier. The women's fashion floors feature big names like Cerutti, Balenciaga and Bruno Magli, but also home-grown Spanish designers like Felipe Varela and Jesus del Pozo. 
 El Corte Ingles, which has stores across Spain, is committed to the traditional concept of all-under-one-roof. Two years ago, El Corte Ingles began selling cars through an agreement with Many Cars, a Spanish dealership. Yet Manuel de Morales, a spokesman, said only top-of-the-line brands like Mercedes-Benz and BMW are offered. What's the advantage of buying a car at a department store? "None," he replied, "but we want to provide every possible service."
 El Corte Ingles needs not only money, but youth. Some of its strongest competition comes from energetic retailers like Zara that focus on teenagers. To hit back, the store has created new brands, like Green Coast, with bell bottoms and bright tops that appeal to young shoppers. Last year it began opening a separate chain of stores, called Sfera, a Zara knock-off. Facing the Corte Ingles store along Calle de Preciados in the heart of Madrid, a big new Sfera store is under construction.
 Whether a bag of such tricks will help European chains over the long term is unclear. "Does the department store in its current form have a future?" asked Michael Kliger, director of the retailing group at McKinsey & Company in Munich. "That is the $1 billion question."
 Retailing isin a downturn all over Europe, but department stores are feeling the effects the most. In the Galeries Lafayette Group, which includes BHV department stores, discount stores and financial services, the department stores' share of total revenue dropped below 36 percent last year, from 36.9 percent the year before and 37.3 percent in 2000. Operating profit at the group's department store division dropped almost 9 percent in the first nine months of the year. In contrast, operating profit rose 17 percent at the group's discount Monoprix stores. In Germany, revenue at KarstadtQuelle, the retailing giant that owns KaDeWe and 188 other department stores, dropped 8 percent last year, although Germany's overall retail market contracted only 2 percent.
 All this has caused the stores to tighten their ranks. In Germany, the number of department store chains has contracted in 10 years from a half-dozen to two: KarstadtQuelle and Kaufhof, part of the Metro Group of retailers. In Spain, El Corte Ingles stands alone, after swallowing its closest rival, Galerias Preciados, in 1996, then last year taking over five Marks & Spencer stores. 
 One tendency is for big stores to grow bigger and smaller ones to fail. When El Corte Ingles absorbed Preciados, several smaller, less profitable locations were shut. In addition to giant stores like KaDeWe, KarstadtQuelle has many stores in smaller cities. Markus Bar, who follows the stores at Kommerzbank Securities in Frankfurt, estimates that as many as 48 are losing money and will probably be shed. "The department store concept is very difficult," Mr. Bar said. "The concept is losing ground."
 To fight back, Galeries Lafayette has divided its stores into three groups -- department stores in midsize cities, specialty stores and big flagship stores like those in Paris or Nice. In March, the Paris store will grow still larger, when Galeries Lafayette opens a huge new food and home furnishings store after a $60 million, two-year renovation of six adjacent buildings it acquired from Marks & Spencer along Boulevard Haussmann.
 "It's the first time in 30 years that Paris gets a new department store," said Evelyne Le Roux, a company spokeswoman. Galeries Lafayette is painstakingly restoring the 19th-century facades, and one of them will house a complete Zara outlet catering to young tastes.
 Many of these stores are in big cities that rely increasingly on tourists. Galeries Lafayette gets about 40 percent of its revenue from tourists, though that dipped slightly after Sept. 11, Ms. Le Roux said. Signs are in English as well as French; receptionists sport little flags indicating which languages they speak. 
 Mr. Wagner of KaDeWe said the store increasingly lures the emerging consumer classes from Eastern Europe and has adjusted its collections to meet their tastes. The liveried doorman at KaDeWe's main entrance, an institution from the store's heyday in the 1920's that was reintroduced in 1996, welcomes shoppers in five languages.
 Despite their strong urban markets, some chains are hedging their bets, following customers to the suburbs. Two sexy new Corte Ingles stores are in big malls at La Moraleja and Sanchinarro, outside Madrid. "The tendency is to move to the edge of town, and we are following the tendency," Mr. de Morales said. 
 Above all, these department stores want an environment that caters to young shoppers. Galeries Lafayette's opening of the Paris store in March will free two floors in the main store across Boulevard Haussmann to be turned into a vast fashion emporium aimed at young shoppers.
 Part of the recipe for survival includes dropping traditional products to open more space to fashion and apparel. El Corte Ingles no longer sells fabric by the yard or sewing materials; Galeries Lafayette has relegated sports gear like soccer balls and tennis rackets to its specialty stores. Yet Mr. Wagner of KaDeWe says almost any product can go upmarket. KaDeWe, for instance, still sells kitchen appliances, though only exclusive brands like Miele of Germany; home electronics focuses on entertainment systems by fashionable brands like Bang & Olufsen and Bose.
 To some, the effort to go pricey has its limits. Ms. Le Roux of Galeries Lafayette brushed through a ground-floor aisle that separates a boutique offering Poiray jewelry, including $24,000 diamond-encrusted watches, from display cases featuring $180 pendants by the costume jeweler Ambrosia. "This diversity is the strength of a department store," she said. 
 Many successful department stores are drawing shoppers in by transforming themselves into a kind of museum cum theater offering exhibits and performances for all ages and tastes. Europe's department stores have always been temples of consumption -- some, like Printemps of Paris, built under stained-glass domes that recall cathedrals.
 When Galeries Lafayette recently opened its huge new 28,000-square-foot lingerie department, featuring scarlet partitions, lifelike scantily clad mannequins and an aisle called the Red Hot Boulevard, the store offered free striptease lessons to shoppers eager to reveal their new lingerie. Selfridges staged an event earlier this year called Body Craze, in which hundreds of nude shoppers rode the escalators while being photographed. On Halloween this year, KaDeWe invited shoppers into its vast fine-food department, billed as Europe's largest, where for $180 they could eat and drink all they wanted and dance until the wee hours. 
 "Shoppers come not only to see the latest tendencies," Ms. Le Roux said. "You have to offer something special. It's theater."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dressed in the formal attire of another era, Karl-Heinz Richter greets holiday shoppers at KaDeWe in Berlin. (Photo by Otto Pohl for The New York Times); At the Galeries Lafayette in Paris, lip gloss under an ornate glass dome. (Photo by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)(pg. W1); El Corte Ingles, a department store on Calle de Preciados in Madrid, its facade illuminated for Christmas. (Photo by Bernabe Cordon for The New York Times)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (95%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CHRISTMAS (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); CLOTHING LABELS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (71%); BRANDING (70%); LUXURY GOODS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; CAPITAL INVESTMENT; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: SA DES GALERIES LAFAYETTE (92%); SELFRIDGES PLC (85%); EL CORTE INGLES SA (83%); H&M HENNES & MAURITZ AB (54%)

ORGANIZATION: KAUFHAUS DE WESTENS (DEPARTMENT STORE) (BERLIN); SELFRIDGES & CO; EL CORTE INGLES (SPANISH CO); GALERIES LAFAYETTE SA 

TICKER: HM.B (STO) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (92%); NAICS314910 TEXTILE BAG & CANVAS MILLS (83%); SIC2393 TEXTILE BAGS (83%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (54%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (54%) SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

PERSON: ;TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (97%); MADRID, SPAIN (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%) GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%) EUROPE; BERLIN; GERMANY; SPAIN; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



435 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Notes Prompt Judge to Halt Chrysler Trial 

BYLINE:  By RITA K. FARRELL 

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del., Dec. 16 

 BODY:
A judge abruptly suspended the trial of Kirk Kerkorian's lawsuit against DaimlerChrysler on Tuesday after lawyers for the automaker turned over notes from a former Chrysler executive that could bolster Mr. Kerkorian's case.
 The notes, which were produced at midnight Monday, throw into question the course of the trial, which was scheduled to end on Wednesday. The presiding judge, Joseph J. Farnan Jr. of Federal District Court here, ordered a separate hearing on Monday to determine why the lawyers did not turn over the 61 pages of notes earlier. 
 "I want to assure the court that the supplemental production we made last night of 61 pages is the result of an honest and good-faith mistake, which we corrected immediately," said Thomas J. Allingham II of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, who is representing DaimlerChrysler.
 But Terry N. Christensen, the lead lawyer for Mr. Kerkorian's company, the Tracinda Corporation, told the judge, "This is a colossal issue, colossal issue." He said the notes lent support to his case.
 In 2000, Tracinda sued DaimlerChrysler, contending that the company deceived Chrysler shareholders into believing that the 1998 combination of Daimler-Benz and Chrysler was a merger of equals rather than the acquisition that Tracinda says it was. Mr. Kerkorian says he should have received a 62 percent loss-of-control premium for his 89 million shares in Chrysler, a 14 percent stake. He is seeking at least $1 billion in damages.
 The notes were handwritten by Gary C. Valade, a former chief financial officer at Chrysler, who will be leaving his job as head of international purchasing for DaimlerChrysler at the end of the year. They were made from February through April 1998, a critical period in the negotiations between the automakers. Presiding over the hearing on Monday will be a special master, Collins J. Seitz Jr., a lawyer who has been handling discovery, or evidence, issues for Judge Farnan throughout the case.
 "I'm going to ask Master Seitz to conduct a hearing on the first issue of how we got in this mess, which will require Skadden to provide through that process its explanation," Judge Farnan said. "As I understand it, we're two witnesses shy of completion, one of which is Mr. Valade."
 "I want to make it clear," Judge Farnan added, "I don't think there is anything untoward in Skadden's conduct at all, but what I think is I have to know what happened. What I'm simply doing is recessing so we can get a lot more information on the record."
 Witnesses from Daimler, led by its chairman, Jurgen Schrempp, have testified since the trial began on Dec. 1 that Chrysler was never considered a takeover target during negotiations, and that the merger of equals was accomplished three years ago, when the two separate companies melded into what Mr. Schrempp says will eventually become the world's No.1 automaker.
 But Mr. Christensen cited one note writtenby Mr. Valade, referring to a merger of equals, that read: "MOE is very important to us and we know it will result in some economic pain, but we will pay for certainty." Mr. Christensen said that supported his contention that the $36 billion deal was never intended to be a merger of equals. 
 "Every single Daimler witness has testified in front of your honor that they didn't get certainty," Mr. Christensen said, "and yet Mr. Valade says we'll pay for it, by giving up money or shares or a ratio that would have gone to shareholders."
 Mr. Christensen also highlighted phrases included in the 61 pages: "Loss of independence. Sell out for profit. Why didn't we buy? Senior management sold out." 
 Stephen Jenkins, a Delaware lawyer with an extensive practice in corporate litigation who is not involved in the case, said that the crucial issue was that evidence was withheld that should have been produced.
 "The question now is, How can the court system fix the problem that has been caused with the least prejudice to the parties, and particularly to Tracinda?" he said.
 The situation was unusual, Mr. Jenkins said. "I can't recall any key documents being produced in the middle of a trial, but documents often get produced right before trial, and the judges generally say you have to live with it," he added.
 One remedy requested by Mr. Christensen for the late disclosure was that Mr. Valade not be allowed to testify, but that Tracinda be permitted to use his notes to bolster its case. Mr. Jenkins said this might not work.
 "Generally notes alone won't be clear, and you need the testimony of the person who took the notes to explain what they mean," he said. "An appeals court very well might say that for attorney error, not allowing the note maker to testify is overkill. The attorneys can be assessed sanctions, including any additional costs or attorney fees Tracinda incurs because of this. But if the guy who made these notes can't testify about them, that's going to be a problem.
 "Mistakes happen," Mr. Jenkins said. "If somehow these papers were misplaced among acres of documents, that's understandable. It can happen. If the special master concludes this was a deliberate tactic -- which I doubt -- then Chrysler is in trouble." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); WITNESSES (89%); MERGERS (87%); TESTIMONY (78%); DAMAGES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); JUDGES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); TAKEOVERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%) AUTOMOBILES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (97%); TRACINDA CORP (93%); SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (93%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (85%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (85%) SIC6719 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (91%) FARRELL, RITA KATZ; FARNAN, JOSEPH J (JUDGE); KERKORIAN, KIRK; VALADE, GARY C

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (59%) DELAWARE, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



436 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Industry and Housing Surge; Consumer Price Gauge Drops 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Manufacturing and home construction jumped in November and a measure of consumer prices fell for the first time in almost 21 years, government reports released yesterday showed.
 Industrial production rose 0.9 percent in November, the biggest jump in four years, the Federal Reserve said. Housing starts rose to an annual rate of 2.07 million units, the fastest in almost two decades, the Commerce Department said. The Labor Department's core index of consumer prices, which excludes food and energy, fell 0.1 percent, the first drop since December 1982. 
 Tax cuts and the 45-year low in the Fed's benchmark interest rate are encouraging consumers to keep spending and companies to invest in new equipment. The economy is expected to grow 4.4 percent next year, more than the 3.4 percent average during the 10-year expansion that ended in 2001, according to the latest Bloomberg survey of economists.
 "We have the best of both worlds here -- very strong growth and no inflation," said Chris Rupkey, senior financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd. in New York. "Manufacturing has been the hardest hit part of the economy and it's coming back."
 Core inflation has risen 1.1 percent over the last 12 months, the smallest gain since January 1966, suggesting that central bankers may be inclined to keep the benchmark interest rate at 1 percent through much of 2004, economists said.
 "Inflation is still dead in the water," said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at the PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh. "It validates the Fed judgment at the last meeting that interest rates could be held constant for a while."
 In a separate report, the Commerce Department said that the United States ran a deficit of $135 billion in its current account, the third largest on record. Competition from overseas producers is deterring some United States companies from raising prices. Americans imported $121.3 billion more goods and services from China and other countries in the third quarter than they exported, the Commerce Department said.
 The gap, the broadest measure of international trade because it includes investments, narrowed from a record $139.4 billion in the previous three months. The size of the shortfall equaled 4.9 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, compared with a record 5.2 percent in the first three months of the year.
 The rise in November industrial production reflected increased output of computers, appliances and business equipment. The increase in production at factories, mines and utilities last month was the largest since October 1999 and comes after a revised 0.4 percent gain in October. The proportion of industrial capacity in use rose to 75.7 percent from 75.1 percent in October.
 Work at factories, which accounts for almost 90 percent of industrial production, rose 0.9 percent in November, also the biggest since October 1999, after rising 0.3 percent in October.
 Production of consumer durable goods, which includes cars, electronics and furniture, rose 0.4 percent after no change the previous month. The gain was paced by a 1.7 percent surge in appliances and furniture manufacturing.
 Production of technology equipment, like computers, communications gear and semiconductors, surged 4.1 percent last month after increasing 4 percent.
 Consumer inflation was restrained in November by cheaper air fares, clothing and lodging, the Labor Department's report showed. The total consumer price index fell 0.2 percent in November, pulled down by a 3 percent drop in energy costs.
 Consumer prices for all goods and services rose 1.8 percent for the 12 months that ended last month, compared with a 2 percent increase in October.
 The Commerce Department reported that housing starts rose 4.5 percent from October's 1.98 million pace. Starts were the highest since February 1984 and builders began work on more single-family homes than ever before.
 Beginning construction of single-family homes increased 3.3 percent, to a 1.695 million annual rate. Starts for apartment buildings and other multifamily homes rose 10.6 percent, to a 375,000 rate.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Consumer Prices" Seasonally adjusted Graph tracks percent change, month to month, from December 2002 to November 2003. U.S. and Major Metropolitan AreasNot seasonally adjusted Percent change from previous: U.S.MONTH: -0.3YEAR: +1.8 New YorkMONTH: -0.3YEAR: +3.1 Los AngelesMONTH: -0.4YEAR: +1.7 ChicagoMONTH: -0.1YEAR: +1.3 Boston*MONTH: -0.1YEAR: +3.0 Dallas*MONTH: -0.6YEAR: +1.3 Detroit* (Oct.)MONTH: -0.2YEAR: +1.6 Houston* (Oct.)MONTH: +1.2YEAR: +2.2 Philadelphia* (Oct.)MONTH: -0.4YEAR: +2.4 San Francisco* (Oct.)MONTH: Unch.YEAR: +1.0 Washington*MONTH: -0.4YEAR: +2.4 *Calculated bimonthly. Figures are for November, except as noted. (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart: "Industrial Production"Index of total industrial production, 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted. Nov.: +0.9%Oct.: +0.4Sept.: +0.6 Graph tracks index of total industrial production from June 2002 to November 2003. (Source by Federal Reserve) Chart: "Housing Construction"New private housing started and permits authorized during the month, in millions, at seasonally adjusted annual rates. Nov.Starts: 2.070Permits: 1.874 Graph tracks permits and starts from June 2002 to November 2003. (Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); EXPORT TRADE (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (69%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



437 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Costa Rica Balks at Approving Central American Trade Pact 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 16 

 BODY:
The Bush administration's attempt to reach agreement this week on a free trade area with five Central American nations suffered a reversal on Tuesday when Costa Rica announced that it was delaying its final approval. 
 Alberto Trejos, the trade minister for Costa Rica, told American trade officials that he would have to return to his country for consultations. 
 Costa Rica and the administration disagreed over proposed trade rules governing agriculture products, textiles and the service industry in the Central America Free Trade Agreement. 
 This is the third setback in trade talks this month for Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative. His plans to sign a series of regional and bilateral agreements before the end of the year were thwarted when he missed the deadline for completing free trade agreements with Morocco and Australia. Those will be carried over into next year.
 Richard Mills, a spokesman for the United States trade representative, said that talks would continue here among the United States, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua with the hope of completing the negotiations this week.
 Even with the delay, Costa Rica could join the Nafta-like trade agreement before it is presented to Congress next year. 
 Mr. Mills said that the United States remained "interested and positive toward Costa Rica" but that a dispute over opening up its telecommunications and insurance industries was serious. "Two-thirds of our economy is the services economy," he said. "Costa Rica has a monopoly in telecommunications and insurance."
 The United States has demanded that all the Central American nations open their protected service areas. At the same time, the United States is discussing opening its borders to agricultural products like sugar.
 To deal with some of the other agricultural issues, negotiators are discussing 10- and 15-year periods for gradually phasing out tariffs on corn, rice and meat.
 Regina K. Vargo, the chief negotiator for the United States, has warned the Central American nations that if they fail to complete negotiations this week it will be difficult to persuade Congress to approve the accord.
 But several members of Congress have already signaled that the chances of passage are slim in the coming election year.
 With trade building as a major election issue, critics are using the 10th anniversary of the signing of Nafta to build a campaign against new trade agreements like Cafta, the shortened name for the trade agreement.
 Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan and a proponent of free trade, said that without improved labor standards he doubted that Congress would approve the measure.
 The agreement with Morocco was postponed because it balked at opening its market to American wheat and meat. Australia resisted American proposals to change its price control system for pharmaceuticals and the United States was opposed to opening its markets to more Australian meat and sugar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); TEXTILES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); MEATS (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; CENTRAL AMERICA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; SERVICE INDUSTRIES; TEXTILES; AGRICULTURE

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); SANDER M LEVIN (58%) BECKER, ELIZABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); TREJOS, ALBERTO 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); COSTA RICA (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (95%); GUATEMALA (92%); NICARAGUA (92%); MOROCCO (92%); HONDURAS (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%) COSTA RICA; EL SALVADOR; GUATEMALA; HONDURAS; NICARAGUA

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



438 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Electric Industry Is Urged To Be More Tightly Linked 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Dec. 16 

 BODY:
Engineers meeting here for the first public technical session about the Aug. 14 blackout said on Tuesday that to avoid a recurrence, the industry should be more tightly linked, through mutual regulation and data sharing, though the path to that point was unclear.
 The moderator of the session, Gerry W. Cauley, director for reliability performance at the North American Electric Reliability Council, a voluntary industry group founded after the 1965 Northeast blackout, said, "We can't go through another summer like this." 
 But Mr. Cauley added that the August blackout did not occur on a peak demand day, and that a large-scale blackout like the one in August "can happen at any time." 
 The engineers discussed whether their industry should have a system of peer review, like the one the nuclear industry uses, in which experts from various control rooms audit one another's workplace. Another idea at the daylong conference was better data integration, so the technicians who operate transmission systems could see trouble brewing in their neighbors' territory.
 "You need it for the area that you could affect and the area that could affect you," said Don Watkins, a transmission expert at the Bonneville Power Administration, which operates federally owned hydroelectric installations and transmission lines in the Pacific Northwest.
 A report on the blackout by a Canadian-American task force, many of whose members gave presentations on Tuesday, found that two Midwestern entities, the FirstEnergy Corporation and the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, had violated the existing voluntary rules. A representative of the Midwest system operator said his group was taking steps to improve its operations by the end of the year.
 Federal officials and industry executives have anticipated better regulation through action by Congress, which has discussed authorizing federal regulators to impose mandatory reliability standards. That idea is popular in Washington, but the legislation to establish them was incorporated into a mammoth energy bill that so far has failed to pass the Senate. A similar approach also failed in 2002. 
 The provision in the energy bill would have allowed the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which is mostly an economic regulator, to designate the North American Electric Reliability Council to set reliability rules. But now, Mr. Cauley said, the industry should proceed "with or without Congress." The chairman of the commission, Pat Wood, took a similar position earlier this month and asked his staff to investigate whether the agency already had the authority that could be used to enact such standards.
 But the problem, engineers agreed, extends far beyond setting standards, to actually instituting them. "We're going to need some monitoring mechanisms in place," said David W. Hilt, the director for compliance of the North American Electric Reliability Council. The goal, Mr. Hilt said, was to "assure we really do implement the recommendations." 
 Marjorie R. Philips, director of market policy at P.S.E.G. Energy Resources and Trade, an affiliate of a company that provides electricity and gas in New Jersey, said it would take more than monitoring. 
 "If there's no consequence, you have not done what you set out to do," she said. For violators, she suggested monetary penalties or "public shunning." 
 The industry has not even standardized the method for calculating how much electricity a line can carry, said Tapani O. Seppa, president of the Valley Group, a consulting firm in Ridgefield, Conn.
 On Aug. 14, FirstEnergy was assuming a wind of 4.4 feet per second, he said, but actual conditions in much of its territory were dead calm. Without any cooling from wind, the cables would be 40 to 100 degrees Fahrenheit higher, he said, and would sag more, leading to cables hitting the trees. Tree contact for a fully loaded line is equivalent to "two or three sticks of dynamite," Mr. Seppa said. 
 On that day, 23 percent of weather observations in the area were showing a wind speed of zero, he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (76%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (68%); LEGISLATION (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; BLACKOUTS AND BROWNOUTS (ELECTRICAL) 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (85%); FIRSTENERGY CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION (55%) NORTH AMERICAN ELECTRIC RELIABILITY COUNCIL 

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (85%); FE (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (85%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%)

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; CAULEY, GERRY W

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (93%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



439 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1668 words

HEADLINE: The Civil War Is a Risky Business: Miramax's Bet on 'Cold Mountain' 

BYLINE:  By SHARON WAXMAN 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 16 

 BODY:
It's become a rite of December: Harvey Weinstein, the co-chairman of Miramax Films, begins his walk along the movie season's high wire while Hollywood looks up to see if, this time, he will fall.
 Last year Mr. Weinstein teetered with "Gangs of New York," which despite a $100 million budget and his feud with its director, Martin Scorsese, won 10 Oscar nominations and respectable box office returns. The year before, Mr. Weinstein did not promote his own "Shipping News" because of bad reviews but still made his way to the Academy Awards with the intimate family drama "In the Bedroom," which was nominated for five Oscars. 
 This year Mr. Weinstein's act is much more precarious. With "Cold Mountain," a period romance starring Jude Law and Nicole Kidman, opening in theaters on Dec. 25, Miramax has undertaken the most expensive investment in its 24-year history. The movie, set during the final days of the American Civil War and based on a popular novel by Charles Frazier, cost at least $80 million to make and will cost at least $25 million more to market domestically. 
Moreover, the producers say, Mr. Weinstein made the film over the objections of his boss, the Walt Disney Company chairman, Michael D. Eisner, who had pressed him to find a new partner to help pay for the film after MGM, a co-financier, lost faith in the project and dropped out. 
Other studios declined to participate, and Mr. Weinstein forged ahead on his own. He sent Anthony Minghella, the film's screenwriter and director, to a five-month shoot in Romania and Charleston, S.C., and bankrolled almost a year of editing. Now, with the holiday movie season under way and several war epics competing for the same audience as "Cold Mountain" -- among them "The Last Samurai" and "Master and Commander" -- Mr. Weinstein faces still more pressure. He has been critical of Mr. Eisner, with whom he continues to argue over compensation for himself and his co-chairman and brother, Bob, and over related accounting issues between Miramax and Disney. Still, Mr. Weinstein says their relations have improved in the last two weeks. 
When asked about his gamble with "Cold Mountain" in an interview last week, Mr. Weinstein replied philosophically. "If we lose, we lose," he said. "And all we have is the satisfaction of backing a movie that people said was a difficult movie to make. We'll prove everybody right. But if we win, we will never smirk, but say we believed in something that we thought was important." Mr. Weinstein's uncharacteristic hedging may indicate some nervousness about how "Cold Mountain" will be received by moviegoers and members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, who bestow the Oscars. But he also clearly relishes the riskiness of his choices almost as much as their success.
Mr. Weinstein said "Cold Mountain" would be profitable if it took in $135 million worldwide, given the added income of video and television rights. But all that will be greatly affected by how it does on Oscar night, Feb. 29.
The cost of the movie has been a worry from the beginning. Zenia Mucha, a Disney spokeswoman, said Mr. Eisner "never discussed the financing of 'Cold Mountain' directly with Harvey." She declined to confirm or deny that Mr. Eisner had opposed making the movie in 2002. He and his wife, Jane, "were shown the movie a few months ago, and Michael thought it was fabulous," Ms. Mucha said.
Early reviews have been generally positive, though not overwhelmingly so, and comments from exhibitors who saw the film tended to be admiring if less than passionate, recommending it mainly for sophisticated adult markets. 
How well the movie is received, Mr. Minghella said in a telephone interview, "will depend if people are ready to revisit the film before they make up their minds about it." That second look "tends to happen with meticulous reviewers" and Oscar voters, he said. "I have to hope the movie stands up to that kind of scrutiny." While repeat viewings may be the case for dedicated critics, they may be a lot to ask of moviegoers, given that "Cold Mountain" lasts more than two and a half hours, with precious few moments between Mr. Law and Ms. Kidman and gory, if lovingly recreated, scenes of war.
Mr. Minghella has long experience with Miramax, having made both the Oscar-winning "English Patient" and "The Talented Mr. Ripley" with the studio.
"Cold Mountain" is about Inman, a young Southern soldier played by Mr. Law, who experiences a picaresque series of encounters as he tries to make his way back to his hometown (Cold Mountain, N.C.) and his love, Ada (Ms. Kidman). Renee Zellweger plays Ruby, a coarse farmworker who teaches the delicate Ada how to save her homestead when all the men have gone to war. Like Ulysses' faithful wife, Penelope, Ada resists suitors for years, waiting for Inman to return.
If you were to name the ideal ingredients for an Oscar winner, "Cold Mountain" would have them all: a best-selling novel, an Oscar-winning writer and director, three glamorous movie stars and a studio that knows how to sell sweeping, period stories, from "The English Patient" to "Shakespeare in Love." 
But moviemaking is a complex art, and even those ingredients do not ensure success, money or awards. That was MGM's calculation when it pulled out. Officially, Chris McGurk, vice chairman of MGM, would say only: "We have enormous respect and admiration for Bob and Harvey Weinstein and everything they've done at Miramax. I would never bet against them." 
Yet last year, certainly, Mr. McGurk did bet against the Weinstein brothers. In 1997 United Artists, owned by MGM, bought the rights to "Cold Mountain" for Mr. Minghella to adapt and then direct, with Sydney Pollack as producer. Shortly thereafter, MGM/United Artists and Miramax announced a deal to produce eight films together, including "Cold Mountain," with the two studios sharing the profits.
But as the script was developed, the scope of the film grew from a period love story with a budget of $40 million -- "a poignant personal tale," as one senior official at MGM put it -- into a long, expensive epic painting the horrors of the Civil War. The budget grew to nearly $120 million, which even Mr. Minghella called "unconscionable" in the interview. He and his crew were having trouble finding American landscapes that could pass for 19th-century towns, and Tom Cruise, then married to Ms. Kidman, wanted to play Inman; his fee is usually no less than $20 million. 
Miramax executives and Mr. Cruise could not agree on a payment that would fit the budget. Casting him "would have overburdened this film," Mr. Minghella said. Pat Kingsley, a spokeswoman for Mr. Cruise, said the actor had decided against the film for artistic reasons, not financial ones.
Mr. Minghella also insisted on a team of expert technicians -- the editor Walter Murch and the cinematographer John Seale -- who cost more than Miramax wanted to pay, he said. At one point, he angrily threatened to quit, and Miramax finally relented and hired the team. 
Still, the budget had to come down. Mr. Minghella turned to Romania to recreate the American South. This reduced expenses considerably, and he managed to cast all three leading roles for a relative bargain of about $10 million total, with guarantees for more money if the movie were profitable, Miramax executives said. 
But by the spring of 2002, even with the budget in the low $90 millions, MGM was nervous. It demanded that its investment be capped at $43.5 million (half of $87 million), executives involved in the talks said. Miramax would have to cover anything more. 
Mr. Weinstein considered this unfair; if the two studios split the profits, he reasoned, they should split the risk. But at that stage, executives at MGM thought the movie was unlikely to turn a profit. Period films were a hard sell to mass audiences, they concluded, and foreign moviegoers might not flock to a story about the American Civil War. "At that level of economics, it had to be great," said an MGM executive, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
But in Hollywood, great is never guaranteed. Even on "Gangs of New York," which Miramax said made money, the studio shared the risk with a partner, Initial Entertainment Group. Three weeks before Mr. Minghella began filming "Cold Mountain" in July 2002, MGM pulled out. 
Under pressure from Disney to find another financial partner, Miramax executives said they asked every major studio in Hollywood, and were turned down.
"I myself spoke to the people at Paramount," Mr. Pollack said. "They just felt it was too expensive. Everybody was a little uncomfortable about buying into a picture that they felt if you went in at that price, it would go to $100 million in a second. They felt it was a gamble." 
Mr. Weinstein called Mr. Minghella to give him the bad news. "I could see my life unraveling before me," said Mr. Minghella, who was already in Romania. "But I spoke to him. He said, 'Go ahead.' "
Ultimately, Miramax said, "Cold Mountain" came in at about $80 million because of tax rebates from the European Union, which resulted in a $10 million credit. 
Whether the film will earn back its cost and whether it will win Oscars are open questions. Even now Miramax has not found a distributor for "Cold Mountain" in Japan, one of the largest movie markets overseas. 
"It seems not a consciously controllable process," said Mr. Pollack, who has made Oscar winners like "Tootsie" and "Out of Africa" but has also worked on some duds. "People work just as hard, hope just as much on the flops as they do on the hits. You don't know when you have your hand in magic of some kind."
Mr. Weinstein, for all his showmanship, is putting himself on the line. "The problem with American business today is we don't allow ourselves to take the kind of risks we should in the arts," he said. "If you're saying you spent $80 million to do a comic-book movie, you could say I was crazy or nuts. The only impetus would have been to make money. This wasn't about making money." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anthony Minghella, above, right foreground, directing a scene in "Cold Mountain," Miramax's most expensive film. The studio's co-chairman, Harvey Weinstein, said the project was a risk worth taking. (Photo by Phil Bray/Miramax Films); (Photo by Getty Images)(pg. E5); Jude Law, left, as Inman in "Cold Mountain," with Anthony Minghella, the film's director and screenwriter. (Photo by Phil Bray/Miramax Films)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); DRAMA FILMS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TICKET SALES (71%); BUDGETS (71%); WRITERS (67%) MOTION PICTURES 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (85%)

ORGANIZATION: MIRAMAX 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (85%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (85%)

PERSON: HARVEY WEINSTEIN (93%); NICOLE KIDMAN (73%) WAXMAN, SHARON; WEINSTEIN, HARVEY; MINGHELLA, ANTHONY; LAW, JUDE; KIDMAN, NICOLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ROMANIA (53%)

TITLE: COLD MOUNTAIN (MOVIE)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



440 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: LETTER FROM ASIA; 
Seoul Has Big Plans for North Korea (Nightmares, Too)

BYLINE:  By Norimitsu Onishi 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
North Korea, so the scenario unfolds, gradually moves to a market economy under the grip of its one-party rule. Its leaders keep tight control on the political and social repercussions of economic reforms, but over time the changes ineluctably lead to more wealth and a more open society.
 "We South Koreans do not want abrupt change," said the South Korean foreign minister, Yoon Young Kwan, in a recent interview. "We are not ready to digest sudden change in the political situation in North Korea." 
 As the prospect of a negotiated end to the nuclear crisis with North Korea inches closer, South Koreans are now thinking seriously about the implications. There is the potential, they realize, for a terrible lesson in getting what you wish for.
Abrupt change conjures up the nightmare image of millions of refugees from North Korea, a crashing economy, war. At the very least, the collapse of the demilitarized zone would be far messier to handle than the fall of the Berlin Wall.
The ideal of a gradual transformation to a market economy and a more open society -- played out in China, as well as in smaller countries in Asia and South America -- lies at the heart of South Korea's approach to North Korea, and is also the source of differences with Washington over how to resolve the crisis.
To the Bush administration, North Korea is part of the "axis of evil" and its leader, Kim Jong Il, an irredeemable "pygmy," as President Bush once said. To Seoul, though, North Korea stands where China did a couple of decades ago, and with the right nudge, here and there, Mr. Kim could metamorphose into Deng Xiaoping.
Asked whether Mr. Kim could assume a role similar to that of the Chinese reformer, Mr. Yoon said without hesitation, "I think so."
In an interview here, Mr. Yoon cited the economic changes undertaken by North Korea since July 2002. Government price controls have been lifted in an increasing number of markets in Pyongyang, the capital. Trade with South Korea has increased; South Korean companies are building cars, roads and railroads in North Korea and are planning to build factories in a special industrial zone in Kaesong, a town about 40 miles north of here, just over the border.
Pointing out that Kaesong is an hour's drive from here, Mr. Yoon again turned to the China model. "We will be implementing a Hong Kong-Shenzhen model to the North Korean situation," he said. "Because Kaesong is so close to Seoul, if we can succeed in this project, the positive economic and political impact will be great."
"The key of our North Korean policy is helping North Korea adopt market mechanisms," he said. "That will help them rebuild their own economy, which will in turn bring about some positive domestic political impact and some positive impact in terms of North Korea's international behavior."
Contrast such talk with Washington's. Its recent strategy has been to apply mild economic pressures on North Korea and hint at more severe measures like United Nations sanctions, if negotiations collapse.
The other critical element of the Chinese model of development is that the move toward a market-based economy could not take place in a democracy. North Korea would live under an authoritarian government for an indefinite period.
"In the case of China, the reforms were made possible because Deng Xiaoping maintained strong leadership and stability politically," said Park Chan Bong, the deputy minister in the South Korean Unification Ministry. "In the case of North Korea, Kim Jong Il is in full control of North Korea. If he decides to reform, then I think he can do it."
This political model -- in addition to China, Mr. Yoon also spoke of Chile, Brazil or even South Korea as examples -- would allow North Korea to control the changes unleashed by markets.
But there are many doubts, not only in the United States but also in South Korea, about whether North Korea is capable of following in China's footsteps.
The biggest misgiving centers on Kim Jong Il himself. The economic policies carried out in the last two years do not amount yet to evidence that he is fully committed to economic reforms. In fact, the so-called hawks here say that he has not shown any desire for real change, only survival. So Mr. Kim is compared less frequently to Deng than to Deng's predecessor, Mao Zedong.
"Many hope that he will become the next Deng Xiaoping," said Lee Geun, a professor of international relations at Seoul National University. "Butothers argue that change in China happened only after the death of Mao, and that North Korea will not change until Kim Jong Il is eliminated."
Others are unsure whether North Korea's leaders have the flexibility to accept or manage social and political shifts. Although Beijing cracked down on pro-democracy demonstrators in 1989, it was able to direct political changes by first limiting them to areas along China's coast.
Because of its small size, North Korea would find it difficult to restrict the effect of market reforms to a geographic area, said Ha Young Sun, a professor of international relations at Seoul National University.
"North Korea is very worried about the negative effects of capitalism," Mr. Ha said. "It would view them as a threat to the survival of the regime."
Even if North Korea were willing to accept these social transformations, experts say it lacks an independent way to finance its growth. China's economy was largely agricultural, and its leaders used agricultural reforms to expand its industrial sector. North Korea's economy is industrial, though with a highly educated work force, said Lim Won Hyuk, a specialist on the North Korean economy at the Korea Development Institute.
What is more, in its initial stage of economic reform, China relied heavily on overseas Chinese investors. North Korea would have to get large amounts of aid from the United States, Japan and institutions like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
"For that, North Korea would need to improve its relations with the U.S.," Mr. Lim said.
So that is another China parallel. North Korea needs better relations with the United States, not only to obtain capital but to help would-be reformers outmaneuver hard-liners using a possible threat from America as leverage. China, after all, began opening up only after President Richard M. Nixon's visit led to the normalization of relations. If only Nixon could open up China, maybe only President Bush can open up North Korea.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A South Korean soldier at a gate north of Seoul along the demilitarized zone that divides North and South Korea. Abrupt changes in North Korea are likely to cause serious political, military and economic problems for South Korea. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); IMMIGRATION (76%); TRENDS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (55%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%) YOON YOUNG KWAN (MIN); ONISHI, NORIMITSU 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%) NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



441 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Boeing to Build New 7E7 Jetliner in Seattle Region 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PREUSCH and MICHELINE MAYNARD; Matthew Preusch reported from Seattle for this article and Micheline Maynard from Detroit.

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Dec. 16 

 BODY:
Months of uncertainty for the Seattle region ended Tuesday as Harry C. Stonecipher, the chief executive of Boeing, stood on a stage here and announced to the thunderous cheers of Boeing employees, "The 7E7 will be built right here in Puget Sound."
 The 7E7 jetliner, a medium-range aircraft, is Boeing's first new plane in more than a decade. That the news was positive and announced in Seattle, Boeing's birthplace, serves as a balm on the still fresh wounds created here when the company moved its headquarters to Chicago in 2001. It is also good news for Boeing employees in Puget Sound, which until as recently as 1996 accounted for the majority of Boeing's work force but now count for only a third. Since 2001, Boeing has eliminated 30,000 jobs locally. 
 "This is the best news we have heard in a long time," said Mark Blondin, president of the Machinists District 751, which represents about 15,600 Boeing workers. "It was the right decision for our members, for Boeing and for the State of Washington."
 Boeing executives estimated the market for the 7E7 would be as large as 3,500 aircraft, worth $400 billion. 
 One reason for the company's confidence is its belief that the air travel market, which has been depressed since the September 2001 terrorist attacks, is rebounding.
 Alan R. Mulally, president of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, said the company was encouraged by stronger traffic in Asia, hit hard earlier this year by the SARS virus, and by an improved mood among travelers in the United States as formal conflict in Iraq ended. 
 "Making progress in Iraq and the war on terrorism is having a calming effect on business travel and leisure travel," Mr. Mulally said. Further, the company thinks air travel could return to the record levels of the year 2000 by the end of next year, he said, and that travel would continue to improve in 2005 and 2006.
 Nonetheless, the company does not have any firm orders for the plane, although at least 50 airlines have told the company they are interested in the 7E7, including the two big Japanese carriers, All Nippon Airlines and Japan Air Lines, Mr. Mulally said. "There is no disappointment that we do not have a customer here today," he said.
 Analysts have said Boeing needs orders for 150 to 200 aircraft before it approves production. But Mr. Stonecipher noted Boeing started production of two aircraft lines, the 737, used on short flights, and the 777, used for longer flights, with just one order each.
 "The only way this airplane wouldn't go is if no one ordered them," Mr. Stonecipher said.
 Boeing's optimism was not universally shared. This year, airlines are set to report their weakest revenues per available seat mile, the industry's standard measurement, in the history of commercial aviation. Kevin P. Mitchell, chairman of the Business Travel Coalition, which represents business travelers and corporate travel departments, said Boeing executives were much too bullish about the industry's recovery.
 "He's continuing to whistle by the graveyard with a bounce in his step," Mr. Mitchell said of Mr. Mulally's forecast of a return to record travel. "There is little evidence out there that business travel demand will reach 2000 levels any time in the next several years. I don't see it."
 The uncertainty with which public officials here awaited Boeing's decision on whether and where to develop the 7E7, known as the Dreamliner, is a far cry from the era when Seattle was the unchallenged home to the uncontested king of commercial aviation. The company and the region's political establishment benefited from an unsullied symbiotic relationship, as Senator Henry Jackson was famously tagged the "senator from Boeing."
 Walt Crowley, a regional historian and creator of www.historylink.org, said Boeing had always loomed large in the area's imagination.
 "Certainly, historically and culturally it is very much a part of our self-awareness as a region, particularly greater Puget Sound," Mr. Crowley said.
 Recently that relationship was seen as having soured considerably, but all was forgotten Tuesday.
 "I'm glad Boeing has decided to renew our marriage vows," said Greg Nickels, the mayor of Seattle.
 The state estimates the 7E7 will provide 1,200 production jobs and as many as 3,400 support jobs at Boeing by 2015 and an additional 12,700 jobs across the state.
 That is expected to pump an additional $65 million into the state's coffers annually.
 According to state economists, the aerospace industry in Puget Sound already generates $700 million in tax revenue every year.
 But it is perhaps Everett, north of Seattle, where Boeing assembles the 747, 767 and 777, which will benefit the most from the 7E7. The town has strong Boeing ties. When the first 747 rolled off the line there in 1968 it was named the "City of Everett."
 Everett has suffered under the company's job cuts, said Louise Stanton-Masten, president and chief executive of the Everett Chamber of Commerce.
 "This is just a real morale booster for all of us who have been waiting for Boeing's decision," she said.
 Michael Bair, senior vice president in charge of the 7E7, said it was Boeing's Everett site at Paine Field and a skilled work force that convinced he and the board.
 Mr. Stonecipher said his enthusiasm for the project mushroomed when he traveled to Seattle on Dec. 2, to visit Boeing's engineering center and see its proposed production site in Everett. "I came down solidly behind it by the time I left here," he said.
 The effort to woo the 7E7 was considerable, and included everyone from senators to local chamber of commerce officials. Gov. Gary Locke and the state legislature passed $3.2 billion in tax incentives and made investments in education and transportation infrastructure requested by the company.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Allan Mulally, left, president of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, and Harry Stonecipher, the company's chief executive, told employees in Seattle about plans to build a new medium-range aircraft. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (77%); TERRORISM (75%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (73%); MACHINE TOOLS (72%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); WAR ON TERROR (69%); LEISURE TRAVEL (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (64%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (55%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (52%); SARS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRODUCTION; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); JAPAN AIRLINES CO LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); 9201 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%) SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (89%) PREUSCH, MATTHEW; MAYNARD, MICHELINE; STONECIPHER, HARRY C 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%) WASHINGTON, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (92%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%) PUGET SOUND; WASHINGTON (STATE)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



442 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
Large REIT's Are Paring Their Noncore Holdings

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
During the last year, Boston lost more jobs than almost any other metropolitan area tracked by the United States Department of Labor -- a decline of 1.9 percent from last October to this one. During the same period, however, employment in Atlanta grew by 3 percent, one of the highest rates in the nation, and Dallas showed a 1.1 percent gain in jobs.
 Yet, despite these statistics, some of the largest publicly held real estate investment companies say they would rather own property in Boston than in Atlanta and Dallas. 
 Steven Roth, the chief executive of Vornado Realty Trust, says there is an easy way to explain this seeming paradox. It is difficult to build in Boston, where land is scarce, residents are vocal and zoning disputes can last years. The opposite is true in Atlanta and Dallas. 
 "Wherever it's almost impossible to add supply," Mr. Roth said, "that's where I want to invest."
 In recent months, several of the large office REIT's have sold properties that are not in what they call their core markets.
 This year, according to Real Capital Analytics, a New York research firm that tracks real estate sales of $5 million or more, Trizec Properties sold $993.4 million worth of property, making it the biggest seller among the REIT's. Equity Office Properties Trust, the nation's largest office REIT, was second, with sales of $705.6 million, and Vornado ranked fifth, with sales of $292 million.
 Vornado sold buildings in Hagerstown, Md., and Baltimore. Equity Office Properties has divested itself of buildings in Charlotte, N.C., and Albuquerque, and says that 78 percent of its net operating income comes from its top 10 markets. During the last two years, Trizec has left Detroit; West Palm Beach, Fla.; and Memphis, reducing the markets in which it owns buildings from 20 to 13. And it has curtailed its buying of office property. Trizec has not bought any office buildings this year, while Vornado and Equity Office Properties have bought one $80 million building each (in Washington and Denver, respectively).
 In addition to Boston, the most desirable cities, according to leaders of these companies, are New York, Washington, San Francisco and Los Angeles. Equity and Trizec, both based in Chicago, include their home city, even though it is more pro-growth than the rest.
 In the other cities -- including West Los Angeles, the section of Los Angeles that is most sought-after by developers, if not in the city as a whole -- it is tough to find land to build on and zoning limitations can be severe. In Washington, the city with the lowest office vacancy rate (about 8 percent), building height is generally limited to 12 stories.
 A decade or so ago, the South and Southwest were said to be on the rise among real estate investors. Indeed, those regions are more welcoming to developers and have low entry barriers. But that also means that older buildings can easily be displaced by newer ones. These days, said Lee T. Schalop, a REIT analyst for Banc of America Securities, "everyone wants to be in the hard-to-build markets -- that's not Dallas, not Atlanta, not Charlotte, and not Raleigh."
 The high entry-barrier cities share other characteristics that these REIT executives find desirable: a vibrant night life, usually in or not far from the central business district, with appealing restaurants and cultural and sports attractions. (In Los Angeles, the developers cite the presence of dispersed central business districts in places like Santa Monica and Pasadena.) Cities with these features are likely to attract the highest-caliber work force, said Timothy C. Callahan, the chief executive of Trizec. "There's more focus than ever on where workers want to be," he said. 
 Mr. Callahan said that Trizec was not planning to sell its seven properties in Atlanta, with 4.6 million square feet, because one building is in the hard-to-build-in Buckhead area, but he did not rule out an exit from Dallas, where the company owns five properties, with 5.4 million square feet.
 Samuel Zell, the chairman of Equity Office Properties, points out that many better-educated workers want to live in densely populated urban communities because an increasingly large number are unmarried, or at least, childless. 
 "The most significant issue in real estate today," he said, "is the delay in the marriage age." In addition, he said, cities where workers are not as well educated can be expected to lose more low-skill office jobs to foreign countries like India.
 In many cases, big office REIT's are focusing their attention on properties with relatively poor cash flow and giving up buildings with higher occupancy rates and, therefore, better rates of return, Mr. Schalop said. Their hope is that the newly acquired buildings will fill up once the economy recovers and that rents will rise. Mr. Roth said he preferred markets where rents had the potential of spiking to markets where rents were stable. 
 Many real estate specialists question the theory that cities with high entry barriers are the best places for investment. But even they say that it makes sense for REIT's to prune their inventory and not try to spread themselves too thin. By concentrating on a few markets, a company can achieve economies of scale, attract better workers to its management offices and better accommodate tenants that might need more space, they say.
But Robert M. White Jr., the president of Real Capital Analytics, said that in the long run, investors might do well in some of the cities that the REIT's are now scorning. He said the average purchase price for office buildings in Dallas and Houston was below $100 a square foot, while in Atlanta it was $115 -- well below the market average for central business districts of $206 a square foot and far below replacement cost. Yet the average rate of return in these cities is about 9.5 percent or more in the first year. "That's pretty compelling, if you can buy at high yield and low replacement cost," Mr. White said.
 David G. Shulman, a REIT analyst for Lehman Brothers, said it was not at all certain that rents in the major urban office markets would continue to rise. He said the huge increase in Manhattan rents in the 1990's was based on the vast improvement in the city's quality of life, a "one time only" event. Another critic, James P. Sullivan, a senior analyst at Green Street Advisers, an independent investment research company in Newport Beach, Calif., points out that people who invested in San Francisco office buildings at the height of the market, when annual rents sometimes climbed to as much as $100 a square foot, are now able to get only about $40 a square foot and have lost much more money than investors in the Atlanta or Dallas markets.
 "High barrier to entry is often a strategy that sounds goodtheoretically," Mr. Sullivan said, "but it works much less well in actual practice, since these markets tend to be very volatile." Both the San Francisco and nearby San Jose markets experienced huge spikes in rent during the technology boom of the late 1990's and have since suffered from that industry's collapse.
 But Mr. Zell, whose company owns 208 buildings in the San Francisco and San Jose markets, with 19.3 million square feet of space -- most of it acquired when Equity Office bought Speiker Partnership in 2001 -- bristled at the notion that it was a mistake to buy so much property in that region. Citing the cataclysmic rise and fall of the technology industry, he said: "That's like looking back at Hiroshima and saying it was a lousy place to make an investment."
 Tara Innes, a senior director at Fitch Ratings who specializes in REIT's, agreed that San Francisco was a good long-term investment despite its volatility. Some REIT's, like Corporate Office Properties Trust, which owns 118 office properties with a total of 9.9 million square feet, primarily between Washington and Baltimore, would just as soon avoid central business districts. This year, Corporate Office Properties bought $164.5 million worth of suburban office property, making it the 11th-largest buyer among REIT's, according to Real Capital Analytics.
 In central business districts, said Randall M. Griffin, the president and chief operating officer, taxes and operating expenses are higher and the lengthy permit process means the risk of missing the development cycle. "In the suburbs," he said, "we can be more nimble in meeting market needs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Equity Office Properties put 400 South Tryon Street in Charlotte, N.C., on the market in July. (Photo by Nell Redmond for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT TRUSTS (93%); REAL ESTATE (93%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (93%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); CITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS; SALES 

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%) TRIZEC PROPERTIES; EQUITY OFFICE PROPERTIES TRUST; VORNADO REALTY TRUST 

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%)

PERSON: STEVEN ROTH (69%) PRISTIN, TERRY

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); HAGERSTOWN, MD, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



443 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Blue-Chip Shares Rally on Positive Economic Reports

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Blue chips rallied yesterday, sending the Dow to its highest close in almost 19 months, after a drop in inflation and a surge in industrial production underscored a strongly rebounding economy and reassured investors that interest rates would stay low for some time.
 Consumer prices took a surprise tumble last month, the government said, even as industrial output and groundbreaking for new homes surged. Another report showed the shortfall in the current account, the broadest gauge of United States trade with the rest of the world, shrank more than expected in the third quarter. 
 Taken together, the data suggested the economy was stronger than most analysts had expected. 
 Economists also said that with signs of inflation slowing, the Federal Reserve could keep interest rates at historically low levels for quite awhile.
 "We're seeing a delayed reaction to good economic news from this morning," said John Caldwell, chief investment strategist at McDonald Financial in Cleveland.
 "Housing starts were the strongest they have been in about 20 years, and industrial production showed a clear acceleration," Mr. Calwell added. "We're looking at a stronger industrial economy next year." 
 The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 106.74 points, or 1.06 percent, at 10,129.56, its highest close since May 23, 2002. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 7.09 points, or 0.66 percent, to 1,075.13, its highest finish since May 24, 2002. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 6.03 points, or 0.31 percent, to 1,924.29.
 Big manufacturers, including United Technologies and Caterpillar, ranked among the Dow's biggest percentage gainers because the industrial sector would be one of the main beneficiaries as the economic recovery picks up steam, Mr. Caldwell said. 
 Caterpillar ended at $81.02, up $2.50, or 3.18 percent, after hitting a 52-week high of $81.12 late in the day. 
 United Technologies jumped $1.97, or 2.15 percent, to finish at $93.52, after rising to $93.96, a 52-week high, in late trading.
 Motorola shares topped the New York Stock Exchange's most active list, after the company named Edward J. Zander, former president of Sun Microsystems, as its chairman and chief executive.
 The move at Motorola comes after the departure of Christopher B. Galvin, announced in September, and ends three generations of leadership under the founding Galvin family.
 Motorola shares rose 54 cents, or 4.22 percent, to $13.33.
 Shares of specialist firms, which manage the trading of specific stocks on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, fell sharply after Calpers, the big California public employees' pension fund, filed a lawsuit against the exchange and the firms, contending that the firms' trading abuses went unchecked by the Big Board for years.
 LaBranche, fell 71 cents, or 7 percent, to $9.32, while Van der Moolen, fell 58 cents, or 6.7 percent, to $8.12.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasuries Advance
(By Bloomberg News)
 Treasuries rose yesterday after core consumer prices fell for the first time in almost 21 years in November. Low inflation gives more reason for the Federal Reserve to refrain from raising its benchmark interest rate.
 By late in the day, the benchmark 10-year note gained 10/32, to 100 8/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.22 percent from 4.26 percent on Monday. The 30-year bond rose 13/32, to 104 16/32; its yield dropped to 5.07 percent from 5.10 percent.
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.935
High Rate: 0.830
Coupon Yield: 0.850
Low Rate: 0.800
Median Rate: 0.815
Total applied for: $32,163,869
Accepted: $13,150,437
Noncompetitive: $37,166

The four-week bills mature Jan. 15, 2004.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BOND MARKETS (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LITIGATION (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX

COMPANY: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (54%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (52%); VAN DER MOOLEN HOLDING NV (50%)

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (54%); MSI (NYSE) (52%); VMH (FRA) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: EDWARD J ZANDER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



444 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: FINANCING; 
France and Germany Join U.S. In Effort to Reduce Iraq's Debt

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 16 

 BODY:
France and Germany agreed Tuesday to work with the United States toward a "substantial reduction" of Iraq's towering foreign debt next year. The accord marked a significant step forward in the United States' effort to rebuild Iraq, as well as progress in mending ties with the two countries most opposed to the American-led war there.
 "Debt reduction is critical if the Iraqi people are to have a chance to build a free and prosperous Iraq," said a statement issued by France after meetings by former Secretary of State James A. Baker III with the French president, Jacques Chirac, in Paris, and the German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, in Berlin. "Therefore, France, Germany and the United States agree that there should be substantial debt reduction for Iraq in the Paris Club in 2004, and will work closely with each other to achieve this objective." 
 The Paris Club is a group of 19 industrialized countries that have worked together to alleviate the financial obligations of over-indebted countries since 1956. Those nations hold about $40 billion of Iraq's estimated $120 billion in loans; Arab nations hold most of the rest. The agreement is likely to strengthen Mr. Baker's hand in eventual negotiations with those countries not in the club.
Adding to its debt load, Iraq is liable for $100 billion in war reparations to Kuwait. Iran also demands reparations.
France's statement, echoed in Washington and Berlin, said the exact percentage of debt reduction was subject to future negotiations. But American officials said the three countries had agreed to start work before the establishment of sovereignty in Iraq, a previous Paris Club precondition to debt reduction talks.
The agreement is the most concrete accord reached by the three countries since France and Germany angered the United States by opposing the war and ruining the American-led coalition's chances of winning a more explicit United Nations mandate to invade Iraq. It comes despite Washington's move to bar the two countries from bidding on billions of dollars in American-financed reconstruction contracts in Iraq.
Reducing Iraq's debt, a legacy of Saddam Hussein's ruinous wars and the crippling economic sanctions that followed them, is critical to rebuilding the country's devastated economy. Without clearing substantial amounts of red ink from Iraq's books, governments and companies will be reluctant to invest the amount of money needed to get the oil industry back on its feet, and much of any oil revenue the country generates will have to go toward interest payments. According to one widely used benchmark, countries run into trouble when their external debt level exceeds two and a half times their gross domestic product. Iraq's gross domestic product was estimated to be about $26 billion last year. 
Earlier this month, Mr. Bush picked Mr. Baker as a special envoy to address Iraq's overwhelming debt. His credentials for the job are compelling, because he negotiated the restructuring of Latin America's mountain of debt in the 1980's. His current trip, a five-nation tour that will also take him to Italy, Russia and Britain, is only the opening phase of what will almost certainly be a marathon effort to reduce the debt far more than Paris Club members will readily agree to.
The Bush administration would like to see the group's countries cancel as much as 90 percent of the Iraqi debt due them, treatment that has in the past been reserved for so-called heavily indebted poor countries, mostly aid-dependent nations in Africa. With the world's second-largest proven oil reserves, Iraq is unlikely to qualify for that moniker.
Deciding how deep the debt relief should go will depend heavily on an uncertainty: how much Iraq is likely to earn in the coming years from its oil reserves. The International Monetary Fund, for one, estimates that the potential oil revenue will be about $12 billion next year.
The best deal the Paris Club has ever cut with a developing country was a 66 percent debt reduction for the former Yugoslavia after the ouster of President Slobodan Milosevic. But without substantial write-offs from the Arab nations that hold most of Iraq's debt, even that generous a deal would leave Iraq with a hobbling burden.
Beginning work early on alleviating the debt is also of crucial importance to the United States' effort to establish a credible sovereign government in Iraq. Without some prior guarantee of debt relief, any government coming to power would be weakened internationally and preoccupied internally by the crushing inherited debt.
Under Paris Club rules, debt reduction agreements can only be signed with a sovereign government in tandem with an economic restructuring program agreed to with the International Monetary Fund.
French officials said there had been no effort to tie more aggressive debt reduction to lucrative reconstruction contracts in Iraq, from which French, German, Russian, Canadian, Mexican and Chinese companies, among others, have been excluded because of their countries' past opposition to the war.
In Germany, however, Mr. Schroder pushed Mr. Baker for a reversal of the American policy. A German government spokesman said later that Germany and the United States would remain in talks on the issue. 
In Washington, a White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, suggested that the question of reconstruction contracts remained on the table. "We welcome the opportunity to discuss our decision with others if they want to talk about that," he said. "The president has made it very clear that those lines of communication would be open."
Beyond the financial rewards of cooperating with the United States in Iraq, France and Germany have been eager to find some way to take part in Iraq's reconstruction without having to commit troops -- something that would be a near political impossibility for both governments domestically.
The two are also struggling to contain budget deficits that already breach European Union rules, so coming up with substantial cash contributions to Iraq is equally difficult. Writing off debt that is not likely to be repaid in any case is one of the few politically palatable alternatives they have for showing support to the American-led effort. 
Iraq owes France about $3 billion and Germany about $2.5 billion, not including accrued interest and penalty fees.
"This kind of debt relief is a fairly easy price to pay to improve transatlantic relations," said Sebastian Brokelmann, an expert on trans-Atlantic relations at the Center for Applied Policy Research in Munich.
Mr. Baker must now convince Russia, a new Paris Club member, to go along with the effort.
Russia, which is owed about $8 billion by Iraq, had said that it would not cancel any of its Iraqi debt after Washington singled it out as one of the countries barred from bidding on reconstruction contracts. But with other major powers pitching in, Russia may findit difficult to hold out.
On Monday, Russia's deputy foreign minister, Yuri V. Fedotov, said his country supported a Paris Club solution to Iraq's debt.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James A. Baker III before meeting President Jacques Chirac in Paris. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); DEBTOR NATIONS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); POLITICS (75%); TRENDS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%); TERRORISM (59%) TERRORISM; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: PARIS CLUB (91%) ;PARIS CLUB 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (89%); GERHARD SCHRODER (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) SMITH, CRAIG S; BAKER, JAMES A III; CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR)#000T031218SRAQA01# 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ; FRANCE; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



445 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE POLL; 
Bush's Approval Ratings Climb In Days After Hussein's Capture

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JANET ELDER 

 BODY:
The capture of Saddam Hussein has lifted Americans' view of the state of the nation and their opinion of President Bush, while at least momentarily halting what had been a spiral of concern about the nation's economic and foreign policy, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll.
 But even in the glow of Mr. Hussein's capture, Americans worry that United States forces will be mired in Iraq for years, are concerned that the attacks on American troops will continue and say that President Bush has no plan to extricate the United States from Iraq, the poll found. And 60 percent of Americans said the United States was as vulnerable to a terrorist attack as it was before Mr. Hussein was pulled from a hole in Ad Dwar. 
 Times/CBS News polls spanned the days before and after Mr. Hussein's capture, offering a vivid demonstration of the extent to which public opinion can shift in reaction to a momentous event. From Saturday night to Sunday night, Americans' view of the success of the war soared, as did their opinion about whether the nation is on the right track and their approval of Mr. Bush. 
There was even a slight bump bein the number of Americans who thought the economy was on the mend, a number that had already been growing in polls since October.
In the most apparent demonstration of the shift, 47 percent of respondents said the war was going well for the United States in the poll that ended Saturday night. That number jumped to 64 percent in the second poll. Before the weekend, 47 percent of Americans disapproved of the way Mr. Bush was handling foreign policy, the worst rating of his presidency. After the weekend, that number had slid to 38 percent.
Mr. Bush's approval rating jumped to 58 percent after Mr. Hussein was captured, from 52 percent, and the number of Americans who disapproved of his performance fell to 33 percent, from 40 percent.
The first poll's findings included red flags for President Bush as he heads into next year's re-election campaign, particularly in the measure of people who thought the country was heading in the right direction, a historically reliable early indicator of the political strength of an officeholder. In that poll, 56 percent of respondents said the nation was heading in the wrong direction, compared with just 39 percent who said it was on the right track.
But by Monday, that measure had nearly flipped, with the number of Americans who said the nation was heading in the right direction rising to 49 percent, with 43 percent saying things were going awry, the second poll found.
Even the perception that the economy is getting better, which has been something of a weak suit for Mr. Bush, improved to 39 percent this week from 34 percent last week.
The two nationwide telephone polls were taken back to back, one going from Wednesday to Saturday and the other Sunday to Monday. The sample in the first poll was 1,057 adults, and it had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. Another 635 adults were questioned in a second poll, and that had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
Public opinion can sometimes react dramatically in the days after a big event, and the findings of the second Times/CBS News Poll could reflect excitement and patriotism stirred by the images of Mr. Hussein being taken into custody.
Even through the prism of this victory, the poll reflected continued ambivalence in the American public about the war, and Mr. Bush's handling of it. That sentiment that was reflected in follow-up interviews with poll respondents.
"It's a great thing; it's one less threat to the world," said Shari Cook, 44, a school cook from Farnam, Neb., and a political independent. "He's a horrible, horrible man, but I don't know that his capture makes up for all the lives that are being lost every day over there."
Michael Grimaldi, 34, a Republican who is an ambulance dispatcher from Fairfield, N.Y., predicted that the capture of Mr. Hussein would result in a decrease in the bombings in Iraq. But Mr. Grimaldi said he was concerned that the United States was now stuck there.
"It seems to me that another Vietnam is happening," he said. "I'm just hoping that since we've caught him, we can get our soldiers back home and let them deal with their problems on their own."
Nearly half the respondents said that they now believed that the United States, with the capturing of Mr. Hussein, had won the war. A majority said that the war was not over yet and that they expected troops to stay in place for years, rather than months. Most of those polled said they believed that Mr. Hussein had orchestrated the attacks on American soldiers, but a majority also expected those attacks to continue.
About 53 percent of respondents said the administration did not have a plan for rebuilding Iraq, and respondents were evenly divided over whether the White House had a plan to deal with terrorism or was only reacting to events. 
Before Mr. Hussein's capture, the number of Americans who said the war was a mistake had jumped 19 points since last April, to 43 percent. It slipped back to 30 percent in the second poll this week.
There was also clear public disapproval about some ways that Mr. Bush has responded to the war at home. For example, two-thirds of Americans, including most Republicans, said they disagreed with the White House policy of prohibiting news photographers from ceremonies where the coffins of Americans troops are brought home.
The White House says that the policy is intended to protect the privacy of the families of the deceased; Democrats and some critics of the White House say it is intended to avoid the publication of emotionally charged photographs that might harden opposition to the war.
Along those same lines, two-thirds of respondents said Mr. Bush should make it a practice to attend the funerals of some Americans killed in Iraq. (That said, a quarter of respondents said, incorrectly, that Mr. Bush was attending those funerals.)
Democratic presidential candidates have been stepping up their attacks on Mr. Bush's policies on terrorism and Iraq, in the face of some criticism by Republicans who suggest that such attacks are improper at a time of war. But a clear majority of respondents, 64 percent, said such criticism was appropriate.
Kim Baatz, 25, an independent voter from Sheldon, La., said in a follow-up interview that her opinion of Mr. Bush had shifted because of the success in Iraq this weekend.
"I was leaning away from approval until the capture because I felt like the progress in Iraq was going nowhere; there were so many of our military men getting killed," Ms. Baatz said, adding, "One of the goals has been achieved."

How the 2 Polls Were Conducted
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on two surveys conducted back to back immediately before and after it became known that Saddam Hussein had been captured.
Telephone interviews were conducted Wednesday through Saturday with 1,057 adults throughout the United States. Mr. Hussein's capture was announced on Sunday morning. A separate sample of 635 adults was then interviewed from Sunday afternoon through Monday night.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country.
Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results based on such samples will differ by no more than a few percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults. The margin of sampling error for the first poll was three points; for the second, it was four points.
In comparing the two polls, a shift in responses of five points or more is statistically significant.
For smaller subgroups the margin of sampling error is larger.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.
Complete results are available at nytimes.com/politics.

GRAPHIC: ChartDo you approve or disapprove of the way George W. Bush is handling foreign policy? Before Hussein's Capture (Dec. 10 to 13)APPROVE: 45%DISAPPROVE: 47NO OPINION: (No number figure given) After (Dec. 14 to 15)APPROVE: 52DISAPPROVE: 38NO OPINION: (No number figure given) Are things in this country generally going in the right direction or have they gotten off on the wrong track? Before Hussein's Capture (Dec. 10 to 13)RIGHT DIRECTION: 39%WRONG TRACK: 56NO OPINION: (No number figure given) After (Dec. 14 to 15)RIGHT DIRECTION: 49WRONG TRACK: 43NO OPINION: (No number figure given) (Source by New York Times/CBS News polls.)(pg. A1) Chart: "Before and After Hussein's Capture"Do you approve or disapprove of the way George W. Bush is handling . . . . . . his job as President?SEPT 28 TO OCT. 1APPROVE: 51%DISAPPROVE: 42NO OPINION: (No number figure) DEC. 10 TO 13APPROVE: 52DISAPPROVE: 40NO OPINION: (No number figure) DEC. 14 TO 15*APPROVE: 58DISAPPROVE: 33NO OPINION: (No number figure) the economy?SEPT 28 TO OCT. 1APPROVE: 37DISAPPROVE: 56NO OPINION: (No number figure) DEC. 10 TO 13APPROVE: 44DISAPPROVE: 51NO OPINION: (No number figure) DEC. 14 TO 15APPROVE: 49DISAPPROVE: 43NO OPINION: (No number figure) the situation with Iraq?SEPT 28 TO OCT. 1APPROVE: 47DISAPPROVE: 48NO OPINION: (No number figure) DEC. 10 TO 13APPROVE: 45DISAPPROVE: 48NO OPINION: (No number figure) DEC. 14 TO 15APPROVE: 59DISAPPROVE: 35NO OPINION: (No number figure) How are things going for the U.S. in its efforts to bring stability and order to Iraq? DEC. 10 TO 13WELL: 47%BADLY: 51NO OPINION: (No number figure) DEC. 14 TO 15WELL: 64BADLY: 31NO OPINION: (No number figure) Was the Bush administration too quick, too slow or about right in its timing of getting the U.S. involved in Iraq? DEC. 10 TO 13TOO QUICK: 47%TOO SLOW: 13ABOUT RIGHT: 27NO OPINION: (No number figure) DEC. 14 TO 15TOO QUICK: 43TOO SLOW: 12ABOUT RIGHT: 42NO OPINION: (No number figure) Now that Saddam Hussein has been captured, will attacks against U.S. troops increase, decrease or stay about the same? DEC. 14 TO 15INCREASE: 19%DECREASE: 24SAME: 52NO OPINION: (No number figure) How long will the U.S. troops have to remain in Iraq? DEC. 14 TO 15 LESS THAN A YEAR: 15%1-2 YEARS: 342-5 YEARS: 31MORE THAN 5 YEARS: 12NO OPINION: (No number figure) *Saddam Hussein's capture was announced on the morning of Dec. 14. Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted Sept. 28 to Oct. 1, 2003, with 981 adults; Dec. 10 to 13, 2003, with 1,057 adults; and Dec. 14 to 15, 2003, with 635 adults. (pg. A36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); IRAQ WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); TERRORISM (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); APPROVALS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%) PUBLIC OPINION; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; #000T031218SRAQA01# 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; ELDER, JANET; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



446 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Beef Prices Fall, but Consumers Aren't Buying That 

BYLINE:  By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
THE good news is that wholesale beef prices are dropping, down about 20 percent since hitting all-time highs in October. 
 But don't try to tell that to George Sickles, a school bus driver, who was eyeing a bottom round roast at a Key Food store in his Brooklyn neighborhood about a week ago. "Look at this, it's $15.40," he said. "I know I paid about $11 for a roast exactly the same size a few weeks ago. Beef is costing much more lately." 
 In a Gristede's on Columbus Avenue in Manhattan, Carol McHugh, an art consultant and writer, said she had stopped buying rib steak because of the price, and settled on shoulder London broil at $2.99 a pound. 
It may take weeks before the price stickers for beef reflect a decline in wholesale prices, if they ever do. Wholesale prices remain higher than a year ago, when whole loins were $168 a hundredweight, compared with about $220 now, but down from the $280.81 they cost in mid-October.
"Typically there is a lag of 6 to 10 weeks between wholesale prices and what you see at retail," said Gregg Doud, the chief economist for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, a trade group. "At the retail level they're slow to raise prices. They hold on as long as they can, and are also slow to lower them." 
He thinks prices might start coming down after the first of the year, but others, including market analysts and retailers, are less optimistic.
The high price of beef has had a ripple effect throughout the meat and poultry business. Wholesale chicken and pork prices are up 10 to 30 percent over last year, mostly, producers say, because the increasing price of beef has given them a chance to raise prices after years of low prices. Retailers have yet to pass along much of the increase.
"The whole protein market is a balancing act," said Bob Vosburgh, an editor for Supermarket News, a trade publication. "Retailers want the most volume. And higher prices have not deterred shoppers. But the retailers operate on razor-thin margins, so it would dictate that if it's possible to squeeze a higher profit out of chicken and pork, they'll do it."
Richard Lobb, spokesman for the National Chicken Council, a trade group, said that when beef is expensive people tend to buy chicken, so the price of chicken goes up because there is more demand. But he denied that chicken producers were taking advantage of consumers who are hungry for a cheaper alternative to beef. "In recent years chicken prices have been too low," he said. "By raising prices a little, the producers can get some relief."
The pork producers make the same argument. "This year we're slaughtering more hogs than in 1998 when the wholesale price was less than $10 a hundredweight," said Steve Meyer of Paragon Economics in Adel, Iowa, a consultant to the National Pork Board. "Now hog prices are up about $36, which is better for the farmer. The consumer is buying more and is willing to pay more because the alternatives are also up."
Egg prices are nearly double what they were a year ago because production is down after years of low prices. Though egg sales overall are flat, sales of the most expensive kind, organic and free-range varieties, have increased by 18 percent in the last year. But an omelet for dinner still costs less than a dollar, much less than chicken breasts, pork chops or steak.
What is clear is that consumer demand for protein products has not declined, even though prices are climbing. According to A. C. Nielsen, supermarket sales of fresh meat and poultry have increased 13.3 percent nationwide since the beginning of the year. Sales of pasta, instant rice and white bread have all declined. 
The Atkins diet is often cited as the reason for the hunger for protein, and one of the reasons for the beef shortage.
Sales are up in steak houses, though some are starting to raise prices. "We passed along the least increase possible, a dollar on all cuts," said David Walzog, executive chef of Michael Jordan's the Steak House and of the Strip House in New York. "We did not raise prices sooner because of the economy." 
John Barone, president of Market Vision in Fairfield, N.J., a consultant to chain restaurants, said that restaurants were promoting alternatives to beef, like shrimp, which is relatively inexpensive. He also said that many chains, like the Outback steakhouses, had ordered their supplies through the end of the year, thus protecting their costs. "But it's only a matter of time before they respond to the higher prices at wholesale," he said. 
For the last two years, droughts in the Midwest have been responsible for declining production. Last spring, a ban on imports from Canada went into effect after the discovery of a single mad cow, which contributed to the price increases. The Canadian ban has been eased somewhat, and beef imports, of boneless cuts and from cattle younger than 30 months, have resumed.
At Fresh Direct, the Queens-based grocery delivery service, Joe Fedele, the president, said the company had delayed raising beef prices because it did not believe they would climb to the stratospheric levels they reached in October. But finally, he said, it could no longer absorb the increased costs. Fresh Direct's choice rib roasts are now $10.99 a pound, up from $6.99 last summer, and brisket has gone from $4.99 to $6.49. D'Agostino supermarkets, with 22 stores in New York City and its suburbs, began increasing prices in mid-November, with rib roasts going from $6.99 a pound to $9.99 a pound. Mary Moore, spokeswoman for the chain, said D'Agostino lately had been selling more stew meat, cube steaks and ground beef.
Mr. Barone, the consultant, said that consumers had not yet felt the full brunt of the price increases, predicting that beef prices would remain high for two years, possibly keeping the prices of chicken and pork elevated, too. 
Mr. Doud, of the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, said that from 1998 to 2002 his industry lost record amounts of money. "All we've done in 2003 is to recoup those losses," he said. He added that if the drought in the Midwest continued, it would be hard to increase production.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A ROAST OR BURGERS? -- Shoppers at a Key Food on Avenue A in Manhattan on Monday studying the price of beef . (Photo by Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF (92%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (92%); PRICE CHANGES (91%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); PORK (89%); MEATS (89%); POULTRY (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (78%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (77%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (77%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (75%); CHICKEN FARMING (70%); WRITERS (69%) Meat; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Poultry ; Meat

COMPANY: NATIONAL CATTLEMEN'S BEEF ASSOCIATION (67%); SUPERMARKET NEWS (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (67%); SIC8621 PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS (67%)

PERSON: Florence Fabricant

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



447 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK; 
Americans' Thirst for Wine Is Rising

BYLINE:  By Frank J. Prial

 BODY:
AMERICANS, most of whom once thought of wine as effete and elitist, might be surprised -- astonished, even -- to learn that the United States is the third largest wine consuming nation in the world and will almost certainly become the largest by the end of this decade. 
 Only the French and Italians drink more wine that Americans do, and many traditional wine-drinking nations, including Germany and Spain, drink less, according to the Wine Institute, the promotional arm of the California wine industry. 
 Moreover, while wine consumption in the United States has been increasing steadily in recent years, consumption in the traditional wine-drinking nations has been declining.
Last year, wine consumption in France dropped to 370 million cases, but rose to 250 million here, a 14 million case increase over 2001, according to Wine Institute figures. 
Jon Fredrikson, a partner in Gomberg, Fredrikson & Associates, a San Francisco-based consulting firm that has been tracking the wine industry for 55 years, estimates that by 2010, French wine consumption will have dropped further to around 290 million cases, while here in the United States it will have risen to about 311 million cases. A standard case holds 12 750-milliliter bottles, or about 2.4 gallons total.
In 1970, France consumed 610 million cases of wine, and the United States 113 million, the Wine Institute reported. By 1990, consumption had dropped to 497 million cases in France and had climbed to 214 million cases in the United States. 
The wine industry in America has been crying the blues because of the sluggish economy, the wine glut and, thanks to the weak dollar, fierce overseas competition, Mr. Fredrikson said. But, he added, sales this year are 12 million to 15 million cases over 2002. People are buying and drinking a lot of wine. 
Despite this increase, the United States still ranks very low on individual consumption. On a per capita basis, little Luxembourg is on top. The Luxembourgers put away 63.3 liters, or just over seven cases, of wine per person each year. France is second with 58.1 liters and Italy third with 53.4. The United States comes in near the bottom of the list with 7.69 liters, or about 10 bottles, just below Slovakia and just above Latvia.
But, as Mr. Fredrikson's estimates show, we are coming up fast. There probably was never a better time to buy wine in this country. Tremendous overproduction in the 1990's left the California industry with an immense glut of unsold wine. One consequence was the appearance of a range of lower-priced wines. 
That helps to explain the long faces in the wine industry. Sales are up but profits can be elusive. The Robert Mondavi company, one of the pioneers of fine winemaking in California, is doing better after some rough years, although Mr. Mondavi, the founder, stepped down from the company's board on Friday. He remains chairman emeritus. 
A dozen producers, though, have declared bankruptcy or simply closed in the last three or four years. The flood of imports has added to the domestic industry's woes.
So far this year, according to Department of Commerce figures, wine imports from Australia are up 52 percent over last year, from New Zealand 37 percent, Spain 16 percent, South Africa 24 percent, Israel 58 percent and Austria a remarkable 84 percent, admittedly on a small base, an estimated 53,000 cases, up from 29,000 in 2002. What's more, many of those wines, like the immensely popular Yellow Tail line from Australia, are simply better values than their American counterparts. Handsome packaging, innovations like the screw top, positive acceptance by wine critics and aggressive marketing have given the imports an edge that California producers are scrambling to overcome. 
The current wine boom is hardly an overnight phenomenon. Wine Institute figures show that after some particularly rocky years in the 1980's, wine consumption in the United States has more than doubled in 12 years, up an estimated 88 million cases this year from the 1991 figure. 
As Mr. Fredrikson noted, 1992, when the boom began, was the year following the revelation of the so-called French Paradox, a study that claimed that the foie-gras-eating French had fewer problems with obesity and cardiovascular illness than Americans. 
The reason, the researchers said, was wine, particularly red wine, which the French drank much more of than Americans did. Sales of red wine in this country took off in 1992 and have increased every year since. According to data gathered by the A. C. Nielsen company, red wines accounted for 17 percent of the United States market in 1991, 25 percent in 1995 and 39 percent in 2002. That is confirmation of sorts of the old Burgundian adage that wine has but one responsibility, and that is to be red. 
Given the current competitive environment, these are good times for wine drinkers in this country: an all-time dream market, Mr. Fredrikson said. The future looks even better, assuming the economy recovers and disposable income, the kind used for most wine purchases, increases. 
But observers inside and outside the industry remain cautious. They recall the 1980's when the future for wine, which had flourished in the 1970's, looked limitless. Then, a combination of events, mostly out of the industry's control, almost brought it to its knees. A nationwide campaign to equate wine with hard liquor (A drink is a drink is a drink), warning labels, a mostly spurious sulfite scare and overdue but tough drunk-driving laws all took their toll. Wine sales plummeted and it was not until the early 1990's that they recovered.
One happy note for the wine people: beer sales are down by 1 to 1 1/2 percent. Could the six-packers be switching to zinfandel?

GRAPHIC: Photo: CHASING SLOVAKIA -- American wine sales are up, but shoppers like these at the Chelsea Wine Vault still fall behind many countries in per capita consumption. (Photo by Christopher Smith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINE (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); SALES FIGURES (74%); WINERIES (73%); BEVERAGE PRICES (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (60%) Alcoholic Beverages; Wines; Consumer Behavior

ORGANIZATION: WINE INSTITUTE (84%)

PERSON: Frank J Prial

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); SLOVAKIA (92%); LUXEMBOURG (92%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (92%); SPAIN (90%); LATVIA (52%) France; Italy; Germany; Spain

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



448 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Flight Students' Option: Degree in Global Security 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTINE NEGRONI

DATELINE: PRESCOTT, Ariz. 

 BODY:
Since 1928, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University has been a dominant name in aviation and space education. Twenty-five thousand students from around the world take classes at the university's campuses in Prescott and Daytona Beach, Fla., and at its 130 off-site centers.
 Now, for the first time, Embry-Riddle is offering a bachelor of science degree in global security and intelligence studies, an acknowledgment that a subject once on the periphery of aviation is at the heart of its future. 
 At the campus here, in addition to spending time in cockpit simulators or testing aircraft designs in the university's wind tunnel, students are studying foreign languages and comparative religion and learning to analyze the effects of world events on security. The program is directed by Philip E. Jones, a former C.I.A. intelligence analyst. 
Since Embry-Riddle began offering the major this fall in Prescott, about 100 of the 1,800 students here have signed up. The university expects greater enrollment next year. 
Richard W. Bloom, the university's director of terrorism, intelligence and security studies, said that after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, government and aviation industry officials called him to talk about security. "Aviation has always had its dark margins," he said, but the Sept. 11 attacks "finally broke down resistances and increased motivations that a number of security issues were finally important enough to address."
Many students go to Embry-Riddle, where tuition is about $20,700 a year, to become commercial or military pilots, having dreamed all their lives about a career in aviation. But terrorism has prompted many students to rethink their ambitions.
"Sept. 11 brought aviation down to earth," said Laura McDaniel, a 21-year-old senior from Atlanta majoring in global security and intelligence. "My friends are saying, 'Hey, there's no jobs. I need a marketable skill other than flying airplanes.' "
Ms. McDaniel, a licensed pilot, said she would like to pursue a career in international business.
Her fellow student Andrew Carter, a 21-year-old senior from Oak Park, Ill., enrolled at Embry-Riddle planning to become a pilot but switched to the global security program after taking a semester of Chinese. "I took the first class of Chinese and I was hooked," he said. "What I would like to do now is some kind of Asian security and intelligence analysis." 
Full-time students are sent out to evaluate security at nearby Ernest A. Love Field, a municipal airport in Prescott. They also assemble a weekly intelligence newsletter, Eagle Eye, which reviews and interprets worldwide events for aviation-related companies that need to keep up with the political climate in their fields of operation.
Christian Bertoni, a 23-year-old senior from El Tigre, Venezuela, has a double major, in aviation studies and global security. He hopes to work for the F.B.I. or Interpol. 
"Now I have a better idea how security and politics works," he said, "and I have a better understanding of how decisions are made and the consequences of those decisions from studying mistakes made in the past."
Mr. Bertoni, who holds Italian and Venezuelan citizenship and speaks four languages, added, "Coming from an international background, I see that the U.S. intelligence community needs people who speak foreign languages and understand other cultures."
Classes in political science, international relations, intelligence and security studies are part of the curriculum, as are courses in comparative religion and foreign languages, Dr. Jones said.
"You can't be global if you don't know other people's language," said Dr. Jones, who speaks Urdu, Hindi and Punjabi. "You can't go into intelligence without international exposure." 
Dr. Bloom said his graduates would be qualified to work in areas including government and private-sector intelligence and international law enforcement.
The military is a popular career path for Embry-Riddle students. Nearly one-sixth of the students are enrolled in the Reserve Officers Training Corps, and R.O.T.C. students are represented in the global security program. 
Jobs are waiting for those who study homeland security, said Michelle Petrovich, a spokeswoman for the science and technology department in the Department of Homeland Security. 
The department has $70 million for security-oriented education in its 2004 budget. The money will be divided between students and schools whose work advances homeland security and terrorism research.
Dr. Bloom plans to pursue some of that money, and he will have competition. Seventy colleges applied to become the first Homeland Security Center of Excellence to study the economic impact of terrorism. The University of Southern California won the prize, a three-year, $12 million contract. 
On a recent afternoon, an Embry-Riddle senior with plans to become a commercial pilot was discussing the flying maneuvers he might try if faced with a hijacker on his aircraft. It is a frequent topic among pilots since Sept. 11, and an example to Dr. Bloom of the kind of conventional thinking his security program is designed to transcend.
"I'm not optimistic that there are magic bullets, things you can do with the aircraft or with cockpit doors or air marshals, or baggage-screening machines," Dr. Bloom said. "To most prudently spend money, collecting, analyzing, and transmitting ongoing intelligence is the be-all and end-all; otherwise you're flying blind."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students putting their heads together during a course in global security at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott, Ariz. Foreign languages and comparative religion are also part of the curriculum. (Photo by Erik Guzowski for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLIGHT SCHOOLS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (76%); WEATHER (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); HIJACKING (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); RELIGION (69%) Colleges and Universities; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Hijacking; Language and Languages; Intelligence Services; Airlines and Airplanes; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: EMBRY-RIDDLE AERONAUTICAL UNIVERSITY (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University

PERSON: Christine Negroni

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%) New York City; Washington (DC) 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



449 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ADVERTISING; 
Two Unions Criticize Ads For Attacks Against Dean

BYLINE:  By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
Two labor unions that provided financing for a shadowy Democratic political group running tough commercials against former Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont criticized the advertising campaign yesterday, and one said it might ask for its money back. 
 Both unions, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers and the Laborers' International Union of North America, have endorsed Representative Richard A. Gephardt, who said yesterday that he knew nothing about the group running the commercials. 
 Rick Sloan, a spokesman for the machinists, said the union donated $50,000 to the group, Americans for Jobs, Health Care and Progressive Values. 
Mr. Sloan said the group's treasurer, David Jones, solicited the money by saying it would pay for "issues ads." The union, Mr. Sloan said, believed the group's commercials would focus on economic and health care policies.
But in the end, he said, the advertisements were not what the union had bargained for, especially the latest one, in which an announcer questions Dr. Dean's national security qualifications as a camera zooms in on a magazine cover showing Osama bin Laden's face.
"Osama bin Laden has nothing at all to do with this campaign; it's a travesty," Mr. Sloan said. "We think the ads are despicable and if it was up to me, we'd ask for a refund."
He said the union's leadership had not yet had a chance to meet and discuss requesting its money back.
Noting Mr. Gephardt's slippage in some polls since the group began running advertisements against Dr. Dean two weeks ago, Mr. Sloan said, "They are doing more damage to Dick Gephardt than any of his opponents could have hoped to have done or dreamed of doing."
Donald J. Kieniewski, political director for the laborers, said he was displeased with the advertisement featuring Mr. bin Laden and another highlighting the National Rifle Association's past support for Dr. Dean.
"If it were up to me, I would do them differently," Mr. Kieniewski said. "I'm not so sure I would do an ad as inflammatory as that."
But, he said, he agreed with many of the general points the group was trying to make. "Take away the picture of Osama and the issue it raises about leadership and experience is now an important issue," he said.
For all of the heat surrounding the advertisement, it was unclear last night whether it had been broadcast very substantially in South Carolina and New Hampshire.
A third union that supports Mr. Gephardt, International Association of Bridge, Structural, Ornamental and Reinforcing Iron Workers, said it gave $25,000 to the group. Its general president, Joseph J. Hunt, said he had not personally reviewed the advertisements and even if he had a problem with them, "there's nothing I can do about it now."
The admission by the three labor unions that they gave to the Americans for Jobs, Health Care and Progressive Values, which has refused to disclose its donors until it is legally required to do so early next year, only furthered the perception that it was somehow connected to Mr. Gephardt's campaign.
Its treasurer, Mr. Jones, is a former fund-raiser for Mr. Gephardt. The group's president, Edward F. Feighan, a former Ohio congressman, donated $2,000 to Mr. Gephardt's campaign. Its new spokesman, Robert Gibbs, had been the press secretary for the presidential campaign of Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts until a few weeks ago.
Mr. Gephardt's campaign took steps to distance itself from the group. 
During a conference call with reporters yesterday Mr. Gephardt said he knew nothing about the group and called for it to reveal its donors.
"If I wanted to run ads of this kind," he said, "I'd run them. We're running ads. And I wish they weren't running the ads."
Mr. Gephardt's media adviser, Bill Carrick, said in an interview, "These independent groups may believe they're helping us, but the truth is these ads at best end up being a distraction."
Dr. Dean's campaign manager, Joe Trippi, meanwhile, wrote a letter calling on his fellow campaign managers to demand that the advertisement "be pulled from the airwaves immediately."
Dr. Dean yesterday told reporters, "This is a mistake for these Democrats to be doing this. It's why people have given up on Democrats, and it's why people have given up on people from Washington in general." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); AL-QAEDA (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TERRORISM (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Finances; Organized Labor ; Endorsements; Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; United States Economy; Terrorism; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (84%); LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA (84%) International Assn of Machinists and Aerospace Workers; Laborers International Union of North America; Americans for Jobs, Health Care and Progressive Values

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (87%) Jim Rutenberg; Howard (Dr) Dean; Richard A (Rep) Gephardt

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



450 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CONNECTICUT SENATOR; 
Gore Rejection Energizes Lieberman on the Stump

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Dec. 16 

 BODY:
Ten days ago, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman was trying to rally his troops and win over voters here with sober policy discussions about families and values. "I'm presenting an agenda that values families and makes it easier for parents to give children the values they want to give them," he said at the time.
 But in the span of a week, he has become a man transformed. He has made apparent his bitterness over his rejection by Al Gore, his 2000 running mate who endorsed Howard Dean, saying pointedly that he was unwilling to discuss his "sense of loyalty." 
 He has called for the death of Saddam Hussein, arguing that justice cries out for the "ultimate penalty" for the "evil man" who was captured in Iraq on Saturday.
And each day he issues a new snappy attack on Dr. Dean. On Monday, Dr. Dean was in "a spider hole of denial." On Tuesday, "Dr. Dean has become Dr. No."
The changes in Mr. Lieberman's once-sleepy campaign certainly have given his staff a much-needed jolt.
As he made his way, surrounded by a large, unwieldy pack of reporters on Tuesday, around a circuit-board manufacturer here, his campaign aides looked on in dazed glee. "It gets more interesting by the day around here," said one, grinning broadly and shaking his head at the sudden attention.
Moments later, Mr. Lieberman alluded to the changed atmosphere of his campaign, opening an economics and foreign policy speech by saying, "It's been quite a week, hasn't it?"
For months, Mr. Lieberman and his centrist campaign have been overshadowed by the antiwar excitement fueling Dr. Dean's popularity, and more than a few experts questioned his viability as he lagged in fund-raising and opinion polls. But with the capture of Mr. Hussein, Mr. Lieberman's steadfastly pro-war stance seems suddenly more popular.
"We feel something building here," Mr. Lieberman told reporters on Tuesday, adding that there had been an upswing in people clicking onto his Web site and that more people had been calling his headquarters. "Something's happening here."
Although Mr. Lieberman has shied away from predicting how the capture of Mr. Hussein will affect his campaign, that has not stopped him from seizing, and creating, every opportunity to hammer away at the differences between himself and the former Vermont governor.
Schedules reserved for private events have been suddenly packed with television appearances and conference calls to reporters, and the campaign is set to air new advertisements on Wednesday on some of his anti-Dean themes.
"It's dramatic how the campaign is fired up and Senator Lieberman is fired up," said Katrina Swett, a supporter who described the campaign before the Gore endorsement as just "soldiering on."
"We really sense that we have emerged as the alternative to Howard Dean," she said, adding, "This is something we've been saying all along, but now people seem to be listening."
Campaigning in Arizona and New Mexico, Dr. Dean brushed off criticism from Mr. Lieberman and Senator John Kerry, who also took Dr. Dean to task over Iraq. Dr. Dean labeled the attacks "silliness."
On Tuesday, Mr. Lieberman chose to talk about Dr. Dean's positions on everything from national security to tax cuts, trade policy and how to create jobs in his sharpest and most comprehensive attack yet. The speech, originally planned to focus only on economic policies, was so frantically reworked to include foreign policy that aides were still busy collating it moments before Mr. Lieberman's arrival at the Electropac plant.
"The fact is Governor Dean has made a series of dubious judgments and irresponsible statements in this campaign that altogether signal he would, in fact, take us back to the days when Democrats were not trusted to defend our security," Mr. Lieberman said, mentioning Dr. Dean about 20 times, nearly twice as many times as he mentioned President Bush. "Add it all up and here's the choice. Will we strengthen the American middle class and help business thrive again? Or will we compromise our security, shrink opportunity and sap our strength?" 
Later, the campaign sent to reporters via e-mail a link to its Web site featuring a side-by-side comparison on where the two candidates stood on the issues.
One column was titled, "Joe Lieberman: Forward to Tomorrow's Fresh Start," while the other was labeled, "Howard Dean: Backward to Yesterday's Tired Ideas."
Mr. Lieberman argued that with his decade of service on the Senate Armed Services Committee and support for the military he would be more able to keep the country safe than Dr. Dean, who opposed the war and said that the United States should prepare for a day when it no longer had the strongest military.
He also said that Dr. Dean wanted to raise taxes, re-regulate business and impose new trade barriers. 
"That would start a trade war and cost millions of Americans their jobs," Mr. Lieberman said. "The man who didn't want to fight a war we should have fought now wants to start a war we shouldn't start."
Dr. Dean ignored the specifics of his rivals' remarks on Tuesday, and when asked why he thought the capture would not make the country safer, he said, "Because the real enemy of America is Al Qaeda."
He disputed Mr. Lieberman's suggestion that Mr. Hussein would still be in power had he been president, saying that he would have continued to put "enormous pressure on him" through the United Nations on the issue of unconventional weapons.
But he dismissed questions about any timeline of how he would have handled the Iraq problem as "woulda-coulda-shoulda."
Mr. Lieberman has also been tossing grenades in the direction of Wesley K. Clark, who his aides believe poses a threat in New Hampshire and who is also hoping to break out on Feb. 3 when the primaries move to the South and the West.
He has lumped General Clark in with Dr. Dean for his opposition of the war, but has accused him of waffling.
"I respect Howard for the consistency of his position," Mr. Lieberman told reporters. "Wes Clark took several positions on the war but finally said that he would be opposed to it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Joseph I. Lieberman delivering a speech yesterday at the Electropac plant in Manchester, N.H. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); TERRORISM (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (60%); PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD MFG (51%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Endorsements; Terrorism

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (93%); AL GORE (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) Diane Cardwell; Howard (Dr) Dean; Joseph I (Sen) Lieberman; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



451 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Schumer Wants Kennedy Link To Be Paid for With 9/11 Aid 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
Weighing in on a fractious debate over transportation priorities in Lower Manhattan, Senator Charles E. Schumer offered a plan yesterday to pay for the construction of a much-discussed rail link from downtown to Kennedy Airport without any state or local money.
 Senator Schumer is one of a host of politicians who have thrown their support behind the idea, once seen as an expensive pipe dream of some downtown landlords. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg laid out his vision of a one-seat ride to Kennedy from Lower Manhattan a year ago. Gov. George E. Pataki has now asked his planners to look into the possibility. But little progress has been made in how to finance the huge project, which could cost $1.9 to $5 billion. 
At a breakfast forum of local business leaders, sponsored by Crain's New York Business, Senator Schumer detailed a proposal to tap into the $20 billion promised to the city by President Bush after the Sept. 11 attack.
Of that, $4.55 billion has been set aside for transportation projects, including $2.85 billion for the permanent PATH station, the Fulton Street Transit Center and the rebuilding of the South Ferry terminal.
The Port Authority wants to use the remaining $1.7 billion for a range of projects, including a plan to bury part of West Street in a tunnel, more bus parking and the effort to shore up the slurry wall of the World Trade Center site. But Senator Schumer proposed taking the money for the rail link. "Wecan spend that transportation money on little projects," he said. "But we will not be thinking grandly. We will have missed a tremendous opportunity."
Senator Schumer also highlighted $1.2 billion in economic development financing that has not been used yet by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. The money should be diverted to the project, he said.
"There is no greater way to bring downtown business back than to create the link to the airports and the labor pool on Long Island," he said.
Finally, if more money is needed, Senator Schumer said, he would push Congress to convert $3 billion in tax incentives into additional federal financing.
Some transit advocates yesterday cautioned against a headlong rush to build the rail link, worrying that a project that served only a limited number of riders would compete against other priorities, like the Second Avenue subway and the planned connection of the Long Island Rail Road to Grand Central Terminal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); AIRLINES (77%); HIJACKING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); TERRORISM (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); TAX LAW (68%); FERRIES (66%); TAX INCENTIVES (63%) Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Kennedy International Airport (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Terrorism; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Transit Systems

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%) Michael Luo; Charles E (Sen) Schumer; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; United States

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2003 



452 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2002 words

HEADLINE: States Try to Limit Drugs in Medicaid, ButMakers Resist 

BYLINE:  By GARDINER HARRIS 

 BODY:
Kentucky's Medicaid program was $230 million in the red last year, and drastic cuts were on the table. A state panel proposed excluding Zyprexa, an antipsychotic medication that is the state's single biggest drug expense, from the Medicaid list of preferred medications.
 That was when the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill and the Kentucky Consumer Advocate Network swung into action. 
 The two groups, which are nonprofit, bused scores of protesters to a hearing in Frankfort, the state capital; placed full-page ads in Kentucky newspapers attacking the proposal; and sent angry faxes to state officials. What the advocacy groups did not say at the time was that the buses, ads and faxes were paid for by Eli Lilly & Company, Zyprexa's manufacturer. 
Zyprexa produced $3.69 billion in revenue last year, making it Lilly's top seller and the sixth-largest-selling drug in the world. In the United States, 70 percent of Zyprexa sales are to government agencies, mostly to Medicaid. If just a handful of large states were to limit Zyprexa sales, Lilly's profit and share price would be likely to suffer significantly, analysts say. 
So Lilly and other drug makers -- whose influence in Washington was most recently on display in the debate over a Medicare drug benefit -- are flexing their muscles in state capitals. In state after state, the companies are fighting proposals to create or toughen government programs that use preferred-drug lists to try to cut costs.
Drug makers argue that the lists are unfair to the poor, depriving them of medicine available to others. And the lists, the companies say, tie the hands of doctors who should be making decisions about appropriate care -- especially when it comes to finding the right medication for someone with mental illness. State officials respond that limiting access to some high-price drugs is one way, in tight times, to continue providing care to as many of the poor as possible -- particularly in cases where there is little evidence that the costlier drugs are more effective.
Lilly lost the battle in Kentucky. The state decided to take Zyprexa off its list of preferred medications, which means that patients must try and fail on a similar, cheaper drug before it will pay for Zyprexa. But it was a rare defeat.
After intense lobbying by patient groups and drug makers, the New York State Legislature in May overrode a veto by Gov. George E. Pataki and enacted a law preventing state Medicaid officials from establishing a preferred-drug list. New York's $4-billion-a-year bill for Medicaid drugs is the biggest in the nation; in the first 10 months of this year, the state spent $205 million on Zyprexa, more than for any other drug.
Oregon's Legislature dropped thousands of patients from its Medicaid program in August rather than restrict choices for the others by tightly policing the preferred-drug list.
The drug makers see little room to compromise. They are reluctant to negotiate prices, for example, because under federal Medicaid law, a discount to one state must be offered to all. And preferred-drug lists for Medicaid can influence doctors' prescribing practices for patients they see outside the Medicaid program, blunting the effect of the drug companies' expensive marketing efforts.
Because of their close ties to the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill and other advocacy groups, drug makers have been particularly successful in arguing that states should exempt antipsychotic medications like Zyprexa from preferred lists. Twenty-eight states specifically exempt drugs for treating emotional disorders from cost controls, a Lilly spokeswoman, Anne Griffin, said.
"Antipsychotics are the third rail of Medicaid politics," said David Parella, director of Connecticut's Medicaid program. "If you try to confront this issue, you get hit with these strange bedfellows of the Trotskyite lawyers for patient advocacy groups being allied with the plutocratic lawyers for drug companies."
Dr. Paul Jeffrey, director of the Massachusetts Medicaid program, said that he had not proposed limits on antipsychotic medications for fear that the fight could lead state legislators to support wider limits on the preferred-drug list. "The battle would have been too bloody," he said.
With the enactment of the federal Medicare drug benefit, these debates may soon move to Congress, because the new law provides that the government begin in 2006 to pay the drug bill for patients who are eligible for both Medicaid and Medicare. So-called dual eligibles -- in essence, the elderly poor -- now account for 58 percent of Medicaid drug spending. Until 2006, state Medicaid directors say they have no choice but to continue cutting costs.
Medicaid spending grew nearly 13 percent last year while state revenue fell 6 percent, according to the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured. Medicaid now takes 15 cents of every state dollar, more than any other program except education. The fastest-growing part is prescription drug costs, up 19 percent last year. In all, Medicaid programs spent $27.5 billion on drugs.
Kentucky's Medicaid program is in such fiscal distress that the state tightened rules for nursing home care, cutting off payments to many elderly people. To begin reducing its prescription drug costs, Kentucky in 2001 formed a panel of experts to develop a preferred-drug list. 
The panel decided to tackle antipsychotics "because there was a huge opportunity for savings without impacting the quality of care," said Dr. Robert Hughes, a family-practice physician from Murray, Ky., who is chairman of the state's Medicaid pharmacy committee.
Kentucky spent $80 million on antipsychotics last year, more than on any other class of drugs. That included $36 million for Zyprexa. Though Zyprexa costs almost twice as much as similar drugs -- about $10 a day -- Lilly contends that the drug has earned its best-seller status because doctors find it works significantly better than its competitors. 
The committee circulated a proposal that would have eliminated Zyprexa from the state's preferred-drug list. Patients who were already taking Zyprexa would be allowed to continue getting it indefinitely. But new patients would first have to try an alternative -- including drugs like Risperdal from Johnson & Johnson, Seroquel from AstraZeneca or Geodon from Pfizer. All these drugs are known as atypical antipsychotics, to distinguish them from an earlier class of antipsychotic medications that can cause tics and sometimes even disfigurement.
Committee members knew the plan would be controversial, but they were surprised how intense the battle quickly became, Dr. Hughes said. In the days leading up to the September 2002 hearing in Frankfort, Dr. Hughes and others on the state panel received hundreds of faxes denouncing the proposals, "some of which were quite threatening," he said.
Two days before the hearing, full-page ads appeared in big newspapers reading, "Don't let the state balance the budget on the backs of those suffering from mental illness." The ads said they had been paid for by the alliance for the mentally ill's Kentucky group and the Kentucky Consumer Advocate Network. 
Ms. Griffin, the Lilly spokeswoman, said the company provided grants to pay for both the ads and the fax campaign. 
On the day of the hearing, an opinion article denouncing the proposal appeared under the byline of Harry Mills, the alliance's Kentucky executive director, in the state's largest newspaper, The Courier-Journal. The plan, it said, would require that patients try older medications with dangerous side effects before being given more modern drugs.
"Why should Kentucky try to turn back the clock?" the article asked.
In an interview, Mr. Mills said that Lilly, not he, had written the article; Ms. Griffin said that the company worked closely with him, "and he approved the final version."
In any event, Lilly's experts testified at the hearing that the side effects of the atypical antipsychotic drugs the panel proposed leaving on Kentucky's preferred list were about the same as Zyprexa's. And some of the drugs were newer.
Buses -- paid for by a Lilly grant, Ms. Griffin acknowledged -- carried scores of people to the hearing. State officials were so concerned about security that two Capitol police officers were prominently stationed at the front of the hearing room, Dr. Hughes said. 
Dr. Don Grondin, a pharmacist hired by the committee to review the publicly available research on atypical antipsychotic drugs, was the first witness. He said all the drugs in the class work similarly and none have proved better than the others. Doctors, he added, have no way of predicting which drug will work best in a new patient.
These were crucial statements. Under federal law and court rulings, they gave Kentucky grounds to use a preferred list as a way of pressing doctors and patients to turn to cheaper drugs first. The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the drug industry's trade group, continues to fight the practice, arguing that data rarely makes clear whether drugs are truly equivalent.
As the hearing continued, three Lilly experts said schizophrenia, a disabling form of psychosis, is complex and the drugs to treat it are each unique. "And most of us who have practiced," said Dr. Robert Baker, a Lilly psychiatrist, "find that a big part of our job is matching the specific efficacy and safety and tolerability profiles of the medication to the specific needs and sensitivity to side effects for a given patient."
Dr. Hughes asked the Lilly representatives why Zyprexa was so expensive. A month of Zyprexa therapy costs Kentucky $284 on average, compared with $167 for Risperdal. Jerry Clewell, a Lilly health economist, said he and his colleagues had nothing to do with pricing decisions. "So this panel would really not be the appropriate people to ask that question of," Mr. Clewell said. 
Ms. Griffin, the Lilly spokeswoman, said, "Our pricing takes into account the value to the patient, cost to manufacture the product, marketplace conditions and recovery of research costs."
Several people with mental illness testified against the committee's proposals. So did four psychiatrists, three of whom said, in response to questions, that they were part-time consultants for Lilly. Some predicted that the state's decision could lead to deaths.
After a six-hour hearing, the committee voted 7 to 1 to drop Zyprexa from the preferred-drug list. The room was surprisingly quiet after the vote, Dr. Hughes said, adding, "Everybody had had their say." 
A year later, mental health advocates say they can trace no ill effects to Kentucky's decision. "I have not heard anything negative in terms of patients being denied treatment," said Jim Dailey, advocacy director for the Kentucky group of the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill. 
Zyprexa's share of the state's market for antipsychotic drugs has dropped in a year to 28 percent from 41 percent. Yet Kentucky's costs have jumped 19 percent, because prescriptions for other antipsychotics have increased. One reason, according to Dr. Hughes, is that doctors are prescribing these drugs to treat depression and pain, though the Food and Drug Administration has not approved them for either condition.
Over all, the state still hopes through drug restrictions to save $46 million this year, about 6 percent of the $749 million it expects to spend this year on Medicaid drugs.
Since Kentucky's decision, West Virginia and Maine have also excluded Zyprexa from their Medicaid drug lists. But in a conference call in July, John Lechleiter, a Lilly executive vice president, assured investment analysts that the three states make up a very small part of the Zyprexa market.
"In fact, nearly half the states now have some kind of a provision really limiting restriction of access to mental health drugs in general," he said. "So we continue, I think, to do very well in terms of making sure that Medicaid patients, for example, have access to the very best treatment."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Robert Hughes, chairman of Kentucky's Medicaid pharmacy committee, said a plan requiring initial use of cheaper drugs evoked anger. (Photo by Stephen Lance Dennee for The New York Times)(pg. C7) Chart: "Defending A Drug"Most of the sales of Zyprexa, an antipsychotic drug made by Eli Lilly & Company, are for patients in government programs for the poor and disabled, particularly Medicaid. With prodding from drug makers, most states have shielded such drugs from cost-saving restrictions like preferred-drug lists. When Kentucky excluded Zyprexa from its Medicaid drug list, sales fell sharply. SALES OF ZYPREXAGraph tracks the sales of Zyprexa, in billions, including first nine months since 1997. ZYPREXA IN KENTUCKYGraph tracks the the percentage change in the share of similar drugs in Medicaid program since 2002. State drops Zyprexa from preferred list STATE POLICIES (Sources by Eli Lilly & Company; Kentucky Medicaid Management Information System)(pg. C7) Map of the United States highlights states with No restrictions on access to drugs for treating mental illness, No policy and Limit access to Zyprexa.(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); PRESCRIPTION FORMULARIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRINT ADVERTISING (75%); MEDICARE (72%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); VETO (63%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ZYPREXA (DRUG); LAW AND LEGISLATION; DISCOUNT SELLING; STATES (US) 

COMPANY: ELI LILLY & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ALLIANCE FOR THE MENTALLY ILL (58%) LILLY, ELI, & CO 

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (84%); LLY (NYSE) (84%); LEL (LSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%)

PERSON: ;PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); HARRIS, GARDINER 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFORT, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) KENTUCKY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; OREGON

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



453 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: SMALL BUSINESS; 
Shops Swap, and Keep Sales Coming

BYLINE:  By JULIE FLAHERTY

 BODY:
EDWARD L. SILVERSTEIN, 65, has traded the haircuts, perms and dye jobs given at his Shear Success beauty salon in Newington, Conn., for many goodies over the years.
 In the salon itself, he has traded them for a new tile floor, carpeting, upholstery, electrical work, coffee, a water cooler and the service of cleaners who come twice a month. At home, he has traded hair care to have his car repaired, his lawn mowed and his driveway plowed. In his leisure time, he has traded for a trip with his wife to the Poconos, a white-water rafting expedition in Maine with a grandson and a hot-air balloon trip with another grandson. 
 And three years ago, he traded his services for most of a $20,000 addition to his home. The root-canal surgery? One of his more painful trades. 
Mr. Silverstein barters his way to just about anything he needs as a member of a local barter network, also known as a retail trade exchange. He earns credits known as trade dollars whenever he trims the bangs or polishes the nails of an exchange member, and he uses the credits to buy services -- from accounting to vacations -- from other exchange members. He is not apologetic about it, either.
"There was a time when people thought barter meant your business was in bad shape," said Mr. Silverstein, who has been doing it for more than a decade. "Now, a lot of people are saying their business is doing good, but they say 'I can get 10 percent more business through barter."'
With its stigma as a poor man's business tool largely disappearing and the slow economy of the last few years attracting many new adherents, retail barter has been expanding by about 6 percent annually, according to the National Association of Trade Exchanges in Mentor, Ohio. There is plenty of room for more growth; California, Florida and Arizona have active exchanges, but major cities like Cincinnati, Newark and Richmond do not. "There is not a market in this country that has enough trade exchanges," said Tom McDowell, the association's executive director.
The retail segment of the barter industry that entrepreneurs engage in is aiming for the same recognition that corporate barter has achieved among multimillion-dollar companies. Unlike a retail exchange, a corporate barter company will buy a manufacturer's unsold inventory, usually at wholesale value, in exchange for trade credits. Corporate barter has been an accepted business tool for more than 40 years, with an estimated 65 percent of Fortune 500 companies using it, according to the International Reciprocal Trade Association in Rochester, N.Y.
As retail trade gains favor with more small businesses, the quality of products being exchanged has improved, people in the industry say.
Debbie Lombardi, president of Barter Business Unlimited, a retail trade exchange in Newington, Conn., is the host of an expo every year for members to show off their stuff, and a walk among the booths at the 2003 show in late October revealed an uncanny assortment of ventures, including pizzerias, art importers, photographers, florists, dog trainers, hotels, colleges, interior decorators and business consultants. For tax purposes, barter income is treated like cash, and trade exchanges are legally required to report the barter income of each client to the Internal Revenue Service.
"Ten years ago, you would have been happy to get anything on barter," Ms. Lombardi said. "Now it's choices, it's options."
Health care services are in particularly high demand as small-business owners struggle to cope with the rising price of health plans for themselves and their employees. (Chiropractors, eye doctors and dentists were in attendance at the October expo.) Legal services and hotel rooms are also big items these days.
The industry had a shot at stardom a few years ago, when a handful of start-ups, financed with millions of dollars by backers like American Express, splashed onto the Internet, each with the goal of becoming the dominant, nationwide barter network.
"What happened was you had venture capitalism come into the industry with all this seed money and say, We are going to take this barter concept and make this one great, big, huge, awesome operation all done by a Web site and the Internet," said Krista Vardabash, executive director of the International Reciprocal Trade Association. "With BarterNet, that was definitely the thought -- that this was going to be the eBay of the barter industry."
Today, however, sites like Bigvine, BarterTrust, LassoBucks and Ubarter are defunct, and BarterNet, now named Intagio, is not an Internet-only company; half of its transactions are completed with the help of brokers.
George Geis, a professor who specializes in the digital economy at Anderson Graduate School of Management at the University of California, Los Angeles, said the sites were prime candidates for the dot-com bust. "It's a romantic notion that this could happen online, but in fact, like so much romance it gave way to the challenge of really executing it," he said 
The fatal flaw of the online barter companies, said Mr. McDowell of the trade exchange association, was that they could not teach small-business owners how to barter effectively.
"They don't have the time to spend to figure out how to trade," he said. "They're busy with paying their bills and getting their help out and complying with regulations."
For now, the retail barter business in the United States remains firmly in the hands of the 400 trade exchanges, which are, for the most part, independently run small businesses that make money by charging membership and other fees.
One reason the Internet may be slow to transform barter is that most exchanges are done locally; a landscaper in California has little to offer a dentist in Florida. A successful exchange also has to keep an appropriate mix of businesses to ensure that the value of the trade dollar is strong. "We have to manage a supply-and-demand economy," Mr. McDowell said. "If we have too many dollars in circulation chasing too few products, we get inflation, just like the economy does."
While barter can be an easy way for businesses to sell extra inventory, it can also help businesses that are short on cash and do not want to jeopardize their credit rating. John Collins, 42, who owns Hartford Toner and Cartridge in Broad Brook, Conn., says barter kept his family going while his second business, a convenience store, was struggling in the mid-1990's.
"I went out and bought a lot of food on barter," said Mr. Collins, who treated his family to meals at Italian, Tex-Mex and other restaurants on the exchange, cutting his grocery bills in half. "I conserved cash and I ate well."
Now his business is thriving, he said, and he barters whenever possible, even for property, including a nine-family apartment complex he recently acquired as an investment.
It is possible to get burned in barter if you play your cards wrong, though. Mr. Silverstein did so much work for barter credit one year that he came up short on actual cash. "All of the sudden I had $15,000 worth of barter and I couldn't pay my rent," he said. Now he limits his barter to about 7 percent of his business gross. 
Will an online barter company eventually make the local trade exchanges obsolete? While most exchanges have some sort of Internet presence, they say that their brokers play a crucial role in advising client businesses on which products, and how much of them, to trade. For the moment, at least, Mr. Silverstein is grateful for the personal attention he gets, and even gives his broker a challenge now and then.
"I called my broker and said, 'Any possibility you can get tickets to Cher?"' he recalled. Two days before the concert, the broker came through. "I also saw Bruce Springsteen," said Mr. Silverstein, making him the only person, perhaps, to pay the Boss in shampoo.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward Silverstein shows samples of hair and body care products at a bartering expo in Hartford. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (88%); FLOORING (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BOATING & RAFTING (70%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%) 

ORGANIZATION: National Assn of Trade Exchanges; Barter Business Unlimited

PERSON: Julie Flaherty; Debbie Lombardi

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (65%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (53%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



454 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Dow Closes Higher, but Nasdaq Declines in Profit Taking

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks ended mixed yesterday as sluggish earnings from Circuit City Stores and FedEx prompted investors to cash in some gains from the previous session's rally. A weak dollar also pressured shares.
 "It's been a spectacular year, and from an institutional standpoint, people are locking in profits," said Janet Engels, director for the private client research group at RBC Dain Rauscher. "The negative earnings releases certainly weigh on the market, because it has built in fairly high expectations for earnings." 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 15.70 points, or 0.2 percent, at 10,145.26, having climbed nearly 107 points in the previous session to its highest close since May 23, 2002.
The broader market finished mixed. The Nasdaq composite index fell 2.96 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,921.33. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.35, or 0.1 percent, to 1,076.48.
The dollar hit a new low against the euro amid nagging concerns about the United States budget and trade deficits. In New York, the euro settled at $1.2404, up from $1.2338 on Tuesday.
In the commodity market, heating oil rallied. In New York, heating oil for January delivery gained 2.34 cents, or 2.6 percent, to 94.18 cents a gallon.
Bond prices rose. The benchmark 10-year note gained 9/32 to 100 17/32, as its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.18 percent from 4.22 percent on Tuesday.
Stocks have pushed higher in recent days as investors grow confident the economy is rebounding with few signs of inflation, which would drive up interest rates. 
Still, analysts are concerned that share valuations might be getting a bit high.
"There is some healthy caution with the rise in the market and current valuations for stocks," Ms. Engels said. "That does not mean we're not optimistic for next year, but we don't necessarily expect a repeat performance of 2003."
Michael Sheldon, chief market strategist at Spencer Clarke, agreed.
"As we head into the new year, the economic backdrop remains extremely positive," he said. "Corporate profits are rising, interest rates remain low, and we believe there's further upside for equity prices."
"The missing ingredient so far has been the lack of jobs," Mr. Sheldon added. "If we do start to finally see a pickup in hiring in the new year, that should lead investors to be somewhat more optimistic."
Circuit City Stores declined 74 cents, to $10.34, after swinging to a quarterly profit even as sales fell slightly from a year ago.
Campbell Soup lost 45 cents, to $26.55, after Credit Suisse First Boston downgraded its stock rating to underperform from neutral.
FedEx dropped $3.30, to $71.01, after reporting a 63 percent drop in profits, which was worse than Wall Street's forecasts.
Gainers included Best Buy, which rose $1.98, to $51.50, after posting third-quarter profits that met analysts' estimates; however it also said earnings for the fourth quarter and the year might fall short of projections because bad weather hurt holiday sales.
The Bear Stearns Companies jumped $2.10, to $76.60, after reporting quarterly income that handily beat Wall Street's forecasts.
Advancing issues outnumbered decliners about 8 to 5 on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume was moderate at 1.40 billion shares, compared with 1.52 billion traded Tuesday.
The Russell 2000 index, a barometer of smaller company stocks, rose 0.98, or 0.2 percent, to 538.72.
Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average finished 1.7 percent lower. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 increased 0.5 percent, France's CAC-40 fell 0.2 percent, and Germany's DAX index declined 0.5 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); HEATING OIL (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EURO (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FUTURES (79%); CURRENCIES (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Currency; Records and Achievements; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Heating Oil; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Stocks and Bonds; Futures and Options Trading; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (72%); CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

TICKER: RY (TSX) (72%); RY (SWX) (72%); RY (NYSE) (72%); CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (72%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (72%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (58%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



455 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: FedEx Posts Large Decline in Quarterly Profit 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The FedEx Corporation, the overnight package-delivery company, said yesterday that it had its biggest quarterly drop in net income in six years, as daily air shipments in the United States fell and more employees than expected took buyouts. 
 Shares of FedEx declined $3.30, to $71.01, on the news. 
 Many investors had forecast a rise in the domestic shipments, rather than the 1 percent decrease reported, after the economy expanded in the third quarter at the fastest annual rate in two decades. 
Net income in FedEx's second quarter dropped to $91 million, or 30 cents a share, from $245 million, or 81 cents a share, a year earlier, the company said. 
Revenue in the period, which ended Nov. 30, rose 4.4 percent, to $5.92 billion, helped by higher ground and air revenue. 
Excluding costs for retired workers and others leaving the company, FedEx said profit was $266 million, or 87 cents a share, less than the 90 cents expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call. FedEx said it paid $320 million into its pension plan in the latest quarter and spent $283 million on severance costs. 
Growth in shipments by truck slowed to 3 percent from 25 percent a year earlier. International revenue climbed 10 percent for each package, while sales for each package handled by truck rose 4 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (91%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AIR FREIGHT (90%); SHIPMENTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); SEVERANCE PAY (73%) Company Reports ; Delivery Services

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (93%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDEX CORP (FDX) ; Fedex Corp

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (93%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (93%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (93%) SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



456 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Are bigger vehicles safer? It depends on whether you're a passenger or a target.

BYLINE:  By Hal R. Varian; Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California at Berkeley.

 BODY:
TRAFFIC fatalities in the United States fell steadily from 54,600 in 1972 to 34,900 in 1992. But then they started to rise again, and by 2002 there were 38,300 traffic deaths a year.
 Our performance compared with other countries has also deteriorated. America's ranking has fallen from first to ninth over the last 30 years, with Australia, Britain and Canada all having better records. 
 A big part of the difference between the United States and other countries seems to bethe prevalence of sport utility vehicles and pickups on American highways. Sales of light trucks -- S.U.V.'s, pickups and minivans -- were about a fifth of total automobile sales 30 years ago. Now they account for more than half.
But aren't large vehicles supposed to be safer than small cars? Yes, they are safer for their occupants in collisions, but their design makes them all the more dangerous for anyone they hit.
Michelle White, an economist at the University of California, San Diego, estimates that for each fatality that light-truck drivers avoid for themselves and their passengers, they cause four fatalities involving car occupants, pedestrians, bicyclists and motorcyclists. "Safety gains for those driving light trucks," Ms. White said, "come at an extremely high cost to others."
Being larger than ordinary vehicles, S.U.V.'s and light trucks cause more damage to upper bodies and heads in collisions. Furthermore, their bumpers do not always align with automobile bumpers, and their body structure is stiffer, transferring more force to other vehicles during impact.
A few weeks ago, the auto industry announced a voluntary plan to deal with some of these design problems. They intend to make side-impact airbags standard to help protect heads and upper bodies better in collisions, and they intend to standardize bumper heights.
These will no doubt be helpful improvements, but do they go far enough?
Recently Ms. White examined the econometrics of traffic accidents in an attempt to measure the benefits and costs of changing the number of light trucks on the road. Professor White's paper can be downloaded from http://econ.ucsd.edu/miwhite/suv-revision.pdf.
Ms. White notes that changing average vehicle size could, in principle, increase or decrease the cost of accidents.
Suppose the cost of a small vehicle-large vehicle collision is $50, the cost of a small vehicle/small vehicle collision is $45, and the cost of a large vehicle-large vehicle collision is $40.
If all vehicles are small, and there are 10 accidents a year, the total cost of the accidents is $450. But if 10 percent of the small vehicles are replaced by large ones, the average cost of collisions becomes $458.50, since more collisions will be between large and small vehicles. On the other hand, if 60 percent of the vehicles on the road are large, the average cost of a collision is only $456, since more collisions are between large vehicles.
Think about a safety-conscious soccer mom choosing a vehicle. If there are mostly small cars in her town, she can reduce the risk to her and her family in the event of a collision by buying an S.U.V. 
The unfortunate side effect is that the large S.U.V. would cause significant damage to smaller cars if she was involved in an accident. 
The laudable private incentive to choose a safe vehicle could, perversely, reduce overall safety.
In addition, Ms. White finds that people involved in single-vehicle crashes are more likely to be killed or seriously injured if they are in S.U.V.'s or light trucks rather than cars. This may be a result of the increased likelihood of rollovers.
On the other hand, suppose everybody in town drives an S.U.V. Then the soccer mom will definitely want to purchase one for herself, since it would both increase her family's safety and reduce the overall costs of collisions.
In this case, private incentives and social incentives are aligned.
The dynamics involved is the same as that of an arms race: if other families buy bigger vehicles, then you will want to as well, if only in self-defense.
To see where we are in this arms race, Ms. White examined crash data maintained by the National Highway Safety Administration at www.nass.nhtsa.dot.gov/nass.
Using this data, Ms. White was able to estimate how the probability of fatalities or serious injury varied with the types of vehicles involved in collisions.
For example, in a two-car accident, the probability of a fatality in the car is 38 percent less than in a car-light truck accident. However, in car-light truck accidents, the probability of fatalities in the light truck is 55 percent less than it would be in a truck-truck accident.
If a light truck hits a pedestrian or a cyclist, the probability of fatalities is about 82 percent greater than if a car is involved.
Ms. White then asked what the impact would be of replacing a million light trucks with cars. She considered two models for driver behavior. In the first, she assumed that the former drivers of light trucks would have the same number of accidents as they did when driving trucks. In the second, she assumed that the former drivers of light trucks would have the same accident probabilities as other car drivers.
Using conventional methods for value-of-life calculations, she finds that each light-truck owner who switches to a car saves about $447 in total expected costs of accidents.
Ms. White examines various policies that might persuade drivers to adopt such changes, including changes in liability rules, traffic rules and insurance rules. 
Unfortunately, each of these policies has its problems, so there are no easy solutions.
One interesting way to reduce the arms race problem would be to link automobile liability insurance to gasoline taxes. This means drivers whose cars use more gasoline and those who drive a lot would pay more for their insurance -- not unreasonable, since, on average, they impose more costs in accidents.
Aaron Edlin, a professor of economics and law at the University of California, Berkeley, has argued that such "pay at the pump" insurance premiums would have many other benefits (www.bepress.com/aaronedlin/contribution5/). So this type of payment scheme is worth considering for a variety of reasons.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The results of an accident in New York involving a sport utility vehicle and a smaller car. Traffic fatalities are on the rise, apparently linked to the increase of S.U.V.'s. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); TRUCK DRIVERS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (75%); MINIVANS (75%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%) University of California

PERSON: Hal R Varian; Michelle White

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); AUSTRALIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



457 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: A Pact on Central America Trade Zone, Minus One 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 17 

 BODY:
The United States sewed up its first new trade agreement in a year marked by reversals and setbacks, completing negotiations on Wednesday with four Central American countries to create a regional free trade pact. 
 But it fell short of its goal of including Costa Rica, the richest nation of the group, and prospects are cloudy for trade progress in the year ahead. 
 Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, saluted his partners from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua, saying they had the courage to agree to open their economies further to United States services and goods. Still, the agreement is but a fraction of the Bush administration's ambitious trade agenda. 
That agenda has faltered on several fronts this year: global trade talks collapsed in Cancun, Mexico, in September; bilateral talks for trade agreements with Morocco and Australia have been delayed; and the agenda for a free-trade agreement for the Western Hemisphere had to be watered down to avoid a debacle.
Free trade advocates say these disappointments reflect deepening concern in the United States and around the world about the direction of trade liberalization and questions about its benefits.
"Part of the reason this year has not been kind to these trade pacts is the advocates of free trade are too fundamentalist in their approach," said Julia Sweig, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and Latin America expert. "They don't give the same level of priority to human capital -- immigration and labor rights -- as they do to inanimate issues like property rights and goods and services."
In the United States, some lawmakers and others are gaining traction in their complaints that free trade agreements have helped propel the country's growing trade deficit, which now stands at $500 billion, and contributed to the loss of three million manufacturing jobs since President Bush took office.
Though the new pact, the Central American Free Trade Agreement, or Cafta, was warmly received by many industry groups in the United States, representatives from the sugar and textile industries as well as some members of Congress were already complaining that it would cost more jobs in return for little benefit.
"In order to get a trade agreement, they had to trade our jobs in sugar," said Dalton Yancey, executive vice president of the Florida Sugarcane League. "But people are more concerned today about jobs, and this agreement means sugar producers and industries in rural America are going to lose more jobs."
Those issues will make it difficult for the administration to win passage of Cafta in Congress in the coming election year. Besides the potential loss of jobs and growth in the trade deficit, lawmakers say they are concerned about labor and environmental standards.
With the administration's tepid trade record and the loss of jobs looming as a major campaign issue, it is questionable whether any of the presidential candidates will be full-throated advocates for free trade and globalization.
This year, the administration has also completed two free trade agreements begun by President Bill Clinton, one with Chile and one with Singapore, but it has won little support on the global stage. World Trade Organization talks in Cancun broke down when a group of 20 developing nations challenged the contention by the United States and Europe that current trade rules are effective in the fight against poverty in the poorest nations.
And the Bush administration backed away from its steel tariffs this month after losing to Europe at the W.T.O., a test of America's commitment to being policed by an international organization.
Cafta exemplifies the free trade dance the administration is having to perform.
Currently, the annual trade between the United States and the four Cafta countries is valued at $15.4 billion, with nearly three-fourths of the products from Central America already entering duty free under special preference programs. 
The United States insisted that the Central American nations open up their protected service areas and agricultural products markets. But at the same time, the United States is resisting a full opening of its borders to sensitive agriculture products like sugar.
Trade officials made no direct claims on Wednesday that the new agreement would lead to an improved trade balance or more jobs for Americans.
Instead, said one, "Cafta and other trade agreements are important components to creating an overall robust economic picture of expanding jobs and exports."
There is growing criticism that social programs, particularly in the public health arena, suffer disproportionately under these new trade agreements. 
The talks over a new free trade agreement with Australia had to be extended in part because the Australian government balked at demands by United States officials to water down the system under which the Australian government negotiates the prices it pays for prescription drugs. 
The new Cafta agreement was criticized by global health advocates who said that the provision strengthening intellectual property rights would weaken generic drug manufacturers in the region.
"This is the worst case scenario," said Rachel Cohen of Doctors Without Borders. "By limiting the ability of generic pharmaceutical companies to compete, it will mean these people lose the lever of generic competition that keeps prices down and gives poor people access to medicine."
Costa Rica, which could still join Cafta, resisted doing so this week because of American demands to open up its services industries and tourist trade, which could mean giving up control of its coastline and its emphasis on ecotourism.
Still, the administration won strong support for Cafta from many industry groups, including the United States Chamber of Commerce.
Mark Smith, the director of Western Hemisphere affairs at the organization, said Cafta was "a strong, high-value and comprehensive agreement."
He said that the United States was correct to insist that Costa Rica open up its services sector.
"Telecommunications has been a state-run monopoly for quite some time," Mr. Smith said. "It's been linked with social programs by extending telecommunication links to rural areas, but the fact is Costa Rica has some of the highest rates in the region."
Similarly, Mr. Zoellick said the textile and apparel industries would be strengthened by closer integration between American yarn and fiber producers and Central American manufacturers.
The industry is facing stiff competition from China and other nations, Mr. Zoellick said, and the agreement will help "to prepare for an increasingly competitive global market."
Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, complained that the South Carolina textile industry had "already lost 62,400 jobs to Mexico, China and other countries."
"This agreement will get rid of the rest," he said. "This is about all of the Bush jobs policy that we can stand."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Opening Doors"Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and the United States have agreed to a Central America free trade zone. Costa Rica is expected to become part of the agreement in the future. 2003 TRADE, IN BILLIONS* Costa RicaEXPORTS TO U.S.: $2.84IMPORTS FROM U.S.: $2.88 HondurasEXPORTS TO U.S.: 2.76IMPORTS FROM U.S.: 2.36 GuatemalaEXPORTS TO U.S.: 2.49IMPORTS FROM U.S.: 1.89 El SalvadorEXPORTS TO U.S.: 1.69IMPORTS FROM U.S.: 1.51 NicaraguaEXPORTS TO U.S.: 0.64IMPORTS FROM U.S.: 0.42 *Through October (Source by Census Bureau's Foreign Trade Division) Map of Central America highlighting Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH; 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (98%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (96%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); LAYOFFS (86%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); TRENDS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); IMMIGRATION (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); SUGAR MFG (67%); EXECUTIVES (62%); TEXTILES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CENTRAL AMERICA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; FREE PORTS AND TRADING ZONES 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%) BECKER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTRAL AMERICA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); COSTA RICA (94%); GUATEMALA (94%); NICARAGUA (94%); HONDURAS (94%); EL SALVADOR (94%); MEXICO (79%); MOROCCO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%) GUATEMALA; HONDURAS; NICARAGUA; EL SALVADOR

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



458 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Two Good Decisions; 
Banishing Snowmobiles

 BODY:
In a federal courtroom in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, Judge Emmet Sullivan declared a halt to the Bush administration's plan to continue and indeed expand snowmobile use in Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks. His ruling, which reinstates a Clinton-administration plan to phase out the snowmobiles, is a victory for the parks, their wildlife and the visitors who come to enjoy both. Beyond that, it is a resounding rebuke to the Bush administration, whose eagerness to satisfy a narrow political constituency caused it to violate its statutory obligation to protect the parks from degradation and to leave them, as the law commands, "unimpaired" for future generations. 
 That snowmobiles impair the parks was never much in doubt -- not to the Park Service employees who hated President Bush's plan; not to the public, whose comments reflected overwhelming disapproval for the plan; and not to the government's own scientists, who concluded that even the newer, quieter snowmobiles the administration had promoted as the ultimate compromise would foul the air and disrupt animal life. 
 Only two groups could possibly benefit from the Bush approach: the off-road-vehicle enthusiasts who regard any limitation on their use of public lands to be an abridgment of individual freedom, and the snowmobile operators in places like West Yellowstone, Mont., whose businesses would temporarily suffer. Their hardship has been exaggerated. The phaseout should allow local economies enough time to switch to quieter, less intrusive snow coaches, and to shift their focus from using snowmobiles in the parks themselves to using them in the surrounding national forests, where there are ample trails.
The judge's ruling is not the end of this controversy. There will be appeals from snowmobile manufacturers, from the State of Wyoming and possibly from the Bush administration itself. One hopes that Mr. Bush will simply abandon an idea that has caused him nothing but grief. If he does not, then we would ask Congress to revive the Yellowstone Protection Act, which would ban snowmobiles. An effort to enact such a ban lost on a tie vote in the House last July. The powerful moral arguments advanced by Judge Sullivan should tip the balance in its favor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); NATIONAL PARKS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SNOWMOBILING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); JUDGES (78%); LITIGATION (73%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (72%); SNOWMOBILE MFG (72%); ANIMALS (71%) PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; SNOWMOBILES; NOISE; AIR POLLUTION; EDITORIALS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; NATIONAL PARKS, MONUMENTS AND SEASHORES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK; GRAND TETON NATIONAL PARK

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



459 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Orbitz Slips on Its First Day As China LifeMoves Higher 

BYLINE:  By Reuters

 BODY:
In their trading debut in New York, shares of the China Life Insurance Company rose about 26 percent, while Orbitz rose initially but fell into negative territory later.
 "They were both oversubscribed to a huge degree, so it shows you there was a lot of cash on the sidelines," John O'Donoghue, co-head of listed trading at Credit Suisse First Boston, said of the initial public offerings. 
 China Life closed its first day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange at $23.72, its initial price of $18.68 for American depository shares, which equal 40 Hong Kong-listed shares. 
Orbitz, after rising 18 percent over its initial price of $26 in the morning session, closed at $24.98 on the Nasdaq, or off about 4 percent on the day. Orbitz operates a Web site selling flights, lodging, rental cars and vacation packages.
"Anytime you get a big I.P.O., it says the market has strengthened," said Frederic H. Dickson, market strategist at D.A. Davidson & Company. "The underwriters are confident, the issuing companies are confident and given that China Life is an international company, it signifies a global comfort level with the market."
A third company, Universal Technical Institute, which provides technical education training, rose 30 percent on the New York Stock Exchange. Its shares closed at $26.35, up from the initial price of $20.50.
Although initial offerings were more for institutions like Wall Street, the spillover will reach retail investors as more public offerings come through next year, Mr. Dickson said.
"It certainly is a good sign for the market, a reflection that the market environment has improved," a floor trader, Ted Weisberg, of Seaport Securities, said.
David Menlow, president of IPOfinancial.com, a research firm, said the activity yesterday "points clearly to the fact that I.P.O.'s never really went away, they were lurking in the background during the uncertainty over the economy."
Companies are again going public, he said, and Wall Street has noticed, "but not with the same disregard for sober thinking."
Sal Morreale, who tracks initial offerings for Cantor Fitzgerald in Los Angeles, said: "This bodes well for '04. China Life is a tremendous I.P.O. and anything to do with China has been on fire. Remember, too, that Orbitz is not the leader in its industry, so for them to make a deal like this is very positive."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wang Xianzhang, chief of China Life, had a favorable reaction to the company's debut on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIFE INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%) Life Insurance; Finances; Life Insurance

COMPANY: CHINA LIFE INSURANCE CO LTD (94%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (90%); D A DAVIDSON & CO (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); UNIVERSAL TECHNICAL INSTITUTE INC (55%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ORBITZ; CHINA LIFE ; China Life Insurance; Orbitz Inc; Universal Technical Institute

TICKER: LFC (NYSE) (94%); 2823 (TAIEX) (94%); 2628 (HKSE) (94%); OWW (NYSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); UTI (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (90%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS611519 OTHER TECHNICAL & TRADE SCHOOLS (55%); SIC8249 VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS, NEC (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); HONG KONG (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



460 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Big Board Is Expected To Name Chief Soon
The New York Stock Exchange is expected to announce as soon as today that John A. Thain, the president of Goldman Sachs, will be the new chief executive of the exchange, according to a person who has been briefed on the situation.
 Mr. Thain would succeed John S. Reed, who has served as interim chairman and chief executive since Richard A. Grasso resigned under pressure in September. The exchange has decided to split the chairman and chief executive's roles; Mr. Reed has indicated he may remain chairman. Page A1. 

Bond Trading Lifts Two Firms
Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns soundly beat expectations in the quarter, benefiting from volatility in the bond and foreign exchange markets. Lehman Brothers said it earned $481 million, or $1.71 a share, up 157 percent from the period a year earlier. Analysts expected it to earn $1.57. Bear Stearns said it earned $288.3 million, or $2.19 a share, up 51 percent. It was expected to earn $1.81. Shares of Bear Stearns rose on the news, while Lehman Brothers fell. C3.

Stocks ended mixed. The Dow Jones industrials rose 15.70 points, to 10,145.26, while the Nasdaq fell 2.96 points, to 1,921.33, and the S.&P. 500 gained 1.35 points, to 1,076.48. C6.

In their trading debut in New York, shares of the China Life Insurance Company rose about 26 percent, while Orbitz rose initially but fell below the offering price later. C3.

Drug Makers Press States
Drug makers -- whose influence in Washington was most recently on display in the debate over a Medicare drug benefit -- are flexing their muscles in state capitals. Eli Lilly tried but failed to exert influence in Kentucky over the proposed exclusion of Zyprexa, an antipsychotic medication that is the state's single biggest drug expense, from the Medicaid list of preferred medications. A1.

U.S. Indicts Former French Bankers
Federal prosecutors indicted six people, including two former chairmen of the French bank Credit Lyonnais, on fraud charges stemming from the bank's takeover of a failed California life insurer a decade ago. C11.

Diageo to Add Nutrition Labels
Diageo, the British liquor company whose brands include Johnnie Walker, Guinness and Smirnoff, is putting nutrition labels on its products to detail how many calories, carbohydrates and alcohol are in each package. C3.

Sole Securities Regulator Urged
Michael E.J. Phelps, left, a prominent Vancouver businessman, led a government-appointed panel in Canada that called for the creation of a single national securities watchdog to replace the array of regional agencies that oversees the country's capital markets. "Canada's regulatory structure is out of step with the needs of its capital market participants and with the rest of the world," the panel's report said. World Business, Section W.

Buying and Selling the Old Way
Bartering is gaining favor among small businesses as a way to buy and sell goods and services without paying cash. Entrepreneurs who join the growing number of retail barter exchanges can trade their products for everything from office renovations to vacations with their grandchildren. Small Business. C5.

The True Cost of S.U.V.'s
An economist dissects the increasingly dangerous and costly arms race on the nation's roads between sport utility vehicles and cars. Hal R. Varian: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,145.26 up 15.70Nasdaq composite -- 1,921.33 down 2.9610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.18% down 0.04The euro -- $1.2404 up 0.0066The dollar -- 107.36 yen down 0.07 Graph "TODAY" shows the percentage change in Leading Indicators from May-Oct. 2003.November figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.3% Graph tracks the share price of Bear Stearns since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (86%); INDICTMENTS (85%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (85%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); BOND MARKETS (75%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (69%); LIFE INSURANCE (69%); PRESCRIPTION FORMULARIES (69%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); MEDICAID (64%); MEDICARE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CHINA LIFE INSURANCE CO LTD (66%); DIAGEO PLC (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (54%); ELI LILLY & CO (53%); CREDIT LYONNAIS SA (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); LFC (NYSE) (66%); 2823 (TAIEX) (66%); 2628 (HKSE) (66%); DGE (PAR) (63%); DGE (LSE) (63%); DEO (NYSE) (63%); OWW (NYSE) (54%); LLY (SWX) (53%); LLY (NYSE) (53%); LEL (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (66%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (63%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (63%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (63%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (63%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (54%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (51%) CANADA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



461 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: New York and Microsoft Expected To FileCivil Suits in Spam Case 

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
Eliot Spitzer, the New York state attorney general, and Microsoft plan to file civil suits today charging one of the nation's most prominent e-mail marketers with fraud stemming from sending unsolicited commercial e-mail, commonly known as spam, according to several people involved in the cases. 
 The suits are expected to name three companies, including OptInRealBig, which is run by Scott Richter, who has been widely identified as a major source of bulk e-mail and has been an outspoken defender of his marketing practices. Mr. Richter said Wednesday that he had been notified by the state attorney general's office and by Microsoft that charges were imminent. He said that the accusations were baseless. 
 A spokesman for the attorney general declined to comment on any potential cases. But a news conference has been scheduled for this morning in Manhattan with Mr. Spitzer and Bradford L. Smith, the general counsel for Microsoft. A spokeswoman for Microsoft, which owns Hotmail, one of the largest e-mail systems in the world, declined to comment. 
The lawsuits, which would be by far the most prominent in a recent flurry of legal efforts to attack spammers, are expected to shed light on the complex web of relationships and technologies behind such e-mail. They also represent an attempt to hold responsible not just those accused of sending e-mail fraudulently, but also those who financially benefit. 
On Tuesday, President Bush signed a law that makes it a crime to send deceptive commercial e-mail. But even in advance of that law, which goes into effect on Jan. 1, state and federal authorities have started to move more aggressively against some of the most prominent bulk e-mailers and companies advertised by spam.
Last week, Virginia indicted two North Carolina men whose e-mail marketing to members of AmericaOnline generated 100,000 complaints in a single month. A week earlier, federal agents arrested Vineet K. Chhabra, operator of one of the largest Internet pharmacies selling diet drugs and Viagra, largely through spam.
"These investigations are very difficult, meticulous work," said Lisa Hicks-Thomas, the director of Virginia's computer crime unit. "You have to trace Internet service providers and bank records."
Many of the big Internet service providers have filed lawsuits against spammers, and they, too, have been using the power of subpoena to gather evidence and identify the most abusive practitioners. Not long ago, America Online sent investigators to Florida to an office suite suspected of being the source of millions of e-mail messages that claimed to offer mortgages at low interest rates. They found an empty office filled with computers that AOL eventually learned were controlled by two Americans living in Thailand, who ran the spam operation by remote control.
New York does not have specific laws against spam, but the attorney general has previously used general business laws against bulk e-mailers. Last year, Mr. Spitzer sued MonsterHut, a marketing firm, claiming it defrauded advertisers by sending their e-mail messages to addresses it had stolen, although it said it marketed only to people who asked to receive promotions. In May, his office charged Howard Carmack of Buffalo with credit card fraud in a lawsuit involving spam. That case is scheduled to be tried next month.
The charges against Mr. Richter and others go to the issue of whether marketers of products or services can be held responsible for the methods used by independent affiliates to sell their wares. 
Mr. Spitzer's office is expected to contend that Paul Boes, an e-mail marketer, sent marketing pitches that forged return addresses and were sent through computers hijacked from unsuspecting home and office users, a technique that is now commonly used by spammers trying to hide their tracks.
Mr. Boes now works for MaxxLength, a Seattle firm that sells penis enlargement pills, Mr. Richter said. Several telephone calls to MaxxLength were not returned.
The lawsuits also are expected to name Synergy6, a New York marketing company, whose Web site, AmericanGiveaways.com, was promoted by Mr. Boes's mailings. Mr. Boes was paid a commission for each visitor to that site by Mr. Richter's company, which in turn was paid by Synergy6.
Such affiliate arrangements are widely used in Internet marketing. 
Mr. Richter and Justin Champion, the president of Synergy6, said that they did not know that Mr. Boes was using deceptive practices in his mailing and that they should not be held liable for his conduct. Mr. Richter said he cut off his arrangement with Mr. Boes after Synergy6 started getting complaints from people who received Mr. Boes's mailings.
"We take any abuse by an affiliate very seriously and if alerted to anything wrong or illegal we terminate it immediately," Mr. Richter said. 
Mr. Champion said the charges were unfair. 
"I have never sent spam or told anyone to send spam," Mr. Champion said. He said that all of his affiliates must agree not to send illegitimate spam or engage in any illegal conduct. "I shouldn't be held responsible for people who are not complying," he said.
New York State is expected to argue that all marketers have a responsibility to control the actions of their agents.
Mr. Champion said that Mr. Richter had been one of his largest affiliates and that he had heard no complaints about his marketing campaigns other than the one run by Mr. Boes.
Mr. Richter has become one of the most prominent and recognizable figures in the debate about spam. His firm sends out more than 100 million e-mail messages a day, promoting dating services, stock tips, mortgages and diet pills. 
Compared with others in such businesses, Mr. Richter has been unusually outspoken and has consistently said that he sends e-mail only to people who have agreed to receive it. He also has maintained that his messages are not deceptive and are not sent using the techniques associated with spammers trying to hide their tracks.
New York's case is said not to challenge those statements directly, but instead to argue that Mr. Richter, through his affiliate programs, enables fraudulent mail to be sent.
Mr. Richter said that he was unconcerned about the lawsuits and expected to defend himself successfully. He said he rejected an offer from the attorney general to settle the case for $100,000.
"Messing with us is a big mistake," he said. "The more press I get, even bad press, the bigger we get."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott Richter expects the lawsuit and calls it baseless. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMAIL MARKETING (95%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (93%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); LITIGATION (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SPAM REGULATION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COMPUTER CRIME (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); SUBPOENAS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); ARRESTS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (66%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (65%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (50%); DIETING (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ELECTRONIC MAIL; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); AOL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: OPTINREALBIG; MICROSOFT CORP; SYNERGY6; AMERICANGIVEAWAYS.COM 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); AOL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) SPITZER, ELIOT L (ATTY GEN); RICHTER, SCOTT; BOES, PAUL; CHAMPION, JUSTIN; HANSELL, SAUL

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); THAILAND (50%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



462 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: NATURE; 
Florists, Hold the Petals

BYLINE:  By ANNE RAVER

 BODY:
IT is a floral arrangement, but with no flowers.
 Instead, there might be giant philodendron leaves in a glass cylinder. Or curled fiddleheads, one to each beaker, arranged on a table like musical notes. 
 Why is there more of less right now? Is it that the sophisticated, discerning eye approves? Or have shrinking budgets been guiding the style? Maybe it's both.
After years of seeing massive Flemish-style arrangements of tulips, peonies, ranunculus and hydrangeas at this onset of dark winter, a peak time in the florist's calendar, we are seeing restrained branches of dark green fir, with a few brown cones dangling over a dark gray metal container. Or a vase of persimmon branches, heavy with orange fruit. 
There is a minimalist contemporary look to these arrangements that speaks to the essence of the thing itself. And green is definitely in. 
(If that's the case, why not comb through a vacant lot in the city, collect a few branches and twigs, stick them in an old chemistry beaker and call it a day?) 
"There's something really beautiful about a bunch of magnolia or pear branches, or even cut boxwood in a cylinder," said James Huniford, a designer based in Chelsea whose minimalist clients have held on to maximum budgets. "There's something about the subtlety of the branches versus a blowout arrangement."
Mr. Huniford and his partner, Stephen Sills, recently designed a penthouse in SoHo for James and Betsy Fifield. The apartment is sleek and open: window walls without curtains, sofas without pillows, a steel table with nary a napkin to mar its gleaming surface. "I can't imagine flowers in this space," Mr. Sills said. "They would look silly." Instead, Mr. Huniford had placed four emerald-green philodendron leaves, each about four feet long and two feet wide, in a tall glass cylinder on a square metal table. The leaves arched over a lower botanical arrangement, a polished slab of mahogany, its shape and striations reflecting its past life as a tree. The cross section served as a natural platter for a dried specimen of something -- gray pods attached to stems with ropy seaweedlike leaves -- that no one had ever seen before. (Different, as always, is in.)
"I don't know what these things are," Mr. Huniford said. "I just like the way they look." He bought this mysterious plant, along with the tropical leaves, at Caribbean Cuts, a wholesaler at 120 West 28th Street.
Tropicals took New York by storm in the 1970's, but the look was different. "It looked like Havana in the 50's," said Thomas R. Weisse of Caribbean Cuts. "They were jamming as many as possible into a container. Now the sleek minimal look is in."
Last week, the shop cat, Ginger, was seated on a pile of dark brown pods that looked curiously like giant lima bean pods. I'd seen them stuck like elegant sculptures, in a teak container, at Takashimaya, on Fifth Avenue. "I call them human beans," Mr. Weisse said. "My supplier won't tell me what they are." He was also selling the dried cecropia leaves I'd seen so artfully placed, in old crocks, at Takashimaya. Each of these big crumpled tan leaves, striated with jet-black veins, was a thing of beauty. Yet maybe I think so because of all those branches and leaves I've been seeing in restaurants and store windows. 
Mr. Weisse said: "You've got the restaurants, the hotels, the magazines, all under budget constraints. You've got the Internet recession. The stock market collapses. And suddenly the minimal look is in vogue." After 9/11, he said, "No one wanted to look excessive."
At Takashimaya, Raymundo Maltos is selling a lot of stick sculptures, made of pussy-willow branches, hung here and there with the sedums known as hens and chicks. Or gluing the hens and chicks to boxes, as if they were bows. "I call it French Japanese," said Mr. Maltos, who grew up in Mexico.
Priscilla Schaefer, a designer who owns Glorimundi on Seventh Avenue near 28th Street, said her corporate business had been hit hard, despite a recent uptick in the economy. "It's about 40 to 60 percent of what it was," she said. "A $70,000 decor budget for a dinner for 120 guests might now be a cocktail party, to no spouses, to nothing." If a company is laying off employees, she said, "they don't think it's appropriate to entertain."
Clients will ask what they can get without spending a fortune. A bunch of persimmons or pomegranates or greens in water will still look clean and fresh after a week. That's a much better buy than tulips or peonies, which will rarely last that long.
Even those who still crave blossoms in the middle of winter seem eager to have a different presentation. Ms. Schaefer likes to take one kind of flower and duplicate it. "Like calla lilies, ranunculus or tulips," she said, "all in the same color palette, each in their own vase." It's like worshiping the essence of the thing, to the max.
Last week, the reception desk of her studio was graced with six glass beakers, each holding the curving brown woody stem of a dried fiddlehead fern.
"It's music," Ms. Schaefer said. "It suggests something emotional." It's also a quieter appreciation of the natural world.
Deborah Nevins, a garden designer with an office in SoHo, said that bringing branches inside in the winter was "like being with nature when you can't be." Sometimes she will bring a single branch of a tree from her East Hampton garden and place it in a vase on her mantel. "As you stare at it, in a room undisturbed, you become more intimate with it," she said.
But this is nothing new, really. About 20 years ago, Ms. Nevins visited Marie-Adelaide Mallet at her house, designed by Edwin Lutyens in the late 1890's, at Les Bois des Moutiers in Normandy. 
"There was a Bokara rug over the table, where she was playing bridge with three other old ladies," Ms. Nevins said. "There were raspberry branches in her vases, and big branches of linden. It was so beautiful, I've never forgotten."
Recently, Ms. Nevins helped friends in Paris decorate an 18th-century paneled room for a party by simply buying some tiny junipers and planting them in small terra cotta pots. "I lined them up on the mantel," she said. "It was my fantasy of the French forest."
And then there is the Asian influence, with its sophisticated pared-down sensibility. Claire Won Kang, who grew up in South Korea, tries to teach an Asian aesthetic to students at the New York Botanical Garden.
"We are so busy, people want to look at one simple thing," she said. "When customers want more and bigger, I say, 'Don't be greedy. Empty your heart. If there are too many things, nobody can get in.' " After 20 years in New York, she sees the Asian influence seeping into floral design and also into architectural spaces and gardens.
"It's like sushi," she said. "At first, nobody wanted sushi. Now, everybody loves it."
In Harlem, Katrina Parris has decorated her shop on Seventh Avenue near 112th Street with branches of curly willow set in three tall metal containers. Here and there the branches support big white cattleya orchids. (Her inspiration was the snow that used to gather in clumps on the rhododendrons around her childhood home in western Massachusetts.) Steel grass, tinted with silver, arches over moss at the base of the branches. 
"I wanted to give it a dense frost look," she said, showing how lights created the illusion of a cold morning. The arrangement has a pleasant lack of central focus.
"The idea is to have your eye flow through them, rather than be directed to any one point," she said.
Most striking was a classic, a simple spiraling vine of bittersweet, tied to curly willow, that danced out of a glass vase.
"A lot of people are saying, 'Money's tight. I want a smaller party.' " Ms. Parris said. She considers a tight budget a kind of discipline. As she put it, "You don't have 3,000 flowers to hide behind."

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE CHRISTMAS BOUQUET PARES DOWN -- Four philodendron leaves; six fiddlehead ferns. (Photographs by Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. F1); FROM LITTLE ACORNS -- Takashimaya uses plant materials instead of flowers. Above, the sedums known as hens and chicks are used as bows; inset right, not a plan for the World Trade Center, but pussy-willow branches hung with hens and chicks, $300 and up. Bittersweet vine interwoven with curly willow, right, by Katrina Parris, $150. Above left, minimalism to the max: a single philodendron leaf in a glass holder, by Sills & Huniford. (Photos by above, Meg Henson for The New York Times; Barbara Alper for The New York Times insets )(pg. F6) Chart: "What the Well-Dressed Table Wears"The trend toward lean and green holiday centerpieces may inspire home florists to root around in the backyard for boxwood stems, tree branches and ornamental grasses. For New Yorkers without yards, arrangements can be profesionally designed and delivered. Arranger: Caribbean CutsLocation: 120 West 28th Street, (212) 924-6969What You Get: Three giant philodendron leaves, two and a half feet high, in a glass cylinder.Cost: $120Comments: Lasts 10 to 30 days. Delivery is $20 (Manhattan only). Arranger: TakashimayaLocation: 693 Fifth Avenue (54th Street), (212) 350-0100What You Get: Pussy-willow branches hung with hens and chicks, in various sizes, smallest about one foot high and two feet wide.Cost: $300 and upComments: Lasts up to three months. Delivery is $20 within Manhattan and $60 in the tristate area. Arranger: GlorimundiLocation: 307 Seventh Avenue, (28th Street), (212) 727-7090What You Get: An arrangement of brunea, eucalyptus, olive pods and green orchids, 10 inches high and 14 inches wide, in a metal container.Cost: $150Comments: Lasts up to two weeks. Delivery is $15 in Manhattan, $20 to $50 in other boroughs. Arranger: Katrina Parris FlowersLocation: 1844 Seventh Avenue (112th Street), (212) 222-7030What You Get: Six curly willow branches, three feet high, hung with white orchids, in a glass cylinder.Cost: $150Comments: Lasts 7 to 10 days. Delivery is $25 within Manhattan and $25 to $45 in other boroughs. (pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLORISTS (89%); CHRISTMAS (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (67%) 

PERSON: Anne Raver

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



463 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Circuits; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: ONLINE DIARY 

BYLINE:  By Pamela LiCalzi O'Connell

 BODY:
Shopping Game 
Think of the Grocery Game (www.thegrocerygame.com) as an electronic game you play in a real supermarket, not a virtual one. 
 The goal is not just to save money through coupons and stockpiling. It's also to take the drudgery out of cost-conscious grocery shopping. Indeed, based on the site's message boards, many participants experience an endorphin rush similar to reaching the next level in a video game. 
 Membership in the service costs $10 every eight weeks for information about one store in your area, and $15 for two stores. In return, you can log in to the site weekly for a localized list of advertised and unadvertised sales at the supermarkets selected. A color-coded system tells you the best time to buy specific items. Does it work? Teri Gault, the founder of the site, said the average "savings report" posted by members was $492 a month. 
The site is growing quickly. In the last nine months it has gone from a few thousand subscribers to 15,000, and from 2 states to 28. Ms. Gault, 43, of Santa Clarita, Calif., is a professional singer who developed a strategy for grocery shopping when her family went through a rough patch financially. "I made a list for my local store and when I saw what I could save I thought, why not put the list online?" she said.
Although it is only marginally like an electronic game, the site has drawn some attention from the online gaming community because it straddles the real and virtual worlds. "The online clubhouse aspect and the fact that you have rules that lead to an outcome make it very interesting from a gaming perspective," said Ian Bogost, a video game researcher and designer who maintains a blog at watercoolergames.org. "It's an example of using play to gain insights into the real world, in this case, the economics of the grocery industry."

Vini, Vidi, Video
WillInternet users eventually integrate digital video into their online conversations as easily as they do text today?
That is one of the research questions underlying the Open Video Project (open-video.org). The site, run by the School of Information and Library Science at the University of North Carolina, can lead you to nearly 2,000 short videos available for viewing at the site or downloading, from classic TV commercials and 1950's sex education films to Himalayan anthropological studies and vaudeville clips. 
Gary Marchionini, a director of the project and a professor of information science, said the site had received financing from the National Science Foundation to study "how to make video understandable and accessible to Web users." The project's use of storyboards and fast forwarding make it one of the most pleasant places to view video online.
The site's rich lode of free video content, however, is what will attract the general user. This content is easy to browse by genre and keyword (a list of the most popular videos is also a good starting point). Dr. Marchionini said that teachers and artists have taken "chunks" of the videos and "repurposed" them for lessons and creative projects -- an important step, he hopes, toward the routine use of online video to "help get ideas across." 
It should be noted that while the site accepts submissions, Dr. Marchionini has had to reject more than a few home movies with titles like "Our Skateboarding Party." 

A Wild Ride
When Walt Disney World announced plans to close Mr. Toad's Wild Ride in 1998, Spencer Cook of Clearwater, Fla., was among the protesters. But the ride, based on a Disney film version of "The Wind in the Willows," was scuttled in favor of one featuring Winnie the Pooh. 
There's a large online fandom for "extinct" Disney rides, as reflected by such sites as yesterland.com. Mr. Cook, 37, was not content with simply penning tributes or posting photographs, however. Instead, he is recreating the ride itself through 3-D animation at www.virtual-toad.com. 
Mr. Cook has spent five years on the project so far. He is a freelance TV producer, not an artist or computer expert, and he has nearly completed the first two of what will eventually be more than 20 rooms. He is working from memory as well as personal photos and video clips of the ride, a manic trip in a turn-of-the-century car. "It's about nostalgia and historical preservation," he said. 
At least two other sites are creating virtual versions of discontinued Disney rides: Adventure Thru Inner Space (www.atommobiles.com/cgi-project.htm), a Disneyland attraction that gave visitors the experience of being smaller than an atom, and If You Had Wings (dizneyworld.net/iyhw.html), a Disney World ride to exotic travel destinations. Although these re-creations have not been authorized by Disney, a spokesman said the company "appreciates their passion." 
Why do Disney rides inspire such allegiance? "Disney is one of the few organizations that produce elaborate dark rides, that invest in story line," explained Cory Doctorow, a technology activist and writer whose recent novel, "Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom," is set in a Disney World of the future. 
"Disney invites us to create memories in its parks," he added. Still, he said, it has the right to change, even if that means "it can take part of what inspired that memory away."

On the Radar
Today is the last day to join an "eBay Secret Santa Group" with your friends, family or complete strangers (santa.ebay.com). Mistletunes.com lists holiday songs from all erasand genres. NASA's Santa tracker offers a sampling of Christmas Eve liftoff lingo (liftoff.msfc.nasa.gov/home/seasonal/SantaTrack.html). 

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (94%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (78%); VIRTUAL REALITY (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (77%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%); INFORMATION SCIENCE (68%); GAMING (64%); LIBRARY SCIENCE (64%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (63%); SEX EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (59%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (51%) Computers and the Internet; Food; Supermarkets; Recordings (Video); Amusement and Theme Parks; Three-Dimensional Devices; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, World (Orlando, Fla)

PERSON: Pamela Licalzi O'Connell

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



464 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1668 words

HEADLINE: A Voice in the Calling Wilderness 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
MAYBE you have had the fantasy while sitting at home for an entire afternoon and waiting for a 10-minute visit from the phone company to install a new telephone line. Or maybe the dream has come to you while were you on hold, once again, hoping to resolve the latest billing mix-up caused by Verizon, SBC or whichever local phone company dominates your market.
 For me, it began when my family moved into a new apartment this year and Verizon informed us that we would need to wait two weeks for a working phone line. Once that service began, we would have to pay about $50 a month even though we wanted to make only local phone calls on the line. Thinking we were without any better options given the dodgy quality of mobile phones, we grudgingly said yes. 
 But I could not shake a fantasy that millions of other Americans have had. I imagined that I could respond to the monopolistic customer service of local phone companies the same way I would react to such treatment by a restaurant or a shoe store and take my business elsewhere. I dreamed of an economy in which I was not all but required to tithe the descendants of Ma Bell every month. 
Little did I know, that economy already existed. Thanks to the proliferation of high-speed Internet connections in homes, a jumble of companies, including start-ups and cable television operators, have begun to sell telephone service that does not rely on a traditional phone line. Instead, the service typically enters homes through a cable modem and connects to a simple phone, which emits a reassuring dial tone when picked up. 
Stewing over my latest experience with Verizon, I soon decided to do something that I rarely do: become an early adopter of a new technology. For the last month, my wife and I have relied on the Internet for our main phone line. The service, from Vonage, a New Jersey company that is the largest of the start-ups, costs less than $30 a month (including taxes) for unlimited local calls, 500 minutes of long distance, voice mail, caller ID and the like. For unlimited long distance as well, the price is about $38 a month, about $30 less than what Verizon, MCI or AT&T charge for similar packages.
None of this would matter, of course, if Internet phone service suffered from dropped calls and scratchy reception as often as mobile phones do. But the most encouraging result of our experiment has been the nearly imperceptible difference between a land line and a Vonage connection, save one disappointing call. The friends and relatives we spoke with never asked what kind of phone we were using or, the ultimate insult, whether we were on a cellphone. 
Before spending an hour as a guest on a radio talk show, I asked the producer how our connection was, and he rated it "great." 
There are still drawbacks. Unless you have a backup battery, a blackout like last summer's can knock out Internet phone service even when traditional phones continue to work. A breakdown in cable TV service, hardly an unknown phenomenon, would do the same. Vonage phone numbers will not be listed in the phone book. And a call to 911 will not display the caller's address to the operator. 
But telephone and cable TV companies have made clear in recent weeks how serious a competitive threat Internet telephones pose. Time Warner, with help from Sprint and MCI, will soon offer Internet phone service to many of its cable customers, and AT&T is following suit by using high-speed telephone data lines, known as D.S.L., instead of cable modems.
"It's a very scary situation for the incumbent telephone carriers," said Charles Golvin, a senior analyst at Forrester Research, speaking on a Vonage phone line himself, "because they're going to have real competition." 
Vonage now has almost 80,000 customers, up from 7,000 a year ago. (Over all, according to the research firm InStat/MDR, about 135,000 American consumers now have Internet phone service.) Part of the service's early success stems from its relative freedom from federal rules that bind phone companies. It barely needs to charge its customers any taxes, at least for now, and it does not have a mandate to ensure universal telephone access across the country, as the Baby Bells do. 
Federal regulators will probably need to level the playing field at some point, but Internet phone service will still increase competition. Even with a 1996 law intended to foster competition in local markets, the Baby Bells have so far retained much of their power. While long-distance carriers now have the right to sell local service, they must lease the lines from local carriers, creating abundant opportunity for trouble. A married couple I know in the Bronx went more than a month without service while AT&T and Verizon blamed each other about which company was responsible for the problem. 
Internet phone service avoids this free-market bottleneck by circumventing the so-called last mile of telephone wiring, which is owned by the Baby Bells. Companies like Vonage instead break down voice traffic into packets of data that are sent through cyberspace and reconstituted as voice on the other end. If the person receiving the call has a land line, Vonage pays a fee to the local phone company to complete the call. 
After reading about Vonage in a handful of places, I did a Google search for it and quickly found a coupon that made the second month of service free. (The company says it can transfer most land-line or mobile-phone numbers to a Vonage account, although we did not try to do so; we were given a number in the 646 area code.) Including a $30 activation fee, my start-up costs amounted to about $85, about half of which was for a device called a router that permits simultaneous calling and Web surfing. Vonage has since switched to a different device, which acts as both router and phone adapter and which it sends to new customers free. 
Setting up the system was not as easy as Vonage had advertised, but a phone conversation with a customer service agent from the router manufacturer cleared up the confusing directions from the manual. Minutes later I was listening to a dial tone (a fake one, piped in by Vonage to make the system feel familiar). In my own version of "Mr. Watson, come here!" I then dialed my parents and announced: "Hi, Mom. I'm talking to you from the Internet." She did not know what I was talking about, which was precisely the point.
Over the next month, few other people suspected anything was different, either. My wife, Laura, and I alternated between thinking the sound quality was just as good as it was on a land line and judging it to be slightly worse. At times, voices seemed tinnier than they did on a land line, almost as if we were using the phone in a big, empty room.
We never lost a call, but it does happen. Mr. Golvin, the analyst at Forrester, said he occasionally had trouble with incoming calls on his Vonage line. And when a Vonage employee called me on an Internet line to set up an interview with Mr. Citron, the message left on my voice mail was indecipherable.
"We're not that happy with the level of service today," said Jeffrey Citron, Vonage's chief executive, adding that the company was working to improve it. "You shouldn't ever be able to tell the difference" between an Internet line and a land line, he said.
For us, the service became a problem only once, when Laura was uploading photographs onto our computer and I was talking on the telephone. The call became fuzzy, presumably because too much data was flowing over our cables at once. Mr. Citron said the device Vonage now sends to customers gives priority to voices, allowing calls to sound normal and delaying simultaneous downloads by a few seconds. 
The smaller start-ups that offer Web phone service seem more problematic. As part of my experiment, I persuaded some other family members to sign up with two Vonage rivals, and none of my relatives was satisfied. My sister and her husband signed up for VoicePulse, and they found that their phone line often slipped out of the device it was plugged into. During the one conversation I had with them over the line, we were cut off three times for no apparent reason.
My parents used Packet8, and I had high hopes for it, since it costs a little more than $20 a month for unlimited calling to anyone in the United States and Canada. But their line simply went dead one night, and the customer service department was never easy to reach. 
With Vonage, I suspect most people will find that the biggest drawback is needing to bind their phone to their modem. This makes a cordless phone essentially mandatory. If you are using the Internet for your primary phone line, you will probably want to buy a splitter at an electronics store, allowing you to have more than one phone for the line.
We still have some reservations about Vonage, but the big difference in cost and the tiny difference in quality have persuaded us to make it our main phone line. We are now trying to decide whether to keep a bare-bones land line at a monthly cost of about $18 in case of emergency, or whether we feel comfortable relying on a combination of a cellphone and a backup battery for the cable modem. 
In other words, this service is far from perfect, and all of the individual companies seem to have the potential to provide the same kind of what-me-worry customer service as local phone companies. And can anybody really get excited about relying even more on Time Warner or other cable companies, which tend to act like the monopolies they long have been?
But the wonderful thing about a competitive market is that the foibles of any one company will not matter for long. If Time Warner tries to overcharge you, you can switch to Vonage. If Vonage regularly makes you wait on hold for 15 minutes to get the answer to a simple question, as it did to me this week, you can sign up with AT&T. Maybe Verizon and other Baby Bells, once they are forced into real competition for customers, will emerge as the best choice. They just won't be the only one.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 2, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Circuits on Dec. 18 about Internet-based telephone service misstated the plans of AT&T. It says that in addition to offering such service to consumers over high-speed telephone data lines, the company will indeed provide it over cable modems. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Glenn Mitsui) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (88%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (78%); BROADBAND (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); MODEMS (65%); SHOE STORES (52%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (50%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Computers and the Internet; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Television

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); VONAGE HOLDINGS CORP (58%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); VG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



465 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Facing Deficit, Virginia Governor Proposes Redoing Tax Code 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va., Dec. 17 

 BODY:
Stepping into a political minefield, Gov. Mark Warner of Virginia proposed a sweeping overhaul of the state's tax code on Wednesday that he said would reduce taxes for two-thirds of Virginians, increase revenue and shift more of the tax burden onto the rich. 
 The plan, part of the governor's two-year budget proposal to the General Assembly, comes at a time when Virginia is facing a $1.2 billion budget shortfall over the next two years and the threat of a downgrading of the triple-A bond rating it has enjoyed for decades. 
 The state just confronted a fiscal crisis that caused a $6 billion hole in the budget last year, forcing the government to cut spending on higher education and other programs, to eliminate 5,000 state jobs and to freeze the scheduled phasing out of an unpopular automobile tax. 
Instead of proposing a new round of deep cuts, Mr. Warner, a Democrat, has chosen in his current proposal to revamp the tax code -- considered antiquated by Republicans and Democrats alike -- to increase some rates, to reduce others and over all to raise $1 billion in additional revenue over two years.
"I am convinced that the tax and budget reform plan I have proposed meets the test of fairness for all Virginians," Mr. Warner told legislators on Wednesday. "I am confident this plan is the right medicine for Virginia's economy." 
"By lowering the tax burden for low- and middle-income families," he said, "we will stimulate consumer spending and job creation." 
The proposal represents a major political gamble for Mr. Warner, 49, who is considered a rising star in the Democratic Party and a potential candidate for the Senate in 2006. During the 2001 campaign for governor, Mr. Warner, a wealthy businessman who ran as a fiscal conservative, pledged not to raise income or sales taxes. His plan would increase both.
"It's disingenuous to suggest a promise is just a campaign sound bite and disregard it once you are elected," said Kate Obenshain Griffin, the chairwoman of the Virginia Republican Party. "I think voters will remember that."
Republicans control both houses of the General Assembly. 
Moreover, Governor Warner has proposed raising taxes at a time when antitax sentiment seems strong across the nation. 
Voters in Alabama overwhelmingly rebuffed a similar tax-overhaul proposal by Gov. Bob Riley, a Republican, earlier this year. Antitax groups in Oregon are pushing to rescind a tax increase enacted by their legislature. And Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger won victory in the California's recall election this fall partly by suggesting that he would not raise taxes to close a yawning budget gap.
Indeed, experts in government policy say there has been a fundamental shift by state governments away from imposing new taxes to solve budget problems. In the last major fiscal crisis, in 1991, states with budget shortfalls levied $15.4 billion in new taxes, about four times as much as states raised in new taxes this year, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. 
"A lot of folks had campaigns mounted against them because of actions they took during the 1991 crisis," said Arturo Perez, an analyst with the conference. 
Under Governor Warner's plan, the top tax rate for people with incomes over $100,000 would be raised by half a percentage point, to 6.25 percent. The personal exemption would be increased to $1,000, from $800, and the standard deduction for individuals would rise to $4,000, from $3,000. The plan would also remove thousands of people from the tax rolls by raising the threshold for filing returns for individuals to $7,000, from $5,000; and for couples to $14,000, from $8,000. 
The plan calls for raising the sales tax on consumer goods by one cent, to 5.5 percent; lowering the tax on food to 2.5 percent, from 4 percent; and increasing taxes on cigarettes to 25 cents a pack, from 2.5 cents, the lowest in the nation. The plan would eliminate the estate tax on family farms, family-owned businesses and all estates valued under $10 million, and it would complete the phaseout of the car tax by 2008.
According to a computer program available on one of the governor's official Web sites, a family of four that earns $25,000 a year would save $202 in taxes, provided members did not smoke. If they smoked a pack a day, their savings would decline by $82. A family of four nonsmokers that earned $500,000 a year would, on the other hand, see their taxes rise by $2,300 under the plan. 
Governor Warner contends that 65 percent of Virginians would pay lower taxes under his plan. Republican leaders dispute that figure and contend that the plan would hurt businesses and stunt job growth. 
"I wouldn't say it's dead on arrival, but it has a serious case of the flu," said Delegate H. Morgan Griffith, the House majority leader.
But Republican attitudes are far from monolithic. Some Republican legislators support raising the top income tax rate for wealthy filers and increasing sales tax revenues, possibly with a tax on services. 
Senator Emmett W. Hanger Jr., a Republican from northwestern Virginia, said local governments would be forced to continue raising property taxes if the state did not generate new money for things like schools and roads. 
"I think my constituents will be much better off if we can raise revenues at the state level and channel that money back to the local level," Mr. Hanger said. 
But if opponents of the plan are somewhat fractured, there is no clear body of support for it, either. Liberal groups, for instance, argue that the plan hurts the working poor by raising sales and cigarette taxes, while not shifting enough of the tax burden onto the wealthy.
"There's good news and bad news in it," said the Rev. Fletcher Lowe, executive director of the Virginia Interfaith Center for Public Policy, a nonprofit group. "But on balance, I think it is a negative for the working poor."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (92%); BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX REFORM (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SALES TAX (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); JOB CREATION (68%); FAMILY (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (54%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Government Bonds; Taxation; Ratings and Rating Systems

PERSON: MARK WARNER (90%); BOB RILEY (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%) Mark R (Gov) Warner; James Dao

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Virginia

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



466 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
A Family With Many Goals Must First Find a Home

BYLINE:  By ARTHUR BOVINO

 BODY:
When Andrea Fergus, 40, stresses the importance of education to her six children, they can look to her actions as proof of her sincerity.
 Mrs. Fergus already has two degrees: an associate degree and a bachelor's degree in human services from New York City Technical College. And she is not done yet. She is pursuing a master's degree in psychology at Brooklyn College and has kept up a 3.85 grade-point average through two semesters. She wants to go to medical school and be a social worker, a dietitian and a psychiatrist. 
 In her view, there are no excuses for not having high goals and finding ways to achieve them. That's a mind-set she has maintained through financial hardship, family struggles, even the loss of a child.
She believes in tough love and discipline for her children, Latiya Joyce, 21; Nakima Joyce, 17; Harmel Hammond, 12; the twins, Jalaise and Jalasia Hammond, both 9; and Blayne Fergus, 16 months. When their mother has something to say, they know to listen.
"Watch this," she said, knocking three times lightly on the wall behind her, "Someone will come."
Latiya and the twins entered quickly and sat down. Latiya, who took time off from school to have a baby, looks forward to getting a degree in accounting. Nakima wants to join the Army National Guard and become a lawyer. Harmel, who hopes to be a judge, teasingly tells Nakima, "Then I can throw you out of court."
Mrs. Fergus has had a lot of support from her husband, Blane Fergus, 49, a photocopier repairman who sells Saddam Hussein playing cards, umbrellas, T-shirts and mirrors on weekends to make ends meet.
Mr. Fergus makes about $320 a month from repair work, which he can sometimes supplement with about $250 from his side job. They also receive $555 in food stamps and $157 in public assistance each month. The family lives on $968 a month. Of that, $172 pays their share of rent on a three-bedroom apartment in East Flatbush, Brooklyn; a federal rent subsidy pays the remaining $1,000. Mrs. Fergus is not working while going to school.
But being a repairman and a part-time salesman, no matter how effective his recently discovered talent, is not enough for Mr. Fergus or his wife.
"The next thing is going to be for him to go back to school," Mrs. Fergus said, pointing to her husband. 
To pursue her own education, Mrs. Fergus has had to be resourceful. Some semesters, she has been able to get free tuition by working at the college, but for the most part she has taken out loans. 
Mrs. Fergus and her family are used to hardship, and not just of the financial sort. Most notably, she lost a newborn child, Dsire, to sudden infant death syndrome in 1990.
Three years later she made a difficult choice, leaving a job at the post office after a decade so that she could raise her newborn twins.
Sometimes, when things gets overwhelming, she takes a walk to calm down. But she always makes time for her family. They gather weekly in the living room for family meetings.
As a child, Mrs. Fergus was a beneficiary of the Fresh Air Fund, a nonprofit agency that since 1877 has provided free summer vacations in the country for more than 1.7 million needy children from New York City. Her experience in a Fresh Air camp led her to register her twin daughters for Fresh Air vacations since they were 4 years old.
This summer, there were more immediate concerns. With money tight and the twins in need of new clothes, Mrs. Fergus sought help from the Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens, one of seven charities that participate in The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
Mrs. Fergus is no stranger to the Catholic Charities; she worked there as an intern from 1999 to 2000 as a caseworker. When she turned to the agency for help, her caseworker, Izabella Markovskaya, secured $276.58 in Neediest Cases money for pants, tights, shoes, undershirts and sweaters for the children. Mrs. Fergus also received $209.98 from the Neediest Cases Fund for a crib and a mattress in September 2002.
But as the holidays approach, Mrs. Fergus and her family face a problem more serious than the need for a new pair of sneakers or a piece of furniture. Their landlord has asked them to leave because he needs the apartment for his own family. They have until January to find a new home nearby with enough room.
"It's Christmastime; where are we going?" Mrs. Fergus said. "There's no Christmas tree. If we could just get to moving we'd decorate the boxes and be happy."
Moving out of East Flatbush could mean a long commute for her to Brooklyn College. It could also force the children to change schools, possibly causing instability.
"I'm not going to live where my kids are going to become drug dealers," Mrs. Fergus said. "You can live in the ghetto, but you don't have to be ghetto."
"But," Latiya Joyce said, "you don't want them to forget where they came from. I didn't mess up." She lifted up her 2-week-old daughter, Da'Jahna, expressing pride in having had the common sense to wait until her 20's to have a child.
Mrs. Fergus replied, "Well, that's because your head's just screwed on right."
Mrs. Fergus takes credit for that.

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $4,300,258.18
Recorded Tuesday: 96,623.05

Total: $4,396,881.23
Last year to date: $4,688,075.25

CORRECTION-DATE: December 20, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about Andrea Fergus, a mother of six children who attends Brooklyn College and received help from Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens, a beneficiary of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, misstated her employment situation. She works part time as a student aide at the college; she is not unemployed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clockwise from left are Latiya Joyce, with her 2-week-old daughter, Da'Jahna; Blane Fergus and 16-month-old Blayne Fergus; Andrea Fergus; Harmel Hammond, 12; and Jalasia and Jalaise Hammond, both 9. (Photo by Lucian Read/World Picture News, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); FAMILY (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (70%); RENTAL PROPERTY (66%); SUDDEN INFANT DEATH SYNDROME (65%); ARMIES (53%) 

ORGANIZATION: New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) Arthur Bovino; Andrea Fergus

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



467 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Surviving 9/11, but Not Aftermath; 
A Wall Street Landmark to End Short Run as a Luxury Hotel

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
The great gray dowager empress of Wall Street was transformed four years ago into the belle of the ball. Today, the ball is nearly over.
 In its lustrous past, the Greek Revival landmark at 55 Wall Street was home to the fledgling New York Stock Exchange, to Herman Melville when he was a deputy customs inspector and to Citibank as it rose to national prominence. Reborn in 1999 as the Regent Wall Street hotel, the Regent ballroom and the 55 Wall restaurant, it has been a social and political hub ever since. 
 After the attack on the World Trade Center, hundreds of downtown residents gathered under its glowing gold dome, marble Corinthian columns and deeply coffered ceiling for a town meeting. President Bush delivered his speech on corporate malfeasance there and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg outlined his vision for Lower Manhattan. The impresario Clive Davis used it for his Grammy party this year. Liza Minnelli and David Gest celebrated their wedding there. 
That was not the only unhappy ending.
The Regent is preparing to close on Jan. 17 after one of the shortest runs of any deluxe hotel in the city's history. It is a victim not only of the attack on New York -- through which it resolutely stayed open, sheltering and feeding victims, workers and neighbors -- but of an economy that was souring even before Sept. 11, 2001.
"At some point, you have to say it doesn't make sense to continue to bear the losses," said Christopher R. J. Knable, the president of the hotel. The building, between William and Hanover Streets, is owned by a partnership led by Sidney Kimmel, chairman of the Jones Apparel Group.
Though Mr. Knable acknowledged a recent rebound in business, he said occupancy of the 144-room hotel fell at one point after the attack to less than 10 percent and nightly room rates dropped from the mid-$500's to the mid-$200's. (They are back to $525 a night for a 600-square-foot room, $1,250 for suites with terraces; occupancy is 75 to 80 percent, Mr. Knable said.)
Without being specific about the amount of the losses, Mr. Knable said: "It's a big number. One cannot continue to sustain a business, even with the rebound, to the extent Mr. Kimmel has done."
What is to become of the nine-story building, with its double colonnade of Ionic and Corinthian columns and its 12,000-square-foot rotunda? Residential conversion is certainly an option, Mr. Knable said. As for the ballroom operating independently, he said it had not been discussed.
"It's important to Sidney that the building continue to serve the public in some fashion," he said. "We have a responsibility to our staff to make sure everybody is employed as quickly as possible. Beyond that, nothing has been decided." The hotel has about 200 employees.
A job fair has been held and another is planned. Union members who lose jobs through a closing receive preference in hiring at other hotels, said John Turchiano, a spokesman for the New York Hotel Trades Council. Because Regent Wall Street employees are "top-notch workers," he said, they "should not have too much difficulty."
With six stout Christmas trees standing among the 30-foot-high, 33-ton granite columns along the Wall Street facade, the Regent does not look like a hotel about to shut down.
That is just the way Asaad M. Farag, the general manager, wants it. The Regent will be run as a luxury hotel "100 percent to the last second," said Mr. Farag, who still cannot resist running his finger across tabletops in the hallways.
The final event in the ballroom will be a dinner on Jan. 15 to benefit the Wall Street Rising neighborhood coalition, of which Mr. Knable is a board member.
"I'm really dreading the day when I go in there for the last time," said Julie Menin, the president of Wall Street Rising, adding that the Regent had come to be "almost in a way like a town hall."
It was perhaps never so much a town hall as in late 2001. "Coming together for events and meetings in this beautifully preserved, historic building was particularly meaningful to the downtown community after the shattering experiences of 9/11," said Kathryn S. Wylde, president and chief executive of the Partnership for New York City.
One of the first such meetings brought downtown residents face to face with city, state and federal officials in a session moderated by Madelyn Wils, chairwoman of Community Board 1. "When you have 2,000 or 3,000 people suffering from trauma in one room, it's quite an event," she recalled.
Ms. Wils said the closing "represents exactly the opposite of everything we're trying to do down here."
Michelle A. Adams, executive director of the Association for a Better New York, said she hoped the ballroom would reopen as an event space.
Because the Cipriani family briefly operated the ballroom and restaurant before Regent International Hotels took over, rumors of their return are common. Mr. Knable is a partner in Cipriani Knable International, which is developing Cipriani hotels overseas. He said that was "completely separate from what is happening with 55 Wall."
Organizers are not sure where else they would go downtown. "There are no other venues that can hold a sit-down dinner for 800 people," Ms. Menin said.
Sit-down dinners for 800 were not exactly what the architect Isaiah Rogers had in mind when he designed the Merchants' Exchange. It opened in 1842 with offices for insurers, bankers and brokers, including the New York Stock and Exchange Board, later the Stock Exchange, which was there until 1854.
From 1862 to 1907, the building was the United States Custom House.
The National City Bank, now Citibank, moved its headquarters into the building in 1908 after an expansion by McKim, Mead & White that added the second colonnade to the facade. Long after the bank shifted its headquarters to 399 Park Avenue, it kept a branch in the rotunda.
Mr. Kimmel bought the property in 1998 for $27 million and spent more than $80 million to turn the small office building into what Gerard R. Wolfe said was "arguably the most luxurious hotel in the city."
Neither luxury nor glamour came to Mr. Farag's mind when asked to name the most memorable moment of his year-and-a-half stewardship. Instead, he spoke of the day in November that employees learned the hotel would close. He said they applauded when they were told it would "stay a Regent until the last day."
"It's not a building, it's a host," Mr. Farag said as he stood under the great dome while the ballroom shaped up for another dinner. "This building will be a great host for anything in the future."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Regent Wall Street ballroom, where dozens of rescue workers slept after the Sept. 11 attacks. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HISTORY (78%); HIJACKING (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); MAYORS (74%); CELEBRITIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); MISCONDUCT (55%) Terrorism; Hotels and Motels; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Shutdowns (Institutional); Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); CITIBANK AS (57%); JONES GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Regent Wall Street (NYC Hotel)

TICKER: JNY (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) David W Dunlap

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



468 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 46 words

HEADLINE: Corrections 

 BODY:
 An article last Thursday about indications that the New York City economy is recovering referred imprecisely to a figure showing an increase of 11,000 jobs in September and October. It included a seasonal adjustment; the increase was not partly a result of seasonal factors. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (85%) Correction Stories; Labor

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



469 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S NEXT; 
With an Urban Scooter, a Humanoid Robot Hits Its Stride

BYLINE:  By JULIE FLAHERTY

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
IF she could buy a pair of legs for $5,000, Una-May O'Reilly would probably do it. No doubt a nice set of working limbs would help Cardea, the humanoid robot she is building at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, look the part.
 But robotic legs are time-consuming and very expensive to create. It took Honda 16 years to produce its current prototype of Asimo, a 4-foot-tall $1 million robot that can negotiate stairs. 
 "Mobility is really complicated in a humanoid," said Dr. O'Reilly, a research scientist and a principal investigator on the Cardea project, as she lifted her own leg in front of her and tried to balance on one foot. "It becomes an endeavor unto itself." 
So when she and Rodney A. Brooks, director of the M.I.T. computer science and artificial intelligence laboratory, were offered a Segway Human Transporter to serve as Cardea's mode of mobility, they took it. Cardea, named for the Roman goddess of thresholds and hinges, can now roll up to a door, recognize it and open it with its robotic arm. 
It turns out that the Segway Human Transporter, the two-wheeled, motorized, super-balanced scooter designed to whisk people around an urban landscape, may have a second career as a humanoid transporter.
With a footprint about two feet wide, a Segway can navigate through doorways and turn on the spot in hallways. It can go up hills, over bumps and carry hundreds of pounds. 
Most important to the M.I.T. researchers, the Segway's gyroscopic balance system allows Cardea to stand as tall as Dr. O'Reilly without the need for an awkwardly wide base to insure stability. M.I.T.'s goal is to create a robot that can act as a kind of personal assistant, and Cardea's height and maneuverability should help it interact with humans at their level. 
The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or Darpa, a Pentagon agency, purchased 15 modified Segways this summer for robotics labs at M.I.T., Carnegie Mellon, Georgia Tech, Stanford and nine other universities and research centers as part of its broader Mobile Autonomous Robot Software project, aimed at creating robots that can assist military operations without constant human supervision.
"We've had really, really good results with this platform," said Sebastian Thrun, an associate professor of computer science at Stanford in Palo Alto, Calif. Most of the wheeled robots that Mr. Thrun works with have to stay low to the ground, which limits their ability to survey their surroundings. With a taller robot, he can place sensors and cameras in a higher position. 
"It allows us to build relatively complex robots with relatively small footprints that can still see very nicely," he said, adding that the Segway's price tag, about $5,000, makes it an economical choice.
Two days after receiving the platform this summer, the Stanford team had its Segway-robot hybrid navigating between boxes in the hallways. Within a month, the "Segbot" was roaming the campus, using a laser range finder to survey the area and create a three-dimensional map of the grounds. 
At Carnegie Mellon in Pittsburgh, where researchers have taught smaller robots to play soccer, researchers hope to team their Segway robot with Segway-riding humans for a soccer demonstration this summer with the goal of studying their interaction. 
The Segway Robotic Mobility Platform, as it is called, has its quirks. James F. Keller, a project engineer coordinating the Segway research at the University of Pennsylvania, said the platform performed well when tested on varying terrain and could easily travel a country road or go anywhere a wheelchair-bound person might go. But, he added, "it is somewhat prone to falling on its face if it has a problem."
In September Segway recalled its machines because they could lose their balance when their batteries run low, a problem the company is fixing by upgrading the software. But the Segway robots used in the study took most of their tumbles when turning at too high a speed (the Segway can reach about 10 mile per hour), catching air on a bump or accelerating on sandy and slippery roads. At least one team reported a crash that destroyed the hard drive in the onboard laptop.
John Morrell, chief development officer at Segway, said the scooter was a challenge for researchers accustomed to robots with a lower center of gravity. 
"A dynamically stabilized robot can fall down," Mr. Morrell said. "To some extent, that's a new problem to think about."
Indeed, most of the teams, concerned for the delicate equipment they entrust to the platform, were quick to draw up plans for kickstands, bumpers and even air bags that deploy when the robot is in danger of falling or crashing. 
Darpa approached Segway with the platform idea in February; it took a few months for the company to develop a modification kit for its commercial product. Unlike the Segway for humans, which the rider directs by leaning forward or backward, the robotic platform has its movements controlled by a computer program. The handle bars are tucked out of the way, and there is a shelf that holds sensors, cameras, robotic arms and anything else the researchers devise. 
As a company, Segway has not hung out its shingle as a robo-parts supplier, but Mr. Morrell said he has gotten calls from robotics labs interested in obtaining their own Segway platforms. Any new sales are bound to be welcome because Segway has sold only 6,000 or so of its human transporters. 
Meanwhile, M.I.T. has a long way to go before Cardea can act as a true personal assistant. The robot spends much of its time in pieces as 11 researchers work on its various systems. (Facing the first deadline to show Darpa a functioning robot, the M.I.T. team rushed a bit and now has to clean up some of its mess.)
Cardea's one arm ends in a stump, and its head is a faceless camera. But there are plans to add more sensors, an improved vision system, two more arms and an expressive head. Eventually, researchers hope Cardea will be able to take instructions and cues from the people it encounters, and learn about its environment by handling objects. Earlier M.I.T. robots did somewhat similar things, with one difference -- they couldn't scoot around and explore on their own. 
"Our humanoid robots had never moved," Dr. O'Reilly said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: CREATIVE -- Una-May O'Reilly, an M.I.T. scientist, with Cardea, a robot built on the frame of a Segway scooter. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCYCLES (90%); ROBOTICS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (89%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); CITY LIFE (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (60%) United States Armament and Defense; Computer Software; Computers and the Internet; Robots; Segway Human Transporter; Gyroscopes; Research; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%); DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (59%) Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency

PERSON: Julie Flaherty

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



470 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Revenue Up, But Mayor Urges Cuts In Spending 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON and MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg urged his senior staff yesterday to continue to push for ways to cut spending, warning that the city must remain fiscally vigilant despite signs that the city economy is improving.
 The plea for fiscal restraint, made by the mayor in a meeting with city department heads at Gracie Mansion, came even as four separate budget monitoring agencies are estimating that city tax revenues are surging faster than the Bloomberg administration recently estimated. 
 Reports by the state and city comptrollers, the New York City Independent Budget Office and the Financial Control Board put tax revenues ahead by $75 million to $320 million. Two of these reports have been issued and the others which will be released in the next week. 
These estimates are on top of a $575 million jump in tax revenues that Mayor Bloomberg said he anticipated for this fiscal year.
There is little risk that the city will end this fiscal year with a deficit, especially with the higher revenues, which reflect greater than expected receipts from city business, real estate and personal income taxes.
But both Mr. Bloomberg and the fiscal monitors are cautioning that the rise in revenues is far from enough to erase a deficit that is projected for the fiscal year that starts next July. Current estimates of the shortfall on next year's projected $47 billion budget range from $1.7 billion to $2.6 billion, even with the extra tax revenues. 
The mayor backed up his cautionary remarks yesterday to his agency heads with a letter, sent out by his budget director, asking city departments to once again scour their spending plans to look for possible cuts.
"The growth in mandated fixed costs, primarily pensions, health benefits, debt service and Medicaid, outstrips revenue growth," the letter from the Office of Management and Budget said.
The rosier tax projections by the fiscal monitors represent a return to a pattern seen during the Giuliani administration, when the mayor's office traditionally underestimated tax revenues as part of an effort to curb city spending and ensure a good-size annual surplus to help take care of future needs. During the recession, the city lost so many jobs that the Bloomberg administration's revenue estimates at times proved to be too optimistic.
"The city genuinely is not in the clear yet," said Ronnie Lowenstein, director of the Independent Budget Office, which is scheduled to release its budget report today. The report estimates revenues will be $321 million higher this fiscal year than the mayor has projected. "And the most significant part of the problem is outside the city's short-term control, and it is not clear how they are going to deal with that."
At a minimum, the new revenue estimates demonstrate that Mr. Bloomberg is now in charge of a city that is in much better shape fiscally than when he first came into office, and faced an estimated budget gap of more than $6 billion.
"The budget gaps are still large," said Jeffrey Sommer, acting executive director of the Financial Control Board, which was established by the state after the 1970's fiscal crisis. "But as long as the city does what it has done in the past -- by increasing revenue or decreasing spending -- there should not have to be drastic reductions in services or a midyear crisis to ensure budget balance, like happened last year." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MEDICAID (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%) Taxation

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Eric Lipton; Michael Cooper; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



471 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Farm Leaders, Visiting Cuba, Seek End to Trade Curbs 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: HAVANA, Dec. 17 

 BODY:
American farm leaders called for an end to the United States trade embargo with Cuba during talks on Wednesday that have resulted in nearly $110 million in new food sales to the island.
 Interest by American food companies in doing business in Cuba has grown even as the United States government tightens restrictions, including stepped-up enforcement of rules on American travel. 
 "Ending the embargo is the right thing to do," Iowa's agriculture secretary, Patty Judge, told a news conference. She said American restrictions on travel to Cuba by most Americans should also be eliminated. 
"When Americans can finally come to Cuba on vacation, they might want steak, and we hope that steak is sourced from Iowa," she said. "We see white tablecloth opportunities for our products here."
Representing 147 agribusinesses, port authorities, supermarkets and other enterprises, the Americans came here for talks on the second anniversary of the first American commercial food shipments to post-revolutionary Cuba.
That first shipment, $300,000 worth of chicken parts, sailed into Havana Bay from Gulfport, Miss., on Dec. 16, 2001.
Since then Cuba has contracted to buy more than $500 million in goods on a cash basis, Cuban officials said. An exception to United States trade sanctions against the island allows the direct commercial sales of agricultural goods but prohibits American financing for the transactions.
Negotiations for more sales continued Wednesday, and Cuban officials reported coming close to their goal of $130 million in new contracts.
Alabama's agriculture commissioner, Ron Sparks, said he hoped business relationships being formed between American farm representatives and Cuban officials would survive the rocky relations between the governments.
The countries have not had diplomatic ties for more than four decades.
"There could be policy set tomorrow that could take away the little trade we have now," Mr. Sparks said.
"But it cannot take away the relationships I've made with the Cuban people."
On Tuesday night, flamenco dancers clapped and stomped and waiters served steak with California wine as Fidel Castro invited the 250 American farm representatives to a formal dinner that stretched into early Wednesday.
Mr. Castro wore a dark suit during the Tuesday night dinner at Revolution Palace, where he has his offices and entertains visiting dignitaries, Americans here for the talks said.
The dinner, which ended about 3 a.m. Wednesday, was the most elaborate in a string of meetings Mr. Castro has held with the American visitors since talks began Monday.
Several representatives of American companies said here they hoped eventually to invest in the island -- something prohibited by trade sanctions imposed in 1960 by the Eisenhower administration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); AGRICULTURE (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); PORT AUTHORITIES (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (55%); ANNIVERSARIES (53%); DANCERS (50%) Agriculture; International Trade and World Market; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Food

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (79%) Fidel (Pres) Castro

GEOGRAPHIC: GULFPORT, MS, USA (55%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%) Cuba

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003 



472 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1766 words

HEADLINE: JOURNEYS; 
Mining the Gold In Gay Nuptials

BYLINE:  By SARAH ROBERTSON 

 BODY:
THERE may be plenty of people excited about the prospect of legalized gay marriage in Massachusetts, but Canadian tourism officials are probably not among them. That is because the provinces of Ontario and British Columbia, where same-sex marriage has been legal since the summer, have been doing brisk business, attracting gays and lesbians from the United States who want to tie the knot. 
 In the last year, eight same-sex wedding specialists, handling everything from finding venues to providing officiants, have set up shop in Vancouver, British Columbia. Many of the lesbian-and-gay-friendly bed-and-breakfasts in Toronto have seen a rise in business this year -- they say it's up about 15 percent -- which they attribute to couples from the United States going north because of the new laws. 
 Gloucester Square Inns in Toronto, which offers three-day gay wedding packages from $725 to $3,260 (all prices are in United States dollars), has organized 24 same-sex ceremonies and has 12 more reservations for April alone. "We've never had bookings this far ahead," Ric Tremaine, the owner, said. In Winnepeg, Manitoba, Pride Bride has helped plan 300 weddings -- providing everything from a same-sex cowboy wedding-cake topper to rainbow-striped vests for the bridegrooms -- and Pride Marriage Services in Vancouver is promoting honeymoon vacations in British Columbia to places like the Okanagan Valley wine region and Whistler, a ski resort. Wedding Fairy, a Vancouver planner with three weddings scheduled for January, charges $200 and will arrange accommodations for guests, transport throughout the city and receptions in places like the penthouse of Le Soleil, a popular boutique hotel. 
Some larger hotels are getting in on the trend, too. The Westin Resort and Spa in Whistler is marketing a Honeymoon in the Mountains package (it starts at $455 a night and includes Champagne and chocolate-covered strawberries) to gay-focused travel agents and Web sites. The Coast Plaza Hotel and Suites at Stanley Park in Vancouver is promoting its indoor garden lobby and rooftop for same-sex ceremonies; there were three last summer and there are bookings already for next summer. (The typical cost of a garden wedding for 100, including a buffet dinner and wine, is $3,700.) 
The popularity of the gay wedding business has not been lost on the Massachusetts tourist industry. Travel experts say the state's gay-related tourism business could receive a huge lift in the wake of the state Supreme Judicial Court's ruling on Nov. 18, which stated that the State Legislature had 180 days to rewrite Massachusetts marriage laws to include same-sex couples. 
Already, bed-and-breakfasts in Provincetown, the popular gay resort town on Cape Cod, have begun to advertise special wedding packages for the coming spring and summer, anticipating that the revised law will be in effect by then. The Fairbanks Inn, a converted 18th-century sea captain's house with 14 guest rooms, is offering seven such packages, ranging from a $195 a night "Pop the Question" option with free Champagne in the room to a "Saturday Night Fever" extravaganza with a ceremony and a reception at a dance club. "I think it could be the biggest boom ever imaginable," said Lynette Molnar, an owner of the inn. 
"Businesses are aware of the potential impact," said Rob Tosner, the head of the Provincetown Business Guild, which will be holding seminars for local businesses about the marriage market and wedding ceremonies. "We want to have all our ducks in a row." He estimated that gay-marriage-related travel could push business up as much as 50 percent in Provincetown, especially in the fall and spring.
Meanwhile, Olivia, a self-described "lifestyle company that connects, transforms and celebrates the lives of lesbians," is organizing a weeklong cruise in July from Boston to Montreal that, in addition to featuring two concert performances by the singer K. D. Lang, will begin with marriage ceremonies in Boston for any of the expected 1,200 passengers who want to kick off their trip by getting married. 
Same-sex marriage ceremonies are such a potentially significant part of the gay travel industry that Out & About, a prominent newsletter for gay and lesbian travelers, is devoting part of its January issue to the topic. 
THE growing cottage industry comes at an especially critical time for Canada's travel market. With business hit hard this year by the SARS scare and the weak economy, hotels and planners are hoping that the wedding packages will get people traveling north of the border again. Indeed, spending on same-sex marriage travel could add as much as $1 billion to the slumping Canadian travel industry over the next three years, according to Community Marketing Inc. and Travel Alternatives Group, a San Francisco-based consulting firm. Margot Booth, a spokeswoman for the Tourism Industry Association of Canada, said: "Gay tourism is a very well-heeled market, and it's growing. There is a lot of money to be made there." 
If Kevin Kailey is any indication, Ms. Booth is right. When Mr. Kailey, a 43-year-old travel agent based in Palm Springs, Calif., decided to get married last summer, he spared no expense. He and his partner, Roland Maynez, joined three other male couples who all said "I do" under a gazebo in Victoria, British Columbia, serenaded by a string quartet and a bagpipe. For the feast afterward, they hired a harpist to entertain. With a wedding entourage of 50 friends and family members, Mr. Kailey estimated that the group spent $20,000 in Canada. "I can't tell you what an experience it was," said Mr. Kailey, who spent his honeymoon on a luxury cruise in Alaska. "It was so fabulous." 
In fact, it was so fabulous that he is now adding special wedding packages to his agency's travel offerings. Next summer, he will introduce a luxury Alaska cruise package, with an option to stop in Vancouver to get married, and a Vancouver wedding weekend special, including a customized ceremony, accommodations and airline tickets. 
Darren Frei and Ken Martinez were not planning to have a big ceremony when they headed to Toronto from their home in Los Angeles; a quick trip to City Hall was all they had in mind. In fact, they had turned down the offer of a $725 wedding package when they booked their room at Gloucester Square. But when they arrived on Thursday afternoon, they walked in on the end of a same-sex wedding ceremony and changed their minds. "We got there and decided, 'Why not go for it,' " said Mr. Frei, a 28-year-old writer. Soon they had signed up for the complete package -- a formal ceremony, flowers, a wedding cake, a photographer and even a bachelor party the night before. "It was a fairy tale wedding," Mr. Frei said. "Everything was taken care of." 
Still, not everyone sees a pot of gold at the end of the same-sex aisle. The number of couples from the United States who have gone to Canada to get married is still relatively small -- 356 in Toronto (through Dec. 16) and 729 in British Columbia (through the end of November), according to government records. And because same-sex marriage remains a sensitive political issue, some hotels are reluctant to aggressively reach out to the market. "If your normal client is a 50-plus heterosexual male, you have to be careful," said Shane Wagg, the president of Wilde Marketing, a Toronto-based gay marketing firm. "You don't want to cross the integrity of your core offering." 
Moreover, many same-sex marriages have been quiet celebrations, often with no one attending but the partners themselves. After same-sex marriage was legalized in Canada, there was a rush of interest from florists, high-end hotels and bed-and-breakfasts. But, "it's been disappointing to some," said Mr. Tremaine of Gloucester Square in Toronto, who also heads the Gay Toronto Tourism Guild. Same-sex marriages are "very different ceremonies, with different structures."
"There's not an extravagant amount of money, for example, spent on flowers," he said. In many cases, he added, couples will choose a small, simple service in Canada and then have a larger reception when they return to the United States. 
But fans say the gay-marriage travel industry is taking off for a simple reason: planners take the hassle and confusion out of planning a wedding in a foreign city with new marriage laws. A Seattle couple, Curtis Crawford, a photographer, and Kevin Chestnut, a software executive, paid $500 for a wedding planner to organize a marriage commissioner, flowers, a cake and a restaurant for their wedding-day dinner in Vancouver in late October. The planner left detailed maps, suggestions for where to buy wedding rings and recommendations for vegetarian delis, because the men don't eat meat. "We didn't have to do anything but participate," Mr. Crawford, 42, said. "They did a great job going behind the scenes and making sure everything was just right." 

IF YOU GO
Heading North To Tie the Knot
WANT to go to Canada to be married this weekend? You're probably too late to do it in Toronto, as the offices that issue marriage licenses (for both same-sex and opposite-sex couples) are only open on weekdays and close at 4:15 p.m. today. You might have more luck in British Columbia, where there are a number of places, like Coast Capital Insurance in Richmond, that will issue a marriage license on a Saturday. A complete list of places that issue marriage licenses can be found at www.vs.gov.bc.ca/marriage/index.html.
There are some decent fares available on flights from New York to Vancouver this weekend, with round-trip fares in the range of $450 to $500, according to a search on Expedia yesterday afternoon. If you want to go Toronto next weekend, a check on Expedia shows round-trip fares on a direct flight will run about $390 a person. Be sure to take your passport, a second form of photo identification and 110 dollars in Canadian currency.
In Ontario, if you have been divorced outside Canada, you need to obtain a legal opinon from an Ontario lawyer stating that the divorce or annullment should be recognized by the province. That letter, along with the marriage license, the divorce papers and a province-issued form are all required for approval by the Registrar General -- a process that could take up to a month. All the paperwork should also be taken with you.
In both British Columbia and Ontario, licenses are good for three months, and residency and blood tests are not required.
Most of the wedding planners mentioned in the accompanying article can arrange a celebrant, music, cake, flowers and a photographer within 24 hours.

GRAPHIC: Photos: THEY DO -- Darren Frei, left, and Ken Martinez at their wedding, with the Rev. Mary K. Joseph. (pg. F2); HIS AND HIS -- At the Ken Martinez-Darren Frei wedding. (pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (94%); MARRIAGE (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); RESORTS (89%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); TOURISM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); WEDDING & NEWLYWEDS MARKET (76%); TRENDS (75%); TRAVEL AGENTS (72%); WINE (69%); MOUNTAINS (69%); SKIING (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); SUPREME COURTS (60%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HOMOSEXUALITY; HOTELS AND MOTELS; BED-AND-BREAKFAST LODGINGS; MARRIAGES 

PERSON: ROBERTSON, SARAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); MANITOBA, CANADA (58%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) BRITISH COLUMBIA (CANADA); CANADA; ONTARIO (CANADA); VANCOUVER (BRITISH COLUMBIA); TORONTO (ONTARIO)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



473 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: PHOTOGRAPHY REVIEW; 
Cameras as Accomplices, Helping Race Divide America Against Itself

BYLINE:  By HOLLAND COTTER 

 BODY:
The problem of "the color line" was the American problem of the 20th century, according to W. E. B. DuBois. It is still a problem in the early 21st century, though few people are saying this in so many words. The International Center of Photography is saying it, with almost no words at all, in "Only Skin Deep: Changing Visions of the American Self," a big, unwieldy group exhibition that has rumbled in just under the 2003 wire and turns out to be one of the most ambitious and stimulating shows of the year.
 It is also one of the more confounding and confusing shows, though it manages to make good use of these liabilities. It fills every square inch of gallery space with more than 300 pictures, from pre-Civil War daguerreotypes to Hollywood film stills to digital pieces hot off the laptop. Together they address a subject is at once oceanic and amorphous: "American identity," which in this case encompasses ethnicity and sexuality, but primarily race. 
 The show proposes that race, far from being a biological fact, is a value-laden social concept, a fiction that many find useful. It argues that this concept permits a certain group of people to control other groups by establishing a system of hierarchical ranking and sustaining that ranking through physical and psychological force. Photography, a medium with built-in allure and an undeserved reputation for truth-telling, has done much, the exhibition suggests, to create and perpetuate this whole fiction. 
This idea isn't new. It fueled contemporary American art and cultural thinking in the 1990's and earlier. But the full implication of photography's role -- active and passive, overt and covert -- in American racial politics has not been considered before on this scale. And the survey is usefully timed. It comes at a moment when the progressive thinking of the 1990's is out of fashion in the art world and ritually trashed there. 
Not that "Only Skin Deep" is narrowly political, or narrowly anything. Within the critical position it stakes out, it's all over the place. The curators -- Brian Wallis, director of exhibitions and chief curator at the center, and Coco Fusco, an artist, critic and associate professor of art at Columbia -- culled their material from many sources: American history, art, science, sociology, pop culture, psychology and personal narrative. They then seem to have given the whole package a vigorous shake and poured out the contents, letting it find its shape. And as if to insure that everything would stay fluid and unschematic, they installed the pictures without adding interpretation to the labels.
This is O.K. when the images are familiar or fairly legible, but frustrating when they are historically specific, or ambiguous, or arcane in meaning, as many are. On the plus side, data deprivation leaves you in an interesting state of innocence. In trying to puzzle out individual pictures and connect the dots within groupings, you quickly learn something about your own perceptual programming, and a lot about the slippery nature of photography itself.
If the experience initially leaves you feeling unmoored, I recommend just going with the tide. And in fact, you will probably need little encouragement to do so, given the wealth of visual data on tap, which includes work by some of the best young American artists in the business; it is augmented by a Web site that is an integral part of the show: www.icp.org/exhibitions/onlyskindeep. 
In the galleries, the exhibition breaks down into thematic sections identified by knotty short statements. The first, "Looking Up/Looking Down," gives a sense of the curatorial style. The argument here revolves around photography's role in recording and reinforcing racial hierarchies. In a portrait titled "General Williams With Servant" (1862), the dynamics are straightforward. The general sits in a chair; his African-American servant sits on a low stool. It's clear who the boss is.
The power relationship in Ken Light's 1994 "Strip Search, Shakedown Room of Visiting Area" from his "Texas Death Row" series is more charged. A young black man is undressing under the eyes of two armed white guards. All three men could be from the same economic background. But about the black man we know nothing. Is he a visitor or a prisoner? Is the search routine, or punitive? Almost naked, seen from behind, he could be taken for a victim or a felon, or both, depending on who is looking.
Racial stereotypes, as a form of social control, also come under scrutiny. Some are blunt. A page from a 1941 issue of Life magazine carries photographs of two Asian men and the words "How to Tell Japs From the Chinese." With its diagrammatic annotations, this is a cartoon version of ethnology. And ethnology itself is cartoonlike in a 1904 picture titled "The Missing Link No. 1 (Photograph of Indigenous Filipino From St. Louis Fair)," which effectively classifies its male subject as subhuman.
Identity-conscious contemporary art functions, in part, as a response to such images, a short-circuiting of their negative pull. Pictures of slaves that were used by the scientist Louis Agassiz to support a racist theory of social Darwinism take on an entirely different meaning when incorporated into a text and photo piece by Carrie May Weems titled "From Here I Saw What Happened and I Cried."
And social Darwinism, which is by no means extinct, is shot down in a 1995 sequence of pictures by Miguel Calderon, in which the artist, wearing a spectacular Afro wig, poses nude in a simian crouch on the left, then gradually evolves into a Homo erectus homeboy toting an Uzi.
The other sections are similarly impressionistic and porous. One on the theme of assimilation overlaps with another, in galleries downstairs, that plays with the theme of the "ideal" American. Both, through archival pictures, examine visual indicators of racial identity, whether fixed, as in skin color; chosen, as in "native" costumes; or determinable by context, as in a picture of children of slaves who are, so to speak, socially black but look white.
The contemporary artists here take the confusion inherent in such distinctions as their subject. Cindy Sherman, in a set of pre-"Film Stills" pictures, appears in blackface. Lyle Ashton Harris, who is black, wears whiteface and changes sex, introducing another aspect of identity explored elsewhere in the show. Glenn Ligon finesses the game of identification and evaluation by racial signs in a two-panel piece. One panel is titled "Self-Portrait Exaggerating My Black Features," the other "Self-Portrait Exaggerating My White Features"; the same likeness of Mr. Ligon is on both.
Further on come reminders of how fateful the perception of racial difference can be. Pictures of Manzanar, a California internment camp where Japanese-Americans were confined during World War II, are among them. The inmates tried to lead normal lives there, as is evident in the pages of the camp's high school yearbook and in a photo of young girls playing with dolls. But an interactive DVD by Rea Tajiri, based on her family's Mazanar experience, projects an air of grim claustrophobia.
And in some cases the photographic record is just brutal. This is nowhere truer than in Ernest C. Withers's 1955 images of the mutilated body of Emmett Till, a black adolescent killed for supposedly whistling at a white woman. In Mr. Withers's pictures, published in Jet magazine, his face is a pulp of white matter, its features obliterated.
These pictures are often reproduced; we know their story. Other, less fearsome photographs are far less accessible. What, for instance, can we make of a 1845 daguerreotype titled "The Branded Hand of Captain Jonathan Walker, Boston, Mass."? The brand suggests an association with slavery, though Walker's status or racial identity can't be determined visually. There is no way to know that he was a white abolitionist who tried to free a group of American slaves, for which he was arrested, put in solitary confinement for a year and had his palm branded with the letters "s.s." for "slave stealer."
It is unfortunate that information like this isn't available somewhere. The catalog, a hefty collection of essays, makes scant reference to individual images. The Web site would be a logical place, but no. So the Walker picture becomes one more floating component in an idiosyncratic, curator's-choice show that is also a collection of smaller shows that come in and out of focus as you look.
Any one of them would probably have made for more incisive viewing. But I was glad for the epic sweep that Ms. Fusco and Mr. Wallis decided on, with its perceptual workouts and its unrosy picture of an America prickly with cultural variety and fraught with power struggles.
Biologically groundless as it may be, race remains a hard, unbenign, unbudgeable fact of American life. And so it will likely remain so long as politicians get mileage from it, the entertainment industry makes money from it, and new art, including photography, retreats from addressing it. With its brand of intensely jumbled dispassion, "Only Skin Deep" touches at least a little on all of this. It lets the complications roll, in a way that can make you crazy, but also makes sense. It takes the problem of the color line and, in a large way, reasserts its reality and its centrality at the beginning of this century. In doing so, a wildly difficult show becomes an important one. 

"Only Skin Deep: Changing Visions of the American Self" is at the International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 857-0000, through Feb. 29. It then travels to the Seattle Art Museum and will be on view there March 25 to June 13.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, Japanese-American children at the Manzanar internment camp in California in World War II. Below left, "Self-Portrait Exaggerating My Black Features/Self-Portrait Exaggerating My White Features" by Glenn Ligon. (Photo by Toyo Miyatake/Toyo Miyatake Collection); (Photo by Glenn Ligon/Norton Family Collection) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); HISTORY (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); ETHNICITY (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); WORLD WAR II (68%); FILM (68%); POLITICS (67%) PHOTOGRAPHY; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (59%); THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (58%) INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (NYC) 

PERSON: COTTER, HOLLAND 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



474 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2350 words

HEADLINE: Child's Play: Grade-School Grandmasters Square Off 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT ANDREW POWELL 

DATELINE: ROSEMONT, Ill. 

 BODY:
CHRISTOPHER HEUNG arrives a marked boy. Not that he seems aware of it. As he nibbles on the oversize chocolate chip cookie he has started his dinner with, he exhibits no concern about defending his back-to-back national chess championships. 
 Auburn crumbs accumulate on his black turtleneck. His legs dangle over the edge of his chair, his feet not yet able to reach the carpet. Christopher won the National Scholastic K-12/Collegiate championship as a first grader and again last year as a second grader. Now, having come to this suburban satellite of Chicago's O'Hare airport this past weekend to play for the third-grade title, Christopher arrives as the top-ranked 8-year-old chess player in America. 
 Does he have a strategy for the tournament? No, he responds with a giggle, his rising cheeks lifting his round glasses and curving his eyes into crescents. Questions about expectations and nerves are brushed off with more laughter. When the name of his main rival, Ray Robson, is raised, Christopher blithely leaps from his seat in search of watermelon from the hotel restaurant's buffet. 
"I'm worried but he's not," says his mother, Rita Heung, twirling a tight ball of spaghetti onto a fork. "At this age level the kids don't feel the pressure, they're just playing. The parents, they feel it."
Mrs. Heung is one of thousands of parents devoting their weekends to their children's emerging interests. "Children take over your life," said Steven Finney, a chess father here with his son, Stuart. The demands increase when the talent emerges. Stuart Finney is a forward on his soccer team and can play Haydn on the piano with his eyes closed. But those avocations have been eclipsed by chess, a game in which he shows such aptitude -- Stuart is currently the fifth-ranked 8-year-old in America -- that his father feels a responsibility to shepherd him to tournaments every month, take him to chess club on other weekends, buy him more than 30 chess primers, and pay $50 an hour for weekly chess lessons. 
All over the United States, in places best known for baseball and soccer, the newest state champs aren't guzzling Gatorade and tying cleats. They are hunched over tables in hotels and convention centers, concentrating intently as they compete for trophies. Many of the contestants are kindergartners. They can barely tie their shoes, but they know how to score with sophisticated moves like castling and double pawning.
This year's scholastic chess national championships, where young players compete at grade level, held last Friday through Sunday at the Hyatt Regency O'Hare, attracted close to 2,000 entrants, most of them young boys. Tournament organizers were hoping for another thousand participants, but the weak economy has narrowed the pool of parents willing to pay for hotel rooms, meals and airfare, not to mention tournament entrance fees. Mrs. Heung, a stay-at-home mother married to a civil engineer, feels the expense is justified by her son's ability. 
"It's a sacrifice," she said, estimating she spends about $10,000 a year on chess for her son, a sum that the family struggles to afford. "But he loves to play, he's so good at it, and someday he'll be able to look back and tell his grandchildren he was the best chess player in the country." 
To continue as national champion, Christopher, from Boca Raton, Fla., will have to get past Ray Robson, a 9-year-old third grader, also from Florida. Chess ratings are roughly similar to golf handicaps. Ray's rating of 1795 is more than 200 points higher than Christopher's, a significant gap. 
At last year's championships in Atlanta, luck of the draw kept the two boys from playing each other, allowing Christopher to slip past Ray in the final round. On the drive home from Atlanta, Ray and his father resolved to defeat Christopher at this year's tournament. Ray has read one book by a chess master every day for the last year. He's sharpened his skills in countless tournaments against tough adult competition. 
While Ray's rating has climbed high enough to induce apnea, Christopher's rating is also surging. Just one weekend before the nationals, Christopher won the Palm Beach County District scholastic championship. 
"I've seen games where he's dropped his rook in, like, six moves," Christopher says of Ray between bites of melon. "So it's not like he's invincible or anything like that. He makes mistakes." 
THE tournament opens just after lunch on Friday. Boys from kindergarten through college cruise the lobby in heavy parkas, rolled-up vinyl chess boards poking out of their backpacks. Chess dads sit with their sons at tables along the side of the towering hotel atrium, tapping timekeepers and talking over their openings and endgames. Downstairs, a grandmaster from Russia plays out an exhibition, besting 50 contestants at once.
At 1 p.m. everyone parades through a maze of skywalks to the convention center next door, where the games are to be played. Twenty-five rows of folding conference tables are covered in teal and gray cloths, with more than 1,000 vinyl boards and the appropriate number of plastic pieces set up, 14 boards to a table. Players sit shoulder to shoulder at tables arranged by grade. Ray Robson heads the third-grade table, at the first board. Christopher, next to Ray on Board 2, draws an opponent from Colorado with a rating an enormous 600 points below his.
Parents spill around the room, sitting on the cold concrete floor and reading "The Da Vinci Code" while guarding colorful plastic knapsacks. The Florida contingent gathers in a pack within eyesight of its sons. Although New York City remains the epicenter of chess in America, players from Florida are increasingly successful at the scholastic level. The theme parks of Orlando are frequently hosts to tournaments, regularly exposing players to quality competition within driving distance. 
When play starts, a hush falls over the room. Parental chitchat is muted by the cavernous space. The dominant sound is the whir of fans and the soft slap of sneakers on concrete as boys speedwalk to the restrooms. Only players are allowed in the bathrooms, lest a parent pass along advice. At one recent tournament in Florida, a player who claimed an active bladder was actually meeting with his coach, who was suggesting moves. 
Christopher periodically rises to his knees to get an overhead view of the board, a tip he picked up from his chess coach. Between turns he looks around the room absently, smiling at his mother or checking out the play on Ray's board. 
Tournament directors in red vests control the floor, pushing back curious parents. If a child raises his hand, the director will walk over to confirm the win or to examine an alleged illegal move. At the younger levels, the most stubborn children sometimes argue that they haven't lost when they clearly have.
Christopher wins easily. In the second round, held only a couple of hours after the first game ended, he crushes a high-rated opponent from Massachusetts. Ray wins, too. Christopher joins a contest of tag that has broken out near his mother. He requests Chicago-style deep-dish pizza for dinner and asks if it's O.K. now to play Pokemon on his Game Boy. 
"He still runs around, and I like to see it," Mrs. Heung says as she tracks Christopher's whereabouts. "Playing chess they concentrate so hard, but when they hand in all their scores, I like to see them run around. I know they're still kids." 
THREE games are scheduled for Saturday. The first one starts at 10 a.m. When the games begin, the parents of older players retreat to the hotel pool and gym, relieved that a cellphone is all the supervision their children need. In a makeshift chess marketplace, vendors sell software tutorials, along with timers, boards and commemorative T-shirts. A novelty chess set features plastic Coca-Cola bottles for pawns. Another set is a Subway Series between the Mets and the Yankees.
Joan DuBois is at the cash register. She is one of the six directors of the U.S. Chess Federation, an organization she has been with for more than three decades, and which she has seen grown to about 90,000 members, half under the age of 19. "Fifteen to 20 years ago, we had maybe 60,000 members, of which maybe 5,000 were kids," she said. "I mean, they have taken over our membership." 
By the second game of the day, parental fatigue sets in. The tournament's tight schedule leaves no time to explore the Chicago Art Institute or the Field Museum or even to go Christmas shopping. Repeated meals at the same hotel restaurant lose their appeal fast. 
"You don't enjoy a weekend like this," Mrs. Heung offers, standing outside the hall as her son plays a boy from Orlando. "It's just what you have to do. If he weren't so good I wouldn't be here. But he is good and so I am here."
Christopher has always liked to play games. He happily passes afternoons clicking his mouse while he plays Risk on a computer. When his father, Wing Heung, introduced him to chess four years ago, Christopher jettisoned interests in tennis, soccer and swimming to concentrate on improving his game. To pay for travel and tournaments, the Heungs cut back on other expenses. Their small house has almost no furniture to obscure the cache of Christopher's trophies. To save money, Mrs. Heung took a taxi to the hotel from the airport instead of renting a car. The costs are something Mrs. Heung feels she has no choice but to bear.
"The first year, we were debating whether or not to go to nationals," she recalled. "It's his birthday in January. He told us he'd give up his birthday presents and his Christmas presents to play in the tournament. We had to respond to that kind of interest." 
Christopher and Ray both win again. Stuart Finney, a classmate of Christopher's at Water's Edge Elementary in Boca Raton, lost to Hugo Kitano, a Californian. As he leaves the hall, Stuart reaches up for his father's hand, saying nothing until he's halfway back to the hotel. Once in the room, Stuart calls his mother, crying as he tells her what happened. When Stuart hangs up, his father plays around on the bed with him for half an hour, enough time to remove the sting from the loss.
ON Sunday morning contestants huddle around a bulletin board at the tournament hall, waiting to see whom they will face. A high-pitched cheer rises when an official pins the pairings to the board. What had long been anticipated is now reality: Christopher and Ray are playing each other on Board 1. 
Before taking his plastic chair, Christopher affirms his fearlessness.
"Almost every kid works hard at it out here," he says. "They know their parents are using a plane ticket to take them all this way. But when I play I don't feel pressure. Maybe every once in a while if I'm unsure of a move I might feel a little bit, but notlike trembling all over or anything." 
After the first round, parents are barred from the hall for the first 30 minutes of every game. As in any youth activity, parents can be a distracting presence. Some players respond to parental stress by vomiting on their chess pieces. At a recent tournament, a kindergartner facing defeat offered his opponent $3 for a draw. 
The parents gather behind a blue curtain near the doors to the hall. Many of them find the waiting so stressful they can't read the novels they hold in their hands. Mothers and fathers glance at every child who walks out of the hall to see if it's theirs. Some children cry. Others bounce with delight. 
"A full day of waiting leaves me more tired than running a marathon, and I've done both," said Barbara Silberman of Miami, the mother of an 8-year-old named Sam. After 30 minutes, the parents are let back into the hall, but only as far as a line of barricades that keep them out of earshot of their children, frustrating attempts to analyze attacks and defenses. 
From the opening, Ray is a rock. He stares at the board, grinding through options. Systematically, he considers every opportunity, extrapolating his choices 15 to 20 moves into the future. It can take him a precious 40 minutes to make up his mind -- players are allotted only 90 minutes apiece for the entire game -- but once he's decided, the game often plays out quickly.
Between moves, Ray takes bathroom breaks, his eyes on his feet, his mind clearly on the game. Christopher paces the rows, checking out other games and glancing around for his mother, who, allowed now back in the hall, remains hidden in a corner far from the board. The separation is nerve-racking, but necessary. "You want to tell him to move, move, you're low on time!" she says. "You find yourself questioning his choices, and sometimes your facial expression disturbs him. It's better I stay over here." 
At close to two hours in, most of the contestants have returned to the hotel for brunch or a splash in the pool. Suddenly Ray stands, a dominant position that signals to his father and Mrs. Heung that victory is imminent. A minute later his hand shoots up. Christopher's hand does not. After an official walks over to certify the result, Ray goes to hug his parents, who are already celebrating the win by hugging each other. He flashes a smile that reveals a missing tooth. "We worked hard for this," his father, Gary Robson, says, tears welling in his eyes. "I just get so excited seeing someone I love and am proud of doing so well. I can't think of a better way to spend a weekend."
Ray is asked how it feels to win a national championship for the first time. "I don't know," he says in a voice so high and soft it's almost a chirp. "It feels good? It feels good." 
Across the hall, Mrs. Heung wraps Christopher in a hug. He is silent and his head is down, his string of national titles broken. Yet by the time he leaves the hall the game seems out of his mind. On the march back to the hotel he repeatedly tosses his sweatshirt in the air. 
When he looks out a window and sees a dusting of white on the ground, he reminds his mother of her promise to let him play outside when the tournament is over. For an 8-year-old from Florida, a national championship is secondary to a chance to play in the snow.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 26, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Friday about the National Scholastic K-12/Collegiate Chess Championships referred incorrectly to two components of the game. Castling is not considered a sophisticated move; double pawning is not a move but a situation in which two pawns of the same color become lined up vertically on the chessboard.

GRAPHIC: Photos: I WON! -- Maybe. A hand goes up, right, to call a tournament director for arbitration. Left, Stuart Finney gets encouragement on the competition floor from his father, Steven. Below, Christopher Heung, second from left, has a time out with a Game Boy. "I know they're still kids," says Christopher's mother, Rita Heung.; THEY'LL BE WATCHING YOU -- Parents behind a barrier at the National Scholastic K-12/Collegiate Chess Championships, above. Right, contenders concentrate on the game. Below, Christopher Heung, left, who was a front-runner among the third graders before the competition, played in a precontest warm-up. He came in second.; WINNER -- Ray Robson, the top third grader, with his parents.; RIVALS -- Ray, left, with Christopher Heung, the runner-up. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. F3); ENDGAME -- Nearly 2,000 contestants, nervous parents in tow, attended last week's National Scholastic K-12/Collegiate Chess Championships. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); BOARD GAMES (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SOCCER (77%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%); BASEBALL (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); RANKINGS (69%) CHESS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

PERSON: HUENG, CHRISTOPHER; ROBSON, RAY; POWELL, ROBERT ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) ROSEMONT (ILL); 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



475 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Sharon's Limited Vision 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel did little to advance the cause of Middle East peace yesterday when he warned the Palestinians that if they did not move to uphold their end of an agreement soon, Israel would act unilaterally. He is right that the Palestinian Authority is required, under the American-sponsored peace plan known as the road map, to dismantle terrorist networks, and has failed to do so. But he is wrong that the plan views that step as a precondition to Israel taking its own painful steps, namely the freezing of Jewish settlement in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and an end to confiscation and demolition of Palestinian homes and property. The sides are to act simultaneously. 
 Mr. Sharon did make a bit of history in the speech, which comes at a time of soul-searching within his party due to growing public impatience with violence and hard economic times. He said that any unilateral moves by Israel would include moving some settlements "to reduce as much as possible the number of Israelis located in the heart of the Palestinian population." This is the first time that the leader of the conservative Likud Party has promised to remove Jewish settlements in occupied lands. But no details were offered, and it seems likely that Mr. Sharon hopes only to move some isolated settlements alongside others still within occupied areas, rapidly complete a physical barrier and, in effect, tell the Palestinians that he has nothing further to say to them. 
 His promise to remove about 100 settlement outposts put up in the last few years is welcome, although it was not the first time he has made it. The hilltop outposts are not only a stick in the eye of Palestinians but also illegal by Mr. Sharon's own reckoning. Their dismantling, along with humanitarian steps that he offered -- removing closures and curfews on Palestinians and reducing the number of roadblocks in the occupied areas -- are vital. But they are insufficient, and his threat that if Palestinians do not make a move "in a few months" he will act unilaterally seems likely to increase violence and instability.
The speech, at a national conference on security, included some important assurances -- that Israel has no desire to govern the Palestinians and that he wants "a democratic Palestinian state with territorial contiguity" and "economic viability." But until Israel matches such promises with real action on its own side, they remain in the realm of rhetoric.
Mr. Sharon's words reflected a noticeable shift on the Israeli right recently. Ehud Olmert, the deputy prime minister, has been speaking about the need to face the reality that Jews will, in the coming years, be a minority in the area between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River, meaning Israel and the occupied areas. For Israel to remain both Jewish and democratic, he said, it must leave large swaths of conquered lands and move tens of thousands of settlers. 
Israel does indeed face a demographic problem, something Israelis on the left have been saying for years. It is heartening that key members of Likud seem finally to understand. Unfortunately, they fail to realize that drawing a boundary that maximizes the Jewish population is not enough. A viable Palestinian state needs to be built in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The Palestinians have failed terribly at moving in that direction. Their leadership has been bankrupt and their resort to terror unpardonable. But it is as much in Israel's interest as their neighbors' that Palestinian statehood succeed, and Israel can do a great deal to help bolster the weak Palestinian Authority. In particular, Israel needs to find a way to remove its settlers and soldiers not from a few isolated parts of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, but from nearly all of them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CURFEW (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%) EDITORIALS; PALESTINIANS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (59%) SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (50%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JORDAN (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%) ISRAEL; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



476 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Begins Investigation Of Airlines 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Mary Williams Walsh contributed reporting for this article. 

 BODY:
As United Airlines went back to a federal loan board for a second time yesterday, seeking approval for $1.6 billion in loan guarantees, the Justice Department opened an antitrust investigation into United's role in encouraging a hostile takeover bid for a regional carrier it uses on the East Coast.
 The investigation, disclosed late yesterday, cast a cloud over United's application for the federal aid. The Air Transportation Stabilization Board's decision last year to reject United's first request for assistance forced the airline to file for bankruptcy protection. 
 The Justice Department inquiry focuses on a spat that has created yet another hurdle for United, the nation's second-biggest air carrier, after American Airlines, as it attempts to restructure.
Last summer, Atlantic Coast Airlines, which operates as United Express and Delta Connection, announced that it would form a low-fare carrier, to be called Independence Air, which would fly out of Dulles International Airport near Washington. 
 Atlantic Coast Airlines has a contract to carry United passengers until 2010 but decided to start a separate operation to take advantage of the mushrooming demand by passengers for low-fare flights, and out of fear that a bankruptcy judge would order it to renegotiate its contracts with United at much lower fees, or void the contracts altogether.
 Mesa Airlines, meanwhile, made a hostile takeover bid for Atlantic Coast and signed an deal with United to operate its United Express flights if the bid succeeded.
 In its notice of the action, the Justice Department asked Atlantic Coast to turn over all documents related to Mesa and United by Jan. 9, the airline said. A spokeswoman for the department would not comment. Mesa and United also did not comment. 
 United executives have said that resolving the battle between Atlantic Coast and Mesa is one hurdle they must clear to emerge from bankruptcy protection. Getting the federal loan guarantees is an even bigger hurdle.
 United executives expressed confidence yesterday that their second bid for loan guarantees would be approved, based on a business plan that was much more conservative than the rosy forecast theypresented to the government last year.
 But competing airline executives and industry analysts predicted that United's reapplication would be the subject of an intense political battle.United submitted its revised application to the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, which was formed after the September 2001 terrorist attacks.
 Since its formation, the board has guaranteed loans to American Trans Air, America West Airlines and US Airways. United, which made its first request in June 2002, was by far the biggest airline to seek its help, and the only one among the six major United States carriers to do so.
 But last December, the loan board rejected United's initial application, saying that its business plan was unrealistic given the sharp decline in air travel after the stock market peaked, the economy slumped and the terrorist attacks discouraged many travelers. The board's decision to reject United's first application came after aggressive lobbying against United by a number of competitors, led by Continental Airlines.
 United filed for Chapter 11 protection shortly after the board rejected its request. Since then, United has moved to become more competitive. Notably, it obtained $2.56 billion a year in wage and benefit concessions from its labor unions, after asking a bankruptcy court judge to void their contracts.
 It has identified $5 billion in cost savings through 2005, and it has announced plans for a low-fare carrier, called Ted, which will begin service on a few routes in February.
 Glenn F. Tilton, chief executive of United's parent, the UAL Corporation, has also worked to build relationships with his own employees and with officials in Washington, where he has enlisted House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert as his main ally. Mr. Hastert, Republican of Illinois, has used his influence in recent months to promote United's case. United is based in Elk Grove Village, Ill., near Chicago.
 Earlier this week, United won commitments from J.P. Morgan Chase and Citigroup for $2 billion in financing, which it would get once it secures the federal loan guarantees and emerges from bankruptcy protection. The banks would provide $400 million in loans, on top of the $1.6 billion in guarantees sought from the government.
 "United's restructuring plan was designed to create a competitive, profitable company and to address the concerns raised by the A.T.S.B. last year," Mr. Tilton said.
 He said the new business plan that the company presented to the loan board "reflects a substantially stronger company." United has not made the details public. 
 The airline said, however, that its assumptions, the same given to its lenders, were conservative. Unlike last year's plan, which forecast a quick rebound, for example, the new plan predicts that the slumping airline industry will grow only as fast as the broader economy and will not return to peaks seen in the late 1990's, according to a person who was briefed on it. 
 In the industry's boom years, the airline industry accounted for nine-tenths of a percentage point of gross domestic product. That level has since slipped to about six-tenths of a point, because of the decline in revenues that has taken place as business travel has fallen and low-fare carriers have grabbed more market share. 
 Robert W. Mann Jr., an industry analyst based in Port Washington, N.Y., said the onus was on United to portray its prospects accurately, and to realistically anticipate the competitive pressures it will face in the future. "They had an incomplete last time," Mr. Mann said, using a report-card metaphor. "They're going back to submit for a grade now. You're either going to fail the course this time, or you're going to have to pass it."
 United, which initially predicted it could emerge from bankruptcy protection by now, has since said it plans to emerge during the first half of 2004. However, lawyers for the company said recently that the timetable might be pushed back further into 2004.
 Some in the industry say United may need longer than that to emerge from bankruptcy protection. The airline faces a series of problems that must be solved before it can develop a restructuring plan and exit Chapter 11 protection.
 The most pressing, aside from the Atlantic Coast Airlines situation, is to find a solution to its underfunded pension plans. Because it fell behind on pension payments before it filed for bankruptcy protection, United must make hundreds of millions of dollars in catch-up payments over the next 18 months, in addition to its normal funding payments. The airline said that it did not have the cash to make the payments and run its operations.
 United has sought both Congressional legislation and waivers from the Internal Revenue Service that would allow it to stretch out those payments. But Congress adjourned for the year without acting and the I.R.S. has yet to rule on its request.
 The pension issue was cited as a reason the loan board rejected United's request last year. In a letter to the company, the board said even if United obtained an I.R.S. waiver, United's required payments would remain "substantial." 
 But United has reduced its future pension obligations by $1.2 billion through labor contract concessions, said Frederic F. Brace III, its chief financial officer. Mr. Brace said he was confident the situation could be resolved. "We've reduced our funding," he said, "improved our business plan, and improved cash flow. Coupled with some modest legislative relief in pension reform, that makes it work." 
 Should United fail to get that relief, or the I.R.S. waivers, it could petition the bankruptcy court for permission to void its union pension plans. 
 Executives at competing airlines, who asked not to be identified, said United's case to the A.T.S.B. may be made more difficult by the deteriorating fortunes at US Airways. It obtained $900 million in loan guarantees when it emerged from bankruptcy protection earlier this year, but has encountered rocky financial times since then. Management recently told unions it must revise the business plan on which it based its emergence, citing competition from low-fare carriers. 
 Executives at several carriers predicted United would face opposition to its application.
 Mr. Mann agreed debate would be lively. "I don't see this as a slam dunk at all. I see it as just the opposite," he said. Because United is asking for almost twice as much as US Airways, the loan board could say, "'We have to take a very circumspect view with regard to this big nut in front of us,"' Mr. Mann said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AIR FARES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (87%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); LITIGATION (71%); JUDGES (66%); CONSERVATISM (61%); TERRORISM (60%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; FINANCES; BANKRUPTCIES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); MESABA AVIATION INC (56%); ATLANTIC COAST AIRLINES INC (56%); MESA AIR GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD (83%) JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; UNITED AIRLINES; ATLANTIC COAST AIRLINES HOLDINGS INC; AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD; MESA AIR GROUP INC; UNITED EXPRESS 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



477 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Philadelphia Factory Report Spurs Optimism 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The economy is enjoying a burst of energy heading into the new year, three reports showed yesterday. A gauge of Philadelphia-area manufacturing soared to the highest level in a decade, the index of leading economic indicators rose and jobless claims matched a nearly three-year low.
 The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia reported that its measure of manufacturing rose to 32.1 this month from 25.9 in November and that more factories in December hired workers than at any time since April 1973. An index measuring the average workweek rose to 18.4 from minus 1. 
 The region consists of eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and Delaware. Economists watch the report for clues about the performance of nationwide manufacturing. The overall index was the highest since December 1993.
 The Conference Board, a private group, said its leading index increased 0.3 percent in November, the sixth rise in the last seven months. Six of the 10 indicators it uses to compute the index contributed to the rise. Increased consumer confidence and a rise in factory hours helped augment the index outcome. The Labor Department reported that initial claims for state unemployment benefits dropped by 22,000, to 353,000 last week. Claims around 370,000 have been consistent with a monthly increase of 100,000 to 150,000 jobs, according to Lehman Brothers. 
 Economists had expected that claims would fall to 365,000, from the 378,000 initially reported for the preceding week. The level of claims, the same as in the last week of October, represented a nearly three- year low.
 The four-week average of jobless claims, a measure that tends to smooth out short-term fluctuations, dropped to 3.33 million, the lowest since September 2001.
 "The economy has a pretty full head of steam going into 2004," said Peter Hooper, chief United States economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Leading Indicators"An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity; 1996 = 100. Nov.: +0.3%Oct.: +0.5Sept.: Unch. Graph tracks index from June 2002 to November 2003. (Source by The Conference Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); WORK WEEK (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%) United States Economy; Factories and Industrial Plants; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Leading Economic Indicators; Unemployment Insurance; Working Hours; United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Conference Board; Labor Department (US)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%) SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Philadelphia (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



478 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Gaffe Aside, China Life Opens Strong In Hong Kong 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Dec. 18 

 BODY:
Shares of the China Life Insurance Company jumped 26 percent on Thursday in their first day of trading here, the latest sign of strength in the Hong Kong stock market as China's economy and the local economy prosper.
 The $3 billion initial offering was the world's largest this year and drew a strong response from institutional and retail investors eager for stakes in the biggest life insurer in the world's fastest-growing economy. 
 American depository receipts of China Life started trading in New York on Wednesday, where they climbed 30 percent. 
 Trading began here despite an embarrassing mix-up that caused the share allocations to be misprinted in the newspapers on Wednesday morning, although the correct allocations were posted on the Web site of the Hong Kong Exchange, the local stock market.
 Newspaper ads inaccurately listed 9,186 retail investors as receiving 3,000 shares each instead of the 2,000 shares they were due in the heavily oversubscribed offering.
 Corrected lists were published this morning, and trading proceeded smoothly, a spokesman for the Hong Kong Exchange, Henry Law, said. "We are very concerned about this incident and we will work closely" with the Securities and Futures Commission, the regulatory agency, he said.
 An executive at Computershare, which did the computerized allocation of shares, said that the allocation went smoothly and that the error occurred when another company typeset the data for the newspapers. The executive declined to identify the typesetting company or discuss whether it had been chosen by China Life or by the investment banks that sponsored the deal.
 Credit Suisse First Boston, Deutsche Bank, China International Capital and Citigroup were the sponsors for the offering, with Citigroup serving as the stabilizing agent in charge of managing many of the small details of the actual offering.
 Chan Chi-keung, a spokesman for the Securities and Futures Commission, said the agency had asked that Citigroup and Computershare submit reports on what went wrong. The spokesman said that anyone who had deliberately tried to engage in illegal short selling transactions using shares they had not been issued could face regulatory action.
 But the executive at Computershare said improper trading was unlikely, as brokerage accounts were properly updated electronically with the correct number of shares.
 Citigroup declined to comment.
 The China Life shares climbed to 4.525 Hong Kong dollars (58 cents) from an initial price of 3.59, excluding brokerage and other fees.
 The Hang Seng index of stocks here climbed four-tenths of a percent on Thursday, to 12,240.25, continuing a long ascent since bottoming out late last spring, when the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome was at its worst.
 After the close of trading on Thursday, the local government announced that unemployment hadfallen to 7.5 percent for the period from September through November, compared with 8 percent for August through October, the fourth consecutive decline. 
 Stores, restaurants, construction companies and trading houses all hired more workers.
 Economists had been predicting that unemployment would fall to 7.8 percent in the most recent period. Goldman Sachs forecast in a report last Thursday that unemployment would drop to 6.2 percent by the end of this year.
 Companies are stepping up their investments here partly to take advantage of the preferential trade access to the mainland China market that Hong Kong and Beijing officials negotiated last summer and that will take effect on Jan. 1.
 A British colony until 1997, Hong Kong remains a separate customs territory with its own legal and economic system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIFE INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); FUTURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (79%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (69%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (62%); SARS (60%) Life Insurance; Life Insurance

COMPANY: CHINA LIFE INSURANCE CO LTD (94%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CHINA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY ; China Life Insurance

TICKER: LFC (NYSE) (94%); 2823 (TAIEX) (94%); 2628 (HKSE) (94%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



479 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Strong Reports on Manufacturing and Jobs Buoy Market

BYLINE:  By Reuters

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended at their highest levels in about 19 months for a third day yesterday after data showing strength in manufacturing and a surprise drop in weekly jobless claims reassured Wall Street about the economy.
 The Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank said its monthly gauge of manufacturing in the mid-Atlantic region jumped to a decade-high 32.1 in December from 25.9 in November, defying forecasts for a decline. 
 The Labor Department said first-time claims for state unemployment benefits, a rough guide to the pace of layoffs, fell more than expected to 353,000 last week, matching a nearly three-year low hit in early November. 
 Adam Tracy, director for listed trading at Thomas Weisel Partners in San Francisco, said: "The market was up this morning after the jobless claims came out, which made everyone happy. The Philly Fed was also a pretty strong number. Nobody can really dispute that things are going pretty well."
 The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 102.82 points, or 1.01 percent, to 10,248.08, its highest finish since May 17, 2002. The S.&P. 500 rose 12.70 points, or 1.18 percent, to 1,089.18, its highest close since May 23, 2002. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index gained 34.85 points, or 1.81 percent, to 1,956.18.
 Honeywell International topped percentage gainers on the Dow after J.P. Morgan upgraded its rating on the company to overweight from neutral. Shares of Honeywell, a leading maker of electronic cockpit systems, rose $1.31, or 4.3 percent, to $31.57.
 Bed Bath & Beyond shares rose, one day after the company said that its quarterly earnings rose by more than a third, beating Wall Street forecasts. Shares increased $2.21, or 5.5 percent, to $42.17, pushing the S.&P. specialty stores index up 2.6 percent.
 Colgate-Palmolive shares fell after it said it would buy Gaba Holding, a privately held Swiss toothpaste maker. Shares of Colgate dropped $3.58, or 6.6 percent, to $50.30. Colgate said it would pay up to $830 million in cash for Gaba, a move seen as an effort to expand its oral-care business in Europe.
 Shares of Nike Inc. fell after the close, even after it reported higher quarterly earnings that beat Wall Street estimates. Shares dropped as low as $65.05 on Instinet after closing at $66.80 on the New York Stock Exchange. After the close, Nike reported second-quarter earnings of $179 million, or 66 cents a diluted share, up from year-ago earnings of $152 million, or 57 cents a share. Analysts' average forecast was 61 cents a share.
 The dollar fell to record lows against the euro in thin trading; investors appeared uninspired by the jobs and manufacturing reports and unwilling to bet against a powerful trend downward for the dollar. In New York, the euro settled at $1.2427, up from $1.2404 on Wednesday. 
 Treasury prices were mostly higher yesterday, shaking off the drop in weekly jobless claims and later the unexpected surge in the manufacturing index.
 Trading has thinned out this week, as some dealers close out their books for the year and prices show resistance to even the most startling data.
 By late in the day, the benchmark 10-year note gained 14/32 to a price of 100 31/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.13 percent from 4.18 percent on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Freddie Mac Yields"Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly. Graph tracks average for 15 and 30-year mortgages since August. 30-year: 5.32%15-year: 4.64% (Source by F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); ORAL CARE PRODUCTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS MFG (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); CURRENCIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (66%); EURO (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Currency; Records and Achievements; Credit; Stocks and Bonds; Interest Rates

COMPANY: NIKE INC (81%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (72%); THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (56%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (53%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (81%); HON (NYSE) (54%); HON (LSE) (54%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (53%); CL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (81%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (81%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (81%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (81%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (54%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (53%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (53%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



480 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Argentina: Paid But Jobless 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

 BODY:
 Argentina's jobless rate is falling in part because the government is paying people like Paulino Villalba to stay off the rolls of unemployed. "I wish I could say I have a job," Mr. 
Villalba, 42, a former systems technician for the BellSouth Corporation's Argentine unit, said during a demonstration by unemployed people in Buenos Aires last week. President Nestor Kirchner's government says the 150 pesos ($51) it gives Mr. Villalba each month is the equivalent of collecting a paycheck for a job. Mr. Villalba, who has been out of work for two years, has received the payments for about six months. Such handouts helped drive down the jobless rate to a four-year low of 14.3 percent in the third quarter from a record 21.5 percent in May 2002, the government said yesterday. Argentina's actual unemployment rate, counting those receiving government handouts, is still above 16 percent, said Pablo Morra, an economist at Goldman Sachs & Company in New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%) Labor; Unemployment; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: AT&T SOUTHEAST (72%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (72%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (72%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: NESTOR KIRCHNER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) Argentina

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



481 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
BROWNER, HARRY M.

 BODY:
 BROWNER--Harry M., 96, Associate Professor of Political Science and History at Palm Beach Community College; taught economic-geography in NYC; professional photographer; employed by the post office. Born in Brooklyn of immigrant parents, he quickly became his father's interpreter; his father was a builder and he translated Yiddish into English for the other workers. 
Educated at NYU and Columbia University. A member of the Hillcrest Jewish Center, Hebrew Congregation of Somers, Temple Beth Shalom in Mahopac, and Temple Beth El in Palm Beach, FL. His late wife of 57 years was Lee Carlin Browner. Survived by two daughters and sons-in-law, Eleanor and Bill Greco of Forked River, NJ, and Barbara and Charles Schiller of Yorktown Heights, NY; grandchildren, Laura, Andrew and Zachary. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%) 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON:  BROWNER, HARRY M. 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



482 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Change The Channel 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Saddam is now a staple of the Leno and Letterman shows.
 And Paris Hilton outgunned President Bush in a prime-time shootout between Fox and ABC. 
 And we're already choosing up sides on Kobe's and Jacko's guilt or innocence.
We really are amusing ourselves to death, as Neil Postman pointed out a couple of decades ago. He might as well have been speaking into the void. It's only gotten worse. 
Americans are the best-informed people in the history of the world. But we are experts at distancing ourselves from any real unpleasantness. Most of us behave as though we bear no personal responsibility for the deep human suffering all around us, and no obligation to try and alleviate it.
Paris, Jacko, Saddam. The world is like one big media show, a made-for-TV spectacular. We can change the channel if things get too ugly. Or just turn the television off. Genuine social consciousness is for squares.
Example: The nation's at war. Is there any reason to share in the sacrifices wars usually require? Nah. The grunts can do the fighting and the dying. And we can put the costs on a credit card. Future generations will pay for it.
And here at home? The headlines tell us things are pretty good. The economy's turned around and the president's poll numbers are up. Let's head for the mall.
The problem is, if you peel away the headlinesand look more closely at reality, you'll see some things that aren't so amusing. In New York City, which is just now emerging from the recession, there are more homeless people than at any time since accurate records started being kept in the late 1970's.
Each night more than 39,000 people -- nearly 17,000 of them children -- seek refuge in the city's shelters. "It's the greatest number of homeless since the Great Depression," said Patrick Markee, a policy analyst with the Coalition for the Homeless.
The faces of the destitute are changing as more and more families with children -- in New York and across the nation -- find themselves without the money necessary for food or shelter.
The U.S. Conference of Mayors released a report yesterday showing that over the past year hunger and homelessness continued to rise in major American cities. A survey of 25 cities showed an increase of 17 percent in requests for emergency food assistance and an increase of 13 percent in requests for emergency shelter.
A surge in the Dow is big news. Surges in hunger and homelessness are not.
A broader look at the levels of serious distress being faced by increasing numbers of Americans comes from the latest Index of Social Health, which is published annually by the Institute for Innovation in Social Policy at the Fordham University Graduate Center in Tarrytown, N.Y.
The institute analyzes government statistics in a wide variety of areas, including infant mortality, children in poverty, teenage suicide, health insurance coverage and homicide rates, as a way of monitoring the "social well-being of the nation."
The latest index, which covered the year 2001 (the latest year for which complete statistics were available), showed the social health of the nation taking a steep dive. It was the biggest decline in the index in two decades. And preliminary data for the years since 2001 show the decline continuing, according to Dr. Marc Miringoff, the institute's director.
The categories that worsened in the latest index were children in poverty, child abuse, average weekly earnings, affordable housing, health insurance coverage, food stamp coverage, the gap between rich and poor, and out-of-pocket health costs for those over 65.
Two indicators reached their worst levels on record, food stamp coverage (which correlates with increases in hunger) and income inequality.
"These numbers are usually invisible to us," said Dr. Miringoff. "They tell us an untold story, not just about the poor but the working poor and the middle class as well. It's shocking to see such a sharp decline in just one year. It tells us that something's going on with the basic fabric of our society."
We might actually pay attention to problems like hunger, homelessness, housing and health costs, if only we could find a way to make them amusing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (86%); CITIES (86%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); HANUKKAH (74%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); FAMILY (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); CITY LIFE (68%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (66%); FOOD CHARITIES (64%); GREAT DEPRESSION (63%); TERRORISM (59%); MAYORS (50%) JEWS; HANUKKAH; MENORAHS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); PARIS HILTON (73%); JAY LENO (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%) REDNISS, LAUREN; HALAHMY, ODED; HUSSEIN, SADDAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ)#000T031220SRAQA01# 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



483 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Tries to Lure Oil Investors 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: BARCELONA, Venezuela 

 BODY:
Outside this coastal city, just north of Venezuela's richest oil and gas fields, storage tanks brim with petroleum products, a network of pipelines hum with crude, and tankers load at the rate of 18,000 barrels an hour.
 President Hugo Chavez, a leftist populist who has cast himself as one of the world's leading voices against globalization, celebrates installations like this oil refinery as a national patrimony beholden only to Venezuela's 25 million people. 
 But the fact is that the oil that flows through here is pumped largely by foreign companies, many of them American, including Exxon Mobil, ChevronTexaco and ConocoPhillips, and the tankers are bound for the United States. Moreover, if the government's long-range plans take hold, the world's biggest energy companies will increasingly be the ones paying for the extraction of fossil fuels in this energy-rich country. 
 Mr. Chavez's government has apparently succumbed to reality: the government oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela, battered a year ago by an anti-Chavez strike, simply does not have the capital to go it alone. 
 So despite the image Mr. Chavez has cultivated in his five years as president, the government is aggressively seeking foreign investors to expand oil production and develop the emerging natural gas industry. The policy, outlined in public documents and in interviews with oil company executives, has irritated some of the president's more leftist backers while apparently veering Venezuela back to the course it pursued years before he took office.
 "For all its rhetoric, the truth is that this government has treated investors with preferential treatment, and has been careful not to alienate investors too much," said Rafael de la Fuente, chief Latin America economist for BNP Paribas in New York. "So you've had this ironic situation where Chavez has been knocking on foreign investors' doors and telling them: 'Come to Venezuela."'
 Indeed, oil activity by Pdvsa, as the $42 billion government oil giant is known, declined 12.2 percent in the third quarter compared with the third quarter of 2002, according to Venezuela's central bank, while private oil industry activity shot up 30.2 percent. State oil export volumes fell 27.4 percent in the period, but exports by private oil companies, including American ones, rose 37.7 percent, according to balance of payments data released by the bank.
 In all, more than a third of the oil produced in Venezuela is produced by private companies, about a million barrels daily, up from 400,000 before Mr. Chavez became president. 
 The emphasis on multinationals may come as a surprise to many people around the world, given Mr. Chavez's harsh criticisms of globalization and of Washington's initiatives for a hemispherewide trade agreement. South American countries must take more control of their fossil fuels, he says, possibly forming a continentwide energy company. He was also supportive of Bolivian indigenous groups in their fight against a foreign-backed project to develop natural gas in that Andean country. The protests eventually prompted the Bolivian president, Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada, to resign in October and made uncertain the future of a proposed $5 billion pipeline to export natural gas to the United States and Mexico.
 In Venezuela, though, the government's oil policy is seen as pragmatic, aimed at obtaining capital to help Pdvsa grow while providing the revenues needed to finance the government's antipoverty efforts.
 "In a country with a big debt, in a country that needs lots of social investments, it is obvious that we are open to associating ourselves with the people who can bring the capital," said Nelson Martinez, who oversees Pdvsa's operations in the eastern part of the country.
 Ever since a two-month oil strike that shuttered oil production ended in February, Pdvsa has been working to assure investors that the country is stable and that its most important company is back to normal. Mr. Chavez's government fired 18,000 striking workers and slowly reactivated production to prestrike levels, more than three million barrels a day, while increasing the role the energy and mines ministry plays in making important decisions, Pdvsa officials say. (Some industry and financial experts say that daily output figure is inflated.) 
 Venezuelan oil officials have staged a conference for oil executives in Houston, met with Wall Street analysts and had breakfast in Washington with members of Congress from oil-producing states.
 "It's been a huge public relations offensive for the last year," said David Voght, managing director of IPD Latin America, a consultant to oil companies operating in Venezuela. "There's a higher level of interest by investors in Venezuela because the government has just been out there drumming up business."
 In the vast fields south of here, Exxon Mobil, ChevronTexaco, ConocoPhillips, Statoil of Norway and Total of France already operate ventures with Pdvsa.
 The crude in those fields, spread across a flat landscape of grasslands known as the Orinoco Belt, is heavy and gelatinous, and thus highly expensive to extract and refine. But there is so much of it -- oil officials claim hopefully that there is more than in all of Saudi Arabia -- that Pdvsa is expecting these multinationals and others to expand operations.
 The company is also negotiating with a range of other companies, from little-known concerns like Harvest Natural Resources of Houston to giants like Petroleo Brasileiro, which has announced that it will spend $1.3 billion in the next decade to double production in Venezuela. Increasingly, Pdvsa speaks of foreign companies developing some of the country's most important finds.
 Meanwhile, Venezuela is moving to finish auctioning offshore blocks to companies to develop the country's 147 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, by far the largest estimated reserves in Latin America.
 Statoil and ChevronTexaco already have won licenses to explore two of the five blocks that make up the Deltana Platform project near Trinidad's maritime border, off the eastern coast of Venezuela. The government says that by early next year it also will offer seven natural gas blocks to bidders in western Venezuela, near Colombia.
 Royal Dutch/Shell, meanwhile, is considering spearheading development of Mariscal Sucre, a $2.7 billion project that includes offshore drilling for natural gas, a network of pipelines and a liquefied natural gas plant on the eastern Paria Peninsula.
 In all, Pdvsa says it needs to invest $36 billion from now until 2008 to reach a production capacity of 4.4 million barrels of oil a day and to develop Venezuela's gas fields, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 The company has permitted multinational companies to operate oil fields for a fee since the early 1990's. By the end of the decade, Venezuela had begun developing the Orinoco Belt with four so-called strategic associations that allowed companies to operate under a preferential tax and royalty structure. Now, the government is hoping foreign concerns will ramp up production even more.
 Under the company's five-year plan, detailed in the S.E.C. filings, production from 33 oil fields operated by foreign companies for a fee will increase to 630,000 barrels daily by 2005 from 481,000 barrels a day.
 The Orinoco Belt's heavy oil projects, meanwhile, will increase output from about 450,000 barrels a day to 600,000 within the next year, Pdvsa executives said. The state company's business plan also expects 460,000 barrels a day by 2010 from eight other fields in other parts of the country that are still being developed.
 The United States, as it tries to lessen its reliance on the Middle East, will benefit if more oil is produced here. "We need them, and they need us," said Larry Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, an industry-supported consultant in New York.
 This is not to say that Venezuela is ideal for investment.
 Mr. Chavez's government raised its royalty rates to 30 percent from 16.7 percent through its 2001 hydrocarbons law and limited foreign participation in new oil projects to a 49 percent stake, though refining and gas projects can be controlled fully by foreign companies.
 And Pdvsa, a partner for the foreign oil concerns, is still suffering from the after-effects of the strike. Fields and equipment damaged in the shutdown were also damaged in the reactivation as an inexperienced and understaffed labor force tried to resume production under intense pressure. The firing of so many workers, half the company's prestrike total, has also meant the loss of crucial institutional knowledge.
 The S.E.C. filings noted that net income had fallen precipitously, to $2.59 billion last year from nearly $4 billion in 2001. Revenue slid 8 percent, to $42.6 billion.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hugo Chavez, the president of Venezuela, observed the fifth anniversary of his presidency at a rally in Caracas earlier this month. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. W1); A worker for Pdvsa, as the government oil company is known in Venezuela, monitored the loading of crude oil at the Jose platform. The platform processes heavy oil that is extracted by foreign oil companies. (Photo by Polaris)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); MINING OUTPUT (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Foreign Investments; Labor; Strikes; International Trade and World Market; Production; Gas (Fuel); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (91%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); CHEVRON CORP (57%); BNP PARIBAS SA (55%); PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Petroleos De Venezuela Sa

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (91%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); CVX (NYSE) (57%); BNP (PAR) (55%); BNP (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (91%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (91%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (91%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (93%) CHAVEZ, HUGO ; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Juan Forero

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



484 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Big Board Appointment Aims to Erase the Past
In tapping John A. Thain to restore its tattered image, the New York Stock Exchange is turning to a dispassionate Wall Street technocrat whose manner and methods contrast sharply with the back-slapping approach to running the exchange favored by Richard A. Grasso, its former chairman.
 John S. Reed, the exchange's interim chairman, called the Big Board's recent past "embarrassing" and said that Mr. Thain, 48, was the perfect candidate to begin erasing those memories. Page A1. 

U.S. Fights Freddie Mac Severance
The Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight took a step toward forcing two former Freddie Mac executives -- the former chairman, Leland C. Brendsel, and the former chief financial officer, Vaughn A. Clarke -- to forfeit millions of dollars in benefits, asserting that they should not receive severance and bonuses because they played a role in improper manipulation of the company's results. C10.

Alliance Capital Settles Complaint
Alliance Capital Management agreed to pay $250 million to investors and to cut its fees by an estimated $350 million to settle complaints that it permitted some hedge funds and others to make improper trades in its funds. C2.

New York Sues Junk E-Mail Senders
Eliot Spitzer, the attorney general of New York, filed a civil suit against three marketing companies for sending fraudulent e-mail, and said that he would seek penalties so large that it would drive them out of business. C4.

Credit Lyonnais Agreement Praised
Federal authorities praised the $770 million settlement with Credit Lyonnais and other parties as a triumph for policyholders of Executive Life, the failed insurer. C2.

Wind Energy Planned in Britain
Energy companies, including Royal Dutch/Shell, plan to erect more than 1,000 turbines off the coast of Britain in a $12.4 billion project to build the largest source of wind energy. A6.

Coke North America Head Leaving
Coca-Cola announced that Jeffery T. Dunn, left, the president and chief operating officer of Coke's North American division, is leaving to pursue "his own entrepreneurial goals." Steven J. Heyer, the president and chief operating officer of the Coca-Cola Company, will take over. Mr. Dunn's departure was widely anticipated in the industry, particularly after Coke executives said last week that they were disappointed with North American sales. C2.

Violation of Do-Not-Call List Cited
The Federal Communications Commission cited CPM Funding, which does business as California Pacific Mortgage, for violations of the national do-not-call list. C9.

Settlement in Vitamin Price Fixing
Merck of Germany has agreed to pay an undisclosed sum to settle accusations of participating in an international conspiracy to control the price of vitamins. C8.

China Life Jumps in Hong Kong
Shares of China Life Insurance jumped 26 percent in their first day of trading in Hong Kong, the latest sign of strength in the Hong Kong market as China's economy and the local economy prosper. World Business, Section W.

Earnings Up 42% at Morgan Stanley
Profits at Morgan Stanley rose 42 percent in the fourth quarter, helped by gains in stock and bond trading. The company increased its dividend for the first time since 2001. C10.

Stronger Economy Buoys Markets
Data showing strength in manufacturing and a drop in jobless claims sent the Dow Jones industrials up 102.82 points, to 10,248.08. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 12.70 points, to 1,089.18, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 34.85 points, to 1,956.18. C10.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,248.08 up 102.82Nasdaq composite -- 1,956.68 up 34.8510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.13% down 0.05The euro -- $1.2427 up 0.0023The dollar -- 107.59 yen up 0.23 Graph tracks the daily closing price of Freddie Mac shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LITIGATION (87%); TELEMARKETING REGULATION (87%); INSURANCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LIFE INSURANCE (73%); INSURANCE POLICIES (73%); PRICE FIXING (72%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); TELEMARKETING (70%); EMAIL MARKETING (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); CONSPIRACY (70%); CARTELS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); WIND ENERGY (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%); CYBERCRIME (65%); DO NOT CALL LISTS (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); CREDIT LYONNAIS SA (90%); COCA-COLA CO (81%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (65%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); CALIFORNIA PACIFIC MORTGAGE CO (51%); CHINA LIFE INSURANCE CO LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (57%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (81%); RDSA (LSE) (65%); RDSA (AMS) (65%); RDS.B (NYSE) (65%); RDS.A (NYSE) (65%); LFC (NYSE) (50%); 2823 (TAIEX) (50%); 2628 (HKSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (81%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (65%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (65%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



485 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Former Employees Say Nassau County Misused Housing Funds 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Dec. 18 

 BODY:
Two former high-ranking Nassau County employees are suing the county and its executive, saying they were fired for raising concerns that the county was misspending federal money earmarked for urban development projects in poor neighborhoods.
 The officials, Thomas Williams and Robin Pellegrini, said the county had illegally used block grant money from the Department of Housing and Urban Development to pay county employees' salaries. Mr. Williams, a former director of the county's Civil Service Commission, said Nassau was siphoning as much as $1 million a year from the grants to pay 20 to 30 county employees. 
 Their claims, articulated in a $70 million federal lawsuit filed Thursday, were another public salvo in the county's first political scandal since Thomas R. Suozzi, a Democrat, was elected county executive on a reform platform two years ago.
A deputy county executive, Peter Sylver, resigned last month after it became known that he had spent federal money on trips to London and tinted windows for his county car. Subsequent investigations led to the firing of several employees in Mr. Sylver's office.
Republicans, sensing blood in the water, have criticized Mr. Suozzi's office for the financial imbroglio and now say he is dragging his feet on providing documents for an investigation. Peter J. Schmitt, the Republican minority leader of the County Legislature, said Mr. Suozzi's office was focusing the investigation on how to prevent future misconduct to distract attention from wrongdoing. 
Ms. Pellegrini, the former director of the county's Office of Housing and Intergovernmental Affairs, said a deputy county executive had told her to hire his friends and pay them with federal money. She said she was told to solicit "sham" bids after projects had been completed, and to spend HUD funds on projects that had nothing to do with urban development.
Mr. Williams and Ms. Pellegrini, who said they did not know each other when they worked for the county, called themselves whistle-blowers who were fired for speaking up.
In a statement, the chief deputy Nassau County attorney, Elizabeth Botwin, said their charges had no merit. Ms. Botwin said that Mr. Williams had been fired because of his "intemperate behavior and irrational demands" on the people with whom he worked, and that Ms. Pellegrini had been fired because she was insubordinate to Mr. Sylver and had bungled a recertification project, nearly costing the county $70 million in lost federal money.
One county official, who insisted on anonymity, said many people within the administration considered the suits frivolous and thought the claims of misspent federal grant money were based on a flawed interpretation of the law.
The block grants are given to Nassau County, which then disperses them to various agencies inside and outside the county government, following the terms of a plan approved by the Legislature.
Several community advocates who attended a Thursday morning news conference announcing the lawsuit said they believed the county was using its yearly $18 million in HUD community development block grants as a piggy bank for its own employees.
John L. Kearse, the chief executive of Nassau's Economic Opportunity Commission, said his organization receives about half the money it once did from the county. HUD officials said the county has received about the same amount from the federal government since 2001. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (92%); LITIGATION (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); CITIES (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); ETHICS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); POLITICS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%) Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Suits and Litigation; Ethics; Wages and Salaries; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Government Employees

PERSON: Patrick Healy; Thomas Williams; Robin Pellegrini

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Nassau County (NY) ; United States; Nassau County (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



486 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
Improved Economy Cited as Mortgage Delinquencies and Foreclosures Fall

BYLINE:  By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut have dipped over the last year, as they have across the country, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association -- surprising some market observers.
 "A year ago, I expected things would be much worse than they are now," said George McCarthy, a housing economist at the Ford Foundation. "The numbers are encouraging." 
 The patterns are particularly encouraging in what is called the subprime market -- mortgage loans extended to borrowers with blemished credit histories. "The improvement in the subprime market," Dr. McCarthy said, "shows real promise for providing much-needed credit to people who would otherwise not be served." 
Douglas G. Duncan, the chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association, which has 2,700 members, said data for the third quarter of 2003 was an indication of the nation's economic recovery. "The primary factor behind the decline in delinquencies is improvement in the employment market," he said.
In the third quarter of this year, payments on 4.42 percent of the nation's mortgages were delinquent by 30 days or more, a decrease from 4.81 percent in the third quarter of 2002. At the same time, the percentage of loans in the process of foreclosure during the third quarter was 1.12 percent, down from 1.15 percent in the third quarter of last year. 
"The real story emerges when we break the numbers into their components," Dr. McCarthy said, pointing out that the prime market is doing "as well as ever." Nationally, prime-rate mortgage delinquencies stood at 2.54 percent, down from 2.64 percent last year, and foreclosures were at 0.53 percent, up slightly from 0.51 percent.
Subprime-mortgage delinquencies, however, showed a significant decline at 12.07 percent, down from 14.78 percent a year ago. And subprime mortgages in the foreclosure process stood at 6.60 percent, which -- while still 13 times the rate for prime mortgages -- was down from 8.58 percent in 2002. "This is almost miraculous," Dr. McCarthy said.
Similar patterns were recorded in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
In New York State, the percentage of delinquent loans during the third quarter was 4.22 percent, down from 4.67 percent a year ago. The percentage of loans in foreclosure was 1.20 percent, down from 1.35 percent.
Delinquencies for prime mortgages in New York stood at 2.79 percent, down from 3.04 percent. And the delinquency rate for subprime mortgages was 9.83 percent, down from 12.28 percent.
In New York's prime market, foreclosures were at 0.51 percent, down from 0.54 percent. And in the subprime market, foreclosures stood at 5.78 percent, down from 9.51 percent.
Dr. McCarthy said New York's improved foreclosure performance is "possibly a result of a statewide anti-predatory-lending law" that took effect in April.
Across the nation, he said, subprime foreclosures were falling, in part, "because attention has been paid to preventing foreclosures. The efforts of local activists and legislators has borne real fruit in cleaning up predatory practices."
Mr. Duncan did not quite agree. In fact, passage of state laws affecting the subprime market "work the other way," he said. "What happens is a lengthening of the work-out process, leading to increases in the inventory of people in the foreclosure process."
Whatever the reasons, improvement was also evident in New Jersey and Connecticut.
In New Jersey, the overall delinquency rate in the third quarter was 4.13 percent, down from 4.61 percent. The percentage of loans in foreclosure was 1.23 percent, down from 1.39 percent.
Prime-mortgage delinquencies in New Jersey stood at 2.39 percent, down from 2.61 percent. And for subprime mortgages, delinquencies were at 8.21 percent, down from 10.15 percent.
New Jersey's foreclosure rate for prime mortgages was 0.51 percent, down from 0.54 percent. For subprime mortgages, foreclosures stood at 5.64 percent, down from 9.68 percent.
In Connecticut, the overall delinquency rate was 3.62 percent, down from 3.88 percent, and the percentage of loans in foreclosure was 0.84 percent, down from 0.89 percent.
Connecticut's prime-mortgage delinquencies stood at 2.21 percent, down from 2.46 percent. And subprime delinquencies were at 8.71 percent, down from 10.78 percent.
The state's prime-mortgage foreclosure rate was 0.39 percent, slightly down from 0.40 percent. And subprime foreclosures stood at 4.79 percent, down from 6.59 percent.
A resilient housing market during recent economic uncertainty, Mr. Duncan and Dr. McCarthy agreed, was cause for optimism. "Continued strength in housing prices helps households having payment difficulties avoid foreclosure," Mr. Duncan said. "In other words, they can sell their home and retain some of the equity."
Dr. McCarthy said, "So long as house prices stay strong, the picture looks bright."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Foreclosures Dip"Percentages of loans in foreclosure at ends of quarters. Graph tracks percentages of loans in foreclosure for New Jersey, New York, and Connecticut since 1990. (Source by Mortgage Bankers Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); INTEREST RATES (79%); TRENDS (78%); PRIME RATES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CITIES (74%) Real Estate; Economic Conditions and Trends; Mortgages; Foreclosures

PERSON: Dennis Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; Connecticut; New Jersey; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



487 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: 6 Hostages Held at Gunpoint, and an Angry Cat to the Rescue 

BYLINE:  By ANDREA ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The neighbors wondered as they stared through their peepholes. Police officers had stampeded the 10th floor of an apartment building in upper Manhattan on Wednesday night and shot a man who had pointed his gun at them, officials said.
 The man, whom the police have not identified, was in serious but stable condition last night at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, they said. But it could have been worse. 
 Here is what the neighbors at 213 Nagle Avenue in Inwood did not know: the man had barged into Apartment 10G, demanding money, and forced six people to strip naked. They were saved, one of the victims said, by a cat named Booboo Kitty.
"I really think that cat saved my life," said Leonard Rzepnicki, 58, who shares the apartment with his wife, Cheryl Walker.
It all began around 7 p.m., when Mr. Rzepnicki, Ms. Walker and three friends were gathered around the kitchen.
"We were just sitting around cooking a pot of neck bones and beans -- you know, a poor man's meal," said Mr. Rzepnicki, who is unemployed.
Suddenly, the attacker was knocking at the door with another man, whom one of Mr. Rzepnicki's friends recognized. Not knowing that the attacker was armed and holding the other man at gunpoint, Mr. Rzepnicki allowed the two into the apartment. 
Then the gunman rounded all six people up and demanded money, said Mr. Rzepnicki, who told him he had none to give him. 
"Then he said strip and everyone stripped," said Mr. Rzepnicki, who said he had recognized the gunman from the neighborhood. The man ordered Mr. Rzepnicki into his bedroom and pointed the gun at his head, he said. At that moment, Booboo Kitty approached the gunman, Mr. Rzepnicki said.
Mr. Rzepnicki said he asked him not to hurt the cat, but the gunman picked her up, he said. She hissed at him and scratched his hand. He dropped her and then chased her into the living room, at which point Mr. Rzepnicki made his escape, running naked out of the apartment and down to the eighth floor, where he called the police from another apartment, he said.
Officers swarmed the 10th floor, according to neighbors, blocking every door and shouting at people to stay inside.
"They screamed, 'Get inside your apartment, there's a shoot-out,' " said a 44-year-old woman who watched the commotion with her 14-year-old son and was afraid to give her name. "That'll put you back in your apartment."
A woman showed the police to the apartment and told them a man with a gun was inside, said Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly. 
When the police entered Apartment 10G, the man pointed a gun at them and one officer shot him in the torso, the commissioner said.
A few doors down, the 44-year-old woman and her son heard the shot, dropped to the floor of their apartment and crawled to the bedroom. "Bullets go through walls," she said. "We didn't know."
After the shooting, the officers backed out and called the Emergency Service Unit, which entered the apartment and found the gunman with Ms. Walker and two other people in a bedroom. Three others, including Mr. Rzepnicki, had already escaped. None of the others were physically harmed.
The 10th floor of 213 Nagle Avenue is its own quiet neighborhood, a hallway of red doors festooned with tinsel ribbons and Santa Claus decorations. But the mood was darker yesterday, as dried blood stained the linoleum tiles along the hallway. The man had been wearing a jacket when he was shot. Pieces of down from the lining of his coat skipped along the tiles as people walked past.
"We want to move," said Richard Brown, 52, a private security officer who lives with his wife and son next to the apartment where the shooting occurred. "Maybe it's getting a little too dangerous."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leonard Rzepnicki credits his cat, Booboo Kitty, for his escape from a gunman, later shot by the police. "I really think that cat saved my life." (Photo by Diane Bondareff) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROBBERY (90%); CATS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%) Robberies and Thefts; Cats; Hostages

PERSON: Andrea Elliott; Leonard Rzepnicki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



488 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: The Other Front: America's Economy 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert (column, Dec. 15) sees the current $5.15 minimum wage as "pathetic." He's right, but for the wrong reason. 
The minimum wage is pathetic, not because it's too low, but because it makes unemployable our least productive and most vulnerable workers. Those whose productivity falls short of the minimum wage are not able to get or keep jobs. Raising the minimum wage would further hurt their chance for jobs. 
 In fact, the minimum wage should be abolished. The Times put it well in an excellent 1987 editorial, "The Right Minimum Wage: $0.00." You stated, "Raising the minimum wage by a substantial amount would price working poor people out of the job market."
That was true then, and it's true now. Those who want to help the poor should concentrate on eliminating barriers that prevent them from getting jobs, rather than erecting new ones.

DAVID R. HENDERSON
Pacific Grove, Calif., Dec. 15, 2003

The writer is a research fellow at the Hoover Institution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage

ORGANIZATION: HOOVER INSTITUTION ON WAR REVOLUTION & PEACE (54%)

PERSON: David R Henderson; Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



489 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Washington: More Homeless And Hungry 

BYLINE:  By John Files (NYT)

 BODY:
 Hunger and homelessness rose in many of the largest cities in the United States this year, a report from the Conference of Mayors said, and officials predicted that such problems would continue next year despite improved economic conditions. 
The report found that requests for emergency food aid increased 17 percent from last year and that requests for emergency shelter rose 13 percent. Low wages and high housing costs were cited as factors, the report said. John Files (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (91%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (88%); CITIES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (86%); MAYORS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Food; Homeless Persons; Urban Areas

PERSON: John Files

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



490 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: City Jobless Rate Falls 

BYLINE:  By Eric Lipton (NYT); Compiled by Michelle O'Donnell

 BODY:
 The unemployment rate in New York City dropped below 8 percent for the first time this year, as the city continued to see a modest increase in private-sector jobs, new state and city reports said. The unemployment rate dropped to 7.7 percent in November, compared with 8.8 percent two months earlier. Year over year, total private-sector employment is still down slightly in New York City compared with November 2002. But for the third straight month, the city had a seasonally adjusted increase in private-sector jobs, totaling now 11,800 since August, according to the City Office of Management and Budget. Of that total, 900 jobs were added in November. The pace of the recovery in the city is slower than in most of the rest of the state and in the nation. But the trends are pointing toward a recovery, state and city officials said. Eric Lipton (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); CITIES (88%); TRENDS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (83%) Labor; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

PERSON: Eric Lipton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



491 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Schwarzenegger Declares Fiscal Crisis in California 

BYLINE:  By NICK MADIGAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 18 

 BODY:
Invoking emergency powers, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger declared a fiscal crisis in California on Thursday and said he would bypass the Legislature to impose $150 million in spending cuts.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger's action follows a series of crises that have highlighted the precarious economic condition of California, whose bond status was cut on Thursday to near junk-bond level by Fitch Ratings, the third ratings agency to lower the state's rating this year. 
 Less than a week ago, Mr. Schwarzenegger reached an accord with the Legislature that tries to resolve past financial problems and prevent future ones. The agreement, announced on Dec. 12, puts on the ballot a bond issue to finance as much as $15 billion in debt, as well as a constitutional spending limit. 
Hailed as the product of bipartisan cooperation and as major victory for Governor Schwarzenegger, a Republican, the accord did not address the state's current budget problems.
The state deficit is projected to reach almost $15 billion next year. The previous governor, Gray Davis, was ousted in a recall election largely on the strength of arguments that he had mishandled the economy. 
Since assuming office last month, Governor Schwarzenegger has focused almost exclusively on state finances.
His first act was to honor a promise that he would repeal Mr. Davis's tripling of vehicle license fees, which were funneled to counties and municipalities to pay for services like fire and police departments and parks. But the Legislature, controlled by Democrats, balked at cutting services and programs elsewhere to replace the lost fees. That meant a sudden and drastic loss of revenue for local governments, wgucg had been promised by Mr. Schwarzenegger in the recall campaign that they would not lose money.
The governor's imposition of his own spending cuts are the result. 
"Since the legislative leadership refuses to act, I will act without them," Mr. Schwarzenegger said at a news conference in Sacramento, in a sharp departure from his conciliatory tone after last week's agreement.
The cuts are expected to come mostly from social service programs. In addition, the University of California and California State University systems will lose some financing, as will the Department of Motor Vehicles and a housing center for migrant farm workers.
Nearly $150 million in current-year spending will be redirected to local governments. 
"We must protect the people in this state and give the cities and counties the money we owe them," said the governor, flanked by law enforcement officers and firefighters. "I support local governments here today just as I did when the mayors of the state visited the Capitol weeks ago." 
But some local officials said they objected last week to the deal between the governor and the Legislature, saying it lacked provisions to cover the money they lost from the vehicle tax repeal, which could amount to $4 billion a year.
Several local officials say they are puzzled by Sacramento's latest effort at money management.
"Fiscal Armageddon has broken out here in California," Mayor Alan Autry of Fresno said in a telephone interview on Thursday afternoon. "This is a glaring and ominous illustration of the dysfunction of the taxation system and the distribution of resources in this state."
Mayor Autry said just 22 percent of the money generated by sales taxes in Fresno was normally returned to the city by the state, and 25 percent of property taxes. He said that as soon as the new governor announced a rollback of the vehicle tax, Fresno lost $5.5 million in money it was expecting and that if the state did not replace the financing the loss wwould total $18 million over the fiscal year.
Jean Ross, executive director of the California Budget Project, a group financed by private foundations that studies the effects of budget decisions, called the governor's strategy unorthodox. 
"It doesn't address the fundamental question, which is how do you pay for a tax cut of over $4 billion a year on an ongoing basis," Ms. Ross said in an interview. "When he campaigned for office, he promised not to borrow, but what he's doing is increasing the level of borrowing. So over the next 15 years the taxpayers are going to be paying for the tax cut, with interest." 
Senator John Burton, a Democrat from San Francisco and president pro tem of the Senate, said in a telephone interview that by rescinding the vehicle tax "the governor put us more than $4 million in the hole, which reduced our bond rating." 
Senator Burton could not say whether the governor's invocation of emergency powers was legal. 
"We don't know," he said. "We re having lawyers look at it right now. We won't do anything until we see the legality of it." 
He suggested that a better approach for the governor would have been continued negotiation, rather than taking his case to the people. "He could have waited and let the Legislature deal with it in January," Senator Burton said. 
"You are elected to go do what you think is right," he went on. "And if people understand what he is doing, I don t think they will be supportive."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor James K. Hahn of Los Angeles praised a decision by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger to order payments to cities and counties. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); BOND ISSUES (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); VEHICLE LICENSING & REGISTRATION (65%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (65%); FARM LABOR (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); MIGRANT WORKERS (50%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Politics and Government; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (93%) Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger; Nick Madigan

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



492 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Dean Lays Out a Domestic Plan to Wake Up His Party 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and DIANE CARDWELL; David M. Halbfinger reported from New Hampshire and Diane Cardwell from New York for this article.

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Dec. 18 

 BODY:
Howard Dean sketched out an expansive "new social compact for working families" on Thursday but did so in a way that immediately put him at odds with the moderate wing of his party over domestic issues.
 Making explicit reference to Bill Clinton's politically groundbreaking declaration in 1996 that the "era of big government is over," Dr. Dean, the former governor of Vermont, called for a new era for Democrats -- "not one where we join Republicans and aim simply to limit the damage they inflict on working families." 
 Dr. Dean also stood by his contention that Saddam Hussein's capture did not make America safer, saying that "the capture of one bad man does not mean that this president and the Washington Democrats can declare victory in the war on terror." 
Dr. Dean's speech had been promoted in advance by his campaign and was intended to pull together all of his domestic stands and chart a course for Democrats after four years of a Bush presidency. 
Dr. Dean said he was not criticizing Mr. Clinton. He said he was not calling for bigger government but an "era of fairer government."
He said that Mr. Clinton had moved the country toward the middle, "but under President Bush the country's moved toward the far right, and if you want to move the country back toward the middle, which I want to do, you've got to talk about issues that other folks are apparently unwilling to talk about."
Dr. Dean proposed a "social contract" built on affordable health insurance and child care; a savings plan to help families prepare for retirement; and a "College Commitment," guaranteeing $10,000 in student financial assistance through a mix of grants and loans, depending on family finances.
But the reference to Mr. Clinton by Dr. Dean escalated the tensions between him and the Clinton wing of the Democratic Party. 
Called for comment, Bruce Reed, a former Clinton adviser who is now president of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council, said, "He took a cheap shot at Clintonism which wasn't appreciated." Mr. Reed added: "You know it just doesn't make any sense. One day Dean says Americans are no better off with Saddam out of power, now he seems to be saying Democrats are better off with Bill Clinton out of power."
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, one of Dr. Dean's rivals for the democratic presidential nomination, denounced the speech in a conference call with reporters, saying that he "could not believe" that Dr. Dean would separate himself from Bill Clinton's record.
"We're not going to lift up America or the Democratic Party by tearing down Bill Clinton's extraordinary record of economic success," Mr. Lieberman said.
Under Dr. Dean's proposals students would have to pay no more than 10 percent of their income to repay college loans, and for no more than 10 years, while those who work as nurses, teachers, police officers, or in other selected jobs would have to pay no more than 7 percent.
He also warned that Americans faced a hidden "Bush tax" in coming years: $52,000 more in each family's share of the national debt, soaring property taxes, and cuts in services by states in fiscal crisis.
"To fight the Bush tax, Democrats need to do more than damage control," Dr. Dean said. "While Bill Clinton said that the era of big government is over, I think we have to enter a new era for the Democratic Party, not one where we join Republicans and aim simply to limit the damage they inflict on working families."
Dr. Dean said the social contract was a two-way street requiring individuals to meet their civic responsibilities, and promised to demand accountability from big business. 
"It's time for corporate America to clean up its act," he said. He also said corporations bear only 10 percent of the tax burden compared with 90 percent for individuals. "That balance needs to change," he said.
Dr. Dean's criticism of the corporate world drew a barb from another rival, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts. "It's really interesting to see Howard Dean campaign against tax shelters and corporate abuse when he spent time as governor creating tax shelters for companies like Enron," Mr. Kerry said, referring to reports that, as governor, Dr. Dean gave tax breaks to insurance companies, including an Enron subsidiary, that set up in Vermont.
Dr. Dean also fired back at his Democratic rivals, who had attacked him three days running for saying America was made no safer by the capture of Saddam Hussein. He skewered the "Washington politics-as-usual club," which he said had supported the Iraq war when it was popular and was paying the price.
Continuing to insist that America had not been made secure, Dr. Dean, whose antiwar stance has propelled him to the top of the polls in states with early voting, cited the threats posed by stateless terrorists, loose nuclear materials and porous borders and seaports.
"We are no safer today than we were the day the planes struck at the World Trade Center," he declared.
"I think the Democratic Party has to offer a clear alternative to the American people," Dr. Dean said. 
The dispute over Dr. Dean's views on Iraq comes in a week when some of his own statements have come back to haunt him.
Speaking on his campaign plane Tuesday night, he was asked about a radio interview in which he had raised a "most interesting theory" -- that the Bush administration had been warned by Saudi Arabia before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The president on Monday called this an "absurd insinuation."
Dr. Dean said he had only been answering a question about the "theory" and remarked that the president and vice president had put forward assertions last year about the threat to the United States from Iraq.
"There were all these theories that they mentioned," he told reporters Tuesday. "Many of them turned out not to be true. The difference is that I acknowledged that I did not believe the theory I was putting out."
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, who is locked in a tight battle with Dr. Dean in Iowa, called his rival's statement about Mr. Hussein's capture "ludicrous." In a conference call with reporters, he added that it was "absolutely wrong and belies a lack of experience in foreign policy in dealing with a lot of these issues."
As for Dr. Dean's repeating theories that he disavows, Mr. Gephardt said, "If it's untrue, you shouldn't be saying it." He added that "in a time of terrorism," voters would stick with the president "if they have doubts about the experience and the ability, the steady hands, of the alternative."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Howard Dean at a news conference yesterday after a speech at a public library in Manchester, N.H. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); TERRORISM (75%); WAR ON TERROR (75%); GOVERNORS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Terrorism; United States International Relations

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); JOE LIEBERMAN (55%) Howard (Dr) Dean; Bill Clinton; Saddam Hussein; David M Halbfinger; Diane Cardwell

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2003 



493 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1749 words

HEADLINE: How to Save the World? Treat It Like a Business 

BYLINE:  By EMILY EAKIN 

 BODY:
When J. B. Schramm talks about getting poor kids into college, he sounds less like a bleeding heart than a corporate shark pitching a moneymaking scheme. He talks about market opportunities, about talent that is "undervalued by the marketplace" and "economic muscle that's not being harnessed."
 Mr. Schramm, a divinity school graduate, is the founder of College Summit, an organization in Washington that helps low-income high school students with B and C averages, who might not otherwise continue their educations, apply to college. As schooled in the science -- and lingo -- of market domination as any well-trained M.B.A., he wants to eliminate what he calls the college "market gap" and put a dent in the poverty rate at the same time. And not just in his community but in the nation at large. 
 "A kid who enrolls in college over the course of his life contributes $300,000 more in federal taxes alone and a million more in lifetime earnings," Mr. Schramm explained. "And getting that kid who's the first in his family to go to college effectively ends poverty in that family. That's irreversible progress." 
The work is slow going and unglamorous. It has not made him famous or rich. But as faith in the ability of government and private philanthropy to solve social problems diminishes, unconventional do-gooders like Mr. Schramm, who combine market savvy and a social conscience with an overweening ambition to see their ideas become part of the cultural bedrock, belong to an important global trend.
If Mother Teresa, who won a Nobel Peace Prize for her charitable work with the poor and the sick, embodies the old way of treating social problems (compassion and Band-Aids), then big thinking, solution-minded pragmatists like Mr. Schramm represent the new. According to the theory emerging from some of the nation's top business schools, they belong to a powerful and growing breed of innovator: the social entrepreneur. 
"We need innovative solutions to social problems, and increasingly societies are realizing that private citizens, acting in entrepreneurial ways, blending business tools with relevant social expertise, are the best hope for finding those solutions," said J. Gregory Dees, director of the Center for the Advancement of Social Entrepreneurship at the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University and a leading expert in the budding field. "These citizens are social entrepreneurs." 
In New York City there is Sara Horowitz, a lawyer and labor activist, who started Working Today, a group that provides low-cost health insurance to freelancers, who typically have little access to benefits but who now make up nearly a thirdof the labor force. Better known are Wendy Kopp, the founder of Teach for America, which hires young graduates from top colleges to teach in deprived urban and rural schools; Paul Farmer, a doctor who is transforming global health-care policy toward the indigent; and Muhammad Yunus, a Bangladeshi economist who revolutionized the concept of micro-credit, making millions of successful small loans to poor people through his Grameen Bank. 
William Drayton, the founder of Ashoka, an organization that since 1981 has provided funds and intellectual support to just such citizens around the world, has perhaps done more than anyone to encourage the trend. And he speaks of it with near revolutionary fervor. Rattling off impressive statistics about the growth of nonprofit and citizen groups in the last two decades, he declares social entrepreneurship to be "the most important historical force at work today," adding, "The social half of society has tipped: it has become as entrepreneurial and competitive as the business half of society, and the consequences are extremely dramatic." 
Given the flurry of interest in the subject at business schools, that may prove not to be such an exaggeration. In 1989, when Mr. Dees, then a professor at the Harvard Business School, first proposed a course in social entrepreneurship, he was flatly turned down. "The reaction was very cool," he recalled. "I was cautioned not to do that."
But by the mid-1990's the attitude on campus had changed. Harvard created an initiative in social entrepreneurship, and Mr. Dees taught what he thinks may have been the first course on the topic in an American business school. 
Today there are similar initiatives at Columbia, Stanford, Duke and Yale, and the Web site of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (aacsb.edu), an international accrediting agency, lists 28 other schools that say they have programs in social entrepreneurship. Last spring Stanford started the first academic journal dedicated to the subject: The Stanford Social Innovation Review. And in November the Said Business School at Oxford University inaugurated the Skoll Center for Social Entrepreneurship, named for Jeff Skoll, the former president of e-Bay and a major financial backer. 
While the activities of some social entrepreneurs and their organizations have received news media attention, the press has been slow to pick up on the larger phenomenon. But that, too, is beginning to change. The January issue of Fast Company features the winners of that magazine's first annual Social Capitalists Awards: 20 organizations that are "using the disciplines of the corporate world to tackle daunting social problems." And in February Oxford University Press will publish "How to Change the World: Social Entrepreneurship and the Power of New Ideas," by David Bornstein, a journalist whose specialty is social innovation. 
His first book, "The Price of a Dream" (Simon & Schuster, 1996), recounted Mr. Yunus's successful experiment with micro-credit and eventually led him to Mr. Drayton, whom he calls "the social entrepreneur of social entrepreneurship." For his new book Mr. Bornstein interviewed 100 social entrepreneurs in a dozen countries and ended up using 8 as case studies: Mr. Drayton and Mr. Schramm, along with those from other countries, like Fabio Rosa, a Brazilian engineer who hit on a strategy to provide cheap electricity to that country's rural farmers. 
Like Mr. Drayton, Mr. Bornstein cites the rise of citizen organizations around the world as a crucial development: more than a million in India, 12,000 in Slovakia, 400,000 in Brazil. Even in the United States, where there is a strong tradition of such groups, he notes, the number registered with the Internal Revenue Service jumped 60 percent between 1989 and 1998, to 734,000. 
But such activity, he argues, is merely the backdrop against which social entrepreneurship should be viewed. Many nonprofit groups have incorporated smart business tactics -- like having a profit arm -- into their daily operations, he points out. (And many business schools emphasize such strategies in their courses.) But this alone does not mean that there is a social entrepreneur at the helm. 
True social entrepreneurs are "transformative forces," he writes: "People with new ideas to address major problems who are so relentless in the pursuit of their visions that they will not give up until they have spread their ideas everywhere." 
By that definition such people have always been around. Mr. Bornstein devotes a chapter to Florence Nightingale, whose crusade to introduce hygiene and sanitation standards in Victorian hospitals led to dramatic declines in mortality. And Mr. Drayton cites William Lloyd Garrison, the 19th-century abolitionist leader. But only recently, they argue, have social conditions enabled such innovative "change makers" to succeed in significant numbers.
Well into the 18th century, concepts like innovation and competition hardly existed, even in the business sector. Trades were frequently controlled by guilds that forbade competition, governments awarded monopolies and subsidies at whim, and a thicket of regressive laws explicitly discouraged innovation. 
By 1800, however, the French economist Jean-Baptiste Say, a free-market enthusiast who translated Adam Smith's "Wealth of Nations," had designated a new term for the kind of businessman who was reinventing the economy: entrepreneur, whom he defined as someone "who shifts economic resources out of an area of lower and into an area of higher productivity and greater yield." 
While the business world was being transformed, becoming innovative and competitive, the social sector failed to follow suit. It didn't need to. As Mr. Drayton succinctly put it, "Government made it unnecessary." As long as states were able to take care of social services -- like schools, hospitals, public transportation and garbage removal -- there were few incentives for private citizens to compete for the tasks.
Today, however, that is clearly no longer the case. In democratic societies the welfare net is fraying. And elsewhere in the world, communist and authoritarian regimes have collapsed, giving ordinary citizens the freedom and impetus to make big social changes. It doesn't hurt, Mr. Bornstein adds, that per capita income in free-market countries increased by several hundred percent in the 20th century, allowing more people to opt for careers in lower-paying, nonprofit work. Or that life spans have increased, along with literacy and education rates and access to information. As he puts it, "citizens have become acutely conscious of environmental destruction, entrenched poverty, health catastrophes, human-rights abuses, failing education systems and escalating violence," and more of them "have the freedom, time, wealth, health, exposure, social mobility and confidence" to do something about it. 
Social entrepreneurship sounds wonderful. Listening to Mr. Drayton, for example, it is easy to feel almost giddy. "This is going at a historic rate of speed that is unprecedented," he insists. "The agricultural revolution took 12,000 years. This has takentwo and a half decades."
But while welcoming the trend, some experts caution against viewing social entrepreneurship as a panacea. "We see a lot of major successes in social entrepreneurship, and we're seeing more space for it in some societies," said the economist Jeffrey D. Sachs, director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University. "But we cannot simply rely on social entrepreneurship for what the government needs to do. We also have an enormously efficient private sector. We shouldn't dismiss the importance of the profit motive in generating a lot of things we count on as basic to our life. The social sector must work alongside the public and private sectors."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The cease-fire to allow for child vaccinations during El Salvador's civil war was based on the global health-care ideas of social entrepreneurs. (Photo by Balazar/Unicef, 1985); William Drayton, founder of Ashoka, an organization that gives funds and professional support to social entrepreneurs around the world. (Photo by Elizabeth Lippman for The New York Times)(pg. B9) Drawing (Drawing by Rafal Olbinski)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (88%); TRENDS (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); RURAL SCHOOLS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); CELEBRITIES (70%); POVERTY RATES (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); PHILANTHROPY (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (63%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HEALTH INSURANCE; SMALL BUSINESS; CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (59%) COLLEGE SUMMIT (ORGN); WORKING TODAY (ORGN); TEACH FOR AMERICA (ORGN); ASHOKA (ORGN) 

PERSON: EAKIN, EMILY; SCHRAMM, J B; HOROWITZ, SARA; KOPP, WENDY; FARMER, PAUL (DR); EAKIN, EMILY; YUNUS, MUHAMMAD; DRAYTON, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%) ; BANGLADESH

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003 



494 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: New Report Advocates Subway Line For East Side 

BYLINE:  By PAUL von ZIELBAUER

 BODY:
An influential regional planning group issued a study yesterday that focused on the economic benefits of building a Second Avenue subway line while criticizing another study, released last month, that played down the relative worth of building it.
 Standing in front of City Hall yesterday morning, several prominent city, state and Congressional Democrats made it clear that they trusted the new study, by the Regional Plan Association, more than last month's more critical report by the Partnership for New York City, a group representing some of the city's largest employers. 
 "The partnership is a partnership with the wrong people if they're not with us," said Representative Charles B. Rangel of Harlem, long an advocate for a subway line that would connect part of his district with Chinatown. "I can't wait to have them at the next press conference to explain this misunderstanding." 
Beside Representative Rangel were Sheldon Silver, the State Assembly speaker; Gifford Miller, the City Council speaker; and Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, whose district includes the Upper East Side.
In its November study, the partnership said a Second Avenue subway would take 17 years to build and cost nearly $2.7 billion more than the economic development benefits it would create. The study, completed for the partnership by independent consultants, advocated focusing on other large projects, like building a transit hub in Lower Manhattan, extending the No. 7 subway line or relocating Pennsylvania Station.
The Regional Plan Association's study disputed those findings. It said the subway project could be completed in 12 years, not 17, and would create 7 million square feet of commercial development, not the 3.5 million the partnership's study forecast. The association also calculated nearly $1.3 billion in saved time and productivity resulting from a less crowded Lexington Avenue subway line; the partnership estimated a $971 million savings.
"No other project will bring more people to the Lower East Side than the Second Avenue subway," Mr. Silver said yesterday, referring to his own Assembly district. "It's time to get on with it."
Kathryn S. Wylde, the partnership's president, acknowledged in an interview that it might make economic sense to build a part of the proposed subway line, but that other projects would create more development and help more people.
"It's great to advocate for these improvements," she said. "Somebody's got to figure out how to pay for them."
Referring to Mr. Rangel, Mr. Silver and the other Democrats who are against her group's recommendations, Ms. Wylde added: "They're making a political case for the Second Avenue subway. We're looking at the ridership of the future, which doesn't have a voice to speak for it." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (76%); CAROLYN MALONEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003 



495 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Libya to Dismantle Arms Programs, Bush Says
President Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain announced that Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, had agreed to give up all of his nuclear, chemical and biological weapons programs. A1

Finding an Iraqi Informant
Army officers say the man who led American Special Operations forces to Saddam Hussein's hideaway, a veteran of Mr. Hussein's Special Security Organization, probably knew the former leader's whereabouts at any given moment, but he was not on anyone's list of top fugitives. A1

L. Paul Bremer III, the highest American official in Iraq, acknowledged that a convoy he was traveling in two weeks ago had been attacked. Neither he nor anyone else in the convoy, traveling in Baghdad, was hurt. A8

Navy Seizes Boat Tied to Qaeda
The United States Navy seized two tons of hashish and detained three men it said had ties to Al Qaeda when it halted and boarded a boat in the Persian Gulf. A3

Opposition to Border Plan
Palestinians say that they would oppose any attempt by Israel to establish a unilateral border between the Middle East antagonists. A6

Germany Accepts Tax Cuts
Germany capped a nine-month campaign to unclog its economy, as both houses of the Parliament voted to adopt a package of tax cuts and looser employment laws. A3

Mars Probe in Final Phase
A landing craft separated from the Mars Express spaceship and began maneuvers to orbit Mars, putting Europe's first attempt to land an unmanned probe on Mars into its final phase. A5

NATIONAL A12-16

Jury Hears Testimony In Sniper Sentencing Phase
Seven people testified in the sentencing deliberations for Lee Malvo, the teenager who was convicted of two counts of capital murder for killing Linda Franklin in last fall's sniper shootings in the Washington area. The two-hour session left most of the jurors in tears. A12

Delay in Kobe Bryant Case
The judge in the Kobe Bryant rape case sent witnesses home and met privately with defense lawyers who want access to the medical history of his accuser. A15

Lawmakers Help Home First
A House spending bill is stuffed with an estimated 7,000 special interest provisions, including a $225,000 appropriation for a swimming pool in the hometown of Representative Jim Gibbons, Republican of Nevada. A1

Anguish for Thurmond Family
The emergence of Essie Mae Washington-Williams, the mixed-race daughter of Strom Thurmond has members of Mr. Thurmond's sprawling family, a well-connected dynasty in South Carolina, struggling with a new reality. A1

Groups Adjust to New Ad Rules
Groups running issue advertisements in Iowa say they are employing techniques to adjust to new restriction on soft money. A14

Beliefs A16

OBITUARIES B22

SCIENCE/HEALTH

C.D.C. Issues Flu Guidelines
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention offered advice to help people decide when to seek medical care for influenza. A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

After Months of Debate, Tower's Design Is Unveiled
A model of the first tower of the new World Trade Center was unveiled. The model revealed a torqued and tapering skyscraper that rises some 70 stories and might be the world's tallest building upon completion. A1

Embattled Governor Speaks
Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut said he had obeyed state laws and was determined to serve out his term. It was his first response to questions since his admission that he accepted free work on his private cottage by companies doing business with the state. B1

Fears of Holiday Terrorism
Federal law enforcement officials issued new warnings to their counterparts in New York and other large American cities about the possibility that terrorists might try to strike during the holiday season. B4

Priests Challenge Cardinal
Seventy-four priests of the Archdiocese of New York assailed Cardinal Edward M. Egan for abandoning their brother priests accused of sexual abuse and called for a meeting. B2

Neediest Cases B3

ARTS & IDEAS B7-21

Pope Views 'The Passion'
Pope John Paul II saw "The Passion of Christ," Mel Gibson's biblical epic on the Crucifixion, and told his secretary that the film was an accurate portrayal of Jesus' death, a church official said. B20

SPORTS D1-7

St. John's Fires Mike Jarvis
St. John's fired basketball coach Mike Jarvis. He will be replaced in the interim with the associate head coach Kevin Clark. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Ruling Against Record Firms
The recording industry cannot use legal shortcuts to force Internet companies to disclose the names of people who trade music online, a federal appeals court in Washington ruled. A1

Dairy Giant Nearly Bankrupt
Parmalat, the Italian dairy and food giant, slid to the brink of insolvency after the company disclosed that a bank account that supposedly held nearly $5 billion did not exist. C1

News Corp. Deal Approved
The F.C.C.conditionally approved the News Corporation's acquisition of Hughes Electronics, removing the final obstacle to a $6.6 billion media mega-merger. C1

Janus Offers Refund
Janus Capital said it would refund $31.5 million to investors because of improper trading in its mutual funds and that it would make several governance changes. C2

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Lessons of Libya; rising above ground zero; religious symbols in France.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B14
TV Listings B21
Crossword B19
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (88%); JURY TRIALS (86%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (86%); SENTENCING (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NAVIES (77%); ARMIES (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); SPACECRAFT (69%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (69%); SPACE EXPLORATION (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (68%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (68%); CANNABIS (68%); WITNESSES (68%); MURDER (68%); CAPITAL CRIMES (68%); LAWYERS (66%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); TONY BLAIR (73%); JIM GIBBONS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KOBE BRYANT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) MARS (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (76%) UNITED STATES (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAQ (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GULF STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003 



496 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: The Long-Lost Cousins of the Middle Class 

BYLINE:  By Annette Lareau; Annette Lareau, professor of sociology at Temple University, is author of "Unequal Childhoods: Class, Race and Family Life."

 BODY:
As parents and children around the countrygather with relatives to celebrate the holidays, our national conversation often focuses on common experiences. Families from different economic backgrounds repeat rituals of shopping, opening gifts and sharing meals. If middle-class people do pause to recognize the differences in the way we celebrate the season, they often emphasize what poor and working-class children may be missing. Will they have enough toys under the tree? Will their holiday feast be bountiful?
 What these people fail to realize is that their own children could benefit from some of what children from low-income families experience. For during this holiday season, poor and working-class children will celebrate with relatives who know them because they share daily pleasures and disappointments. They talk on the phone frequently and visit during the week. 
 For many working-class and poor families, extended-family visits are the organizing principle of social life. According to the 2002 General Social Survey by the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago, 41 percent of poor and working-class people spend a social evening with their relatives often, from once a week to as much as every day.
For many middle-class children, however, visits with relatives are infrequent. Instead of spending time with aunts, uncles and cousins, hectic schedules of soccer games, piano lessons, basketball practice and other activities are the organizing force of daily life. According to the General Social Survey, about half of middle-class people see their relatives for social evenings once a month or less. Clearly, some have moved away from their relatives or, with today's smaller families, simply have fewer cousins. But for many, it's a matter of not having the time.
In my own research, I have watched parents rush home from work, urge children to hurry up and change into a sports uniform, race to get one child to a baseball practice at 6:45 and another child to a soccer game at 7:15, all the while contending with tired younger siblings who must trail along. Weekends can mean traveling far from home to compete in tournaments. Indeed, this situation is probably familiar to many middle-class parents.
As a result, their children are deprived of the pleasure -- and sometimes the burden -- of spending time interacting with their extended families. They do not share food, rides or companionship with their cousins. They are not routinely disciplined by their aunts and grandparents. They do not see their cousins so often that they come to be like brothers or sisters. Instead, they see their relatives only in their holiday clothes, using their holiday manners, and maintaining their holiday style of interacting. 
There are other drawbacks. The demands of many of these so-called leisure activities are akin to the rigors of school, as children are given directives, told to hush, evaluated publicly and instructed in how to improve their performance. On the other hand, children with fewer formal activities tend to have less pressure placed on performance and more time for informal play and simply being a child. 
There are undeniable advantages for children born into the middle class, especially when it comes to educational success, health care and housing. But while these benefits are powerful, and the costs of being poor and working-class are formidable, we still make a mistake when we presume that being middle class is uniformly better.
Social class has an invisible, but potent, impact on aspects of American life. Too often, the better-off view those who have less than them only in terms of what they can offer, or even teach, the poor. During this holiday season, it would do many Americans good to consider what they can learn from the poor and working class about family, connection and taking time to be. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (92%); FAMILY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (86%); CHRISTMAS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (73%); BASEBALL (72%); TRENDS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); SOCCER (65%); BASKETBALL (65%); TOURNAMENTS (65%) Christmas; Children and Youth; Families and Family Life; United States Economy; Social Conditions and Trends; Christmas

ORGANIZATION: TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%) Temple University

PERSON: Annette (Prof) Lareau

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003 



497 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: More Than Mere Partners; 
By Example, Lesbian Couple Try to State Case for Marriage

BYLINE:  By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: BUTLER, N.J., Dec. 19 

 BODY:
From the above-ground pool and plastic creche on the front lawn to the Norman Rockwell figurines in the beige-on-brown living room, there is nothing flamboyant about the Kilian-Meneghin household. The couple -- a soft-spoken parish secretary and a nerdy Web administrator inseparable since high school -- have a pair of exceedingly polite children, an elderly cat named Spot and two well-maintained Saturns in the driveway. By most standards, the family is as all-American and unremarkable as they come.
 But one thing sets the parents of Josh and Sarah apart from their neighbors in this bastion of middle-class propriety about 30 miles west of Manhattan. Maureen Kilian and Cindy Meneghin are lesbians. They are also among seven plaintiffs in a lawsuit that has turned New Jersey into the next battleground in the war over same-sex marriage. 
 In a notice of appeal that is to be filed on Monday before the state's appellate court -- in a case that seems likely to be headed to the New Jersey Supreme Court -- the couple are seeking the rights and responsibilities that go along with government-sanctioned matrimony. 
"We just want to go to town hall and pay $28 for a marriage license," said Ms. Meneghin, presiding over the dinner table as her children picked at the roast chicken, corn niblets and broccoli spears on their plates. "Is that so much to ask?" 
Apparently so. From Gov. James E. McGreevey, a liberal Democrat, to conservative lobbying groups like the League of American Families, the yearnings of the Kilian-Meneghins represent a challenge to the traditional notion of marriage. Those opposed to the idea usually cite their deeply moral and religious feelings on the subject.
No matter which side is taken, this is a combustible issue that many politicians from both major parties seem to wish would just go away.
The New Jersey Legislature is expected to approve two bills that would provide some domestic partner benefits to same-sex couples. Despite his opposition to same-sex marriage, Governor McGreevey has said he would sign any bill recognizing some tax, property and insurance benefits for same-sex couples.
But Ms. Meneghin and Ms. Kilian want something more than a patchwork of state-sponsored protections. After three decades together, they are weary of the term "partner" and sick of checking the single box on credit card applications.
More than anything, they want the security of spousal inheritance rights so that if one of them dies, the other can remain in their home without an onerous payout to the Internal Revenue Service. 
"We are good citizens, we pay our taxes and we are caring parents -- but we don't have the same equality as other Americans," Ms. Kilian said. "We're tired of having to explain our relationship. When you say you're married, everyone understands that."
Recent polls show that a majority of Americans remain wary of same-sex marriage, with 59 percent opposing gay unions, according to the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press. But Ms. Meneghin, Ms. Kilian and their children believe they could win the hearts and minds of matrimony traditionalists if the doubters could just come to dinner, see the intensity of their familial bond and, frankly, observe the utter normalcy that marks their suburban, workaday lives.
"We're just so regular," said Ms. Kilian, who, like her partner, is 46. 
Phyllis Miller, Ms. Meneghin's boss at Montclair State University, put it more bluntly. "They're worse than Ozzie and Harriet," said Ms. Miller, the college's director of communications. "Whenever I go into her office, all Cindy talks about is her kids; what they did in church, what they bought at Toys 'R' Us. They're the most boring couple I've ever met." 
Here in Butler, a tight-knit community of about 7,400 in northeast Morris County, the Kilian-Meneghin household is widely known and seemingly accepted. School officials cherish their zealous participation in after-school activities, and neighborhood parents eagerly send their children to the plain cream colonial on High Street known for its well-supervised pool parties and hot chocolate in winter.
"Whenever my daughter goes up to their house, I know I'm leaving her in a warm, caring environment," said Annie Schear, whose daughter, Juliette, is a playmate of Sarah's. "To me, the fact that they are two women is a nonissue."
Joshua, 11, and Sarah, 9, who differentiate the women with "mommy" and "mama," have yet to experience any teasing over the nature of their unconventional family. The children, who use Kilian-Meneghin as their last name, tag along to court appearances and news conferences, eagerly stepping up to the microphones and staring straight into the television cameras.
"Everyone knows we're a fun family," Joshua said when asked what friends think about his home life.
After dinner one recent evening, with their children sitting in rapt attention, the women told the tale of a romance both mundane and astonishing. It was September 1973, junior year at De Paul, a Catholic high school in Wayne, when Ms. Kilian's family moved to Butler from the Bronx. Ms. Meneghin was confident, outgoing and inexplicably drawn to the quiet girl with the long brown hair. When Maureen came down with mononucleosis in their senior year, Cindy took over her homework every day and sat with her until late at night. A few months later they exchanged rings. They never used the "L" word. All they knew is that they wanted to be together. 
They attended the same college, shared an apartment and then spent seven years working at Panasonic's headquarters in Secaucus.
Although the families of both women were initially unhappy with their relationship, they have become stalwart defenders of gay marriage. "I think it's a long time coming," said Larry Kilian, Maureen's 87-year-old father. "What amazes me is that in heterosexual marriages, they're all breaking up and these two are still together."
Mr. Kilian knows a thing or two about marriage. For decades, he led the marriage preparation committee at St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church, advising couples-to-be on the practicalities and pitfalls of matrimony. 
Mindful of society's antipathy toward gays and lesbians, Ms. Kilian and Ms. Meneghin waited 18 years to have children and then worked hard to avoid any potential backlash. Two years before Ms. Meneghin visited a sperm bank and became pregnant with Josh, the couple made a trip to Richard Butler Elementary School to test attitudes about same-sex parenthood. The principal, Ms. Meneghin recalls, did not bat an eye. "If she had not responded so favorably, we would have moved to another town," she said. 
The reaction was not as favorable at St. Mary's, where the families of both women had long been active members. When Ms. Meneghin revealed her plans for motherhood, the priest, she said, blanched and insisted that the child would have to be baptized at a separate, and not the usual public, service.
"I told him, 'I'm sorry, I can't let you hurt my child,' " she recalls saying. After much hand-wringing, the couple left the congregation and joined an Episcopal church in a town 30 minutes away. Three years later, Ms. Kilian became pregnant with Sarah. 
Ms. Meneghin and Ms. Kilian bought a house, built an extension and raised a family. Like many long-term couples, they developed a habit of finishing each other's sentences.
"We're in debt up to our noses," Ms. Kilian said.
"We're true Americans," Ms. Meneghin added.
"We do our part to keep the economy going," Ms. Kilian said.
"Sorry, kids, you will not be inheriting a lot of money," Ms. Meneghin said.
But the family's sense of security crumbled the day Ms. Meneghin was taken to the hospital with what turned out to be meningitis. When Ms. Kilian tried to follow the stretcher into the emergency room, a hospital official stopped her. "Family only," she was told.
It was, both women said, a traumatic, eye-opening experience. When Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, a New York gay rights organization, was seeking plaintiffs for their lawsuit, the couple jumped at the opportunity.
"If I had been able to say, 'We're married,' they would have understood," Ms. Kilian said. "I think Americans can appreciate that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Kilian-Meneghins attended a Sunday service this month at their Episcopal church. From left, Sarah, 9, Joshua, 11, Maureen Kilian and Cindy Meneghin.; Cindy Meneghin, left, Maureen Kilian, and daughter Sarah. The New Jersey couple have been together for three decades. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); COHABITATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (88%); FAMILY (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); LITIGATION (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); LOBBYING (72%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POLITICS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); LICENSES & PERMITS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); APPROVALS (61%); TAX AUTHORITIES (60%); RELIGION (50%) Marriages; Suits and Litigation; Homosexuality

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (55%)

PERSON: Andrew Jacobs; Maureen Kilian; Cindy Meneghin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Butler (NJ); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003 



498 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Dow and S.&P. Index Advance for 4th Week in Row

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index notched a fourth consecutive week of advances after a day of mixed trading yesterday, when optimistic investors started to wonder whether stock prices were getting a bit high.
 Trading was choppy on a day of little economic news and because of yesterday's so-called quadruple witching, the quarterly expiration of index futures and options as well as individual stock futures and options. 
 "It's been an amazing week, and we're trying to add to some of the gains," said Peter Dunay, chief market strategist at Wall Street Access, a New York-based brokerage firm. He cited better-than-expected reports this week that pointed to strong manufacturing and low inflation. 
 "The economics are getting so much attention that as long as they stay positive" investors are looking to buy, Mr. Dunay said.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 30.14 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 10,278.22, after a three-day gain of 225 points. The blue-chip average finished the day at the highest level since May 17, 2002, when it stood at 10,353.08.
 But the broader market finished lower. The Nasdaq composite index declined 5.16 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,951.02, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.52 point, less than 0.1 percent, to 1,088.66.
 For the week, the Dow advanced 2.4 percent, the Nasdaq edged up 0.1 percent and the S.&P. rose 1.4 percent. The Dow and S.&P.'s four-week winning streak was the longest since the period ended Sept. 5; for the Nasdaq, it was the third winning week in four.
 Stocks traded mostly higher for much of the morning before losing some momentum in the afternoon. Traders said rumors of a terrorist threat in New York City pressured the market, even though a city police spokesman said there was no "credible intelligence pointing to a specific or imminent terrorist threat."
 Peter Cardillo, president and chief strategist of Global Partner Securities Inc., said, "The market did come in a little bit, but what we're seeing here is a normal quadruple-witching day."
 "As far as this year," he said, "we probably have approached the high end of a trading range. It probably will be a give and take from now until the end of the year."
 Stocks have pushed higher in recent days on growing investor confidence. Analysts worry, however, that much of the market advance might be coming more on year-end seasonal factors as investors put some of their year-end dividends and bonuses to work.
 Mr. Dunay said some investors might be positioning themselves before the holiday next week, when trading is expected to be light.
 "Most investors are thrilled to close right here and say, 'Yeah, the market is going to go up this year after three years of declines,"' he said.
 Alcoa, the aluminum producer that is a component of the Dow, climbed 92 cents, to $37.30, after Morgan Stanley raised the rating to overweight from equal weight.
 Red Hat jumped $3.21, to $17.49, after the company, which provides of Linux-based operating systems, reported third-quarter earnings that met expectations; the company also said it was acquiring Sistina Software in a $31 million stock deal.
 Losers included two other components of the Dow -- McDonald's, which fell 51 cents, to $24.30, and Procter & Gamble, which declined $1.79, to $97.52.
 Paychex, which provides payroll services to small businesses, dropped $2.46, to $36.52, after Wachovia Securities lowered the rating to market perform from outperform.
 Treasury bond prices fell yesterday. The 10-year Treasury note declined 2/32, to a price of 10029/32. The note's yield was unchanged at 4.13 percent.
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond dropped 8/32, to 1063/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, edged up to 4.96 percent from 4.94 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FUTURES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); POLICE FORCES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); DIVIDENDS (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (62%); TERRORISM (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003 



499 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Report Faults China's Policy Since It Joined Trade Group

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19 

 BODY:
China has failed to live up to many of the promises it made when it joined the World Trade Organization, and it continues to maintain formidable trade barriers, unfair subsidies for its domestic producers, and uneven enforcement of regulations, according to a report issued late Thursday by the Bush administration.
 With the trade deficit with China at a record $13.5 billion, Republican and Democratic lawmakers have been pressing for tough action to ensure that China plays by the global trade rules of the World Trade Organization, which it joined two years ago. 
 By confirming some of the harsher criticisms by Congressional figures, the report is bound to rekindle the growing demand in Congress to tame what lawmakers say is China's assault on the American market.
 "The shortcomings in China's W.T.O. implementation are noteworthy," Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, wrote in the report. 
 With trade fast becoming crucial to good relations between the United States and China, several lawmakers said the report was important for fixing responsibility on China. 
 Representative James A. Leach, Republican of Iowa and a member of the International Relations Committee, said that "it is principally up to China" to improve trade relations.
 "We want free trade to work and they, in the abstract, do, too. But there is an equity or fairness issue that is measurable, and right now the measurements for China are coming up short," Mr. Leach said in a telephone interview.
 The report found that despite some improvement, China is undercutting many United States industries by using tax policies to favor its own producers. The report also found trade barriers to United States agriculture and services and a poor record of preventing the sales of counterfeit film, music, software and other products protected as intellectual property.
 China has one year to make a series of concessions under terms of its membership in the W.T.O.
 "China cheats," said Senator Lindsay Graham, Republican of South Carolina. "China steals markets, it doesn't earn them."
 The administration has taken several steps recently to answer these criticisms. The Commerce Department has moved to put import quotas on selected Chinese textiles -- knitted fabrics, dressing gowns, robes and bras -- and impose tariffs on television sets. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said that in his view the report was especially damning since it came from an administration he said had been "treating China with kid gloves."
 "This shows you how bad the situation is," he said in a telephone interview. "China wants all the benefits of membership in the world economy, but few of the responsibilities."
 Mr. Schumer is the co-sponsor with Mr. Graham of legislation meant to rectify another problem cited in the China trade debate: China's refusal to float its currency, a stance that helps keep prices low for its exports to the United States. The lawmakers are asking Congress to pass legislation that would impose an across-the-board tariff of 27.5 percent on all Chinese goods if the Chinese refuse to float their currency.
 Lawmakers point out that the problem of unfair trading practices extends beyond manufacturing and agriculture -- where China has the advantage of cheap labor -- to intellectual property where the United States has the advantage. 
 But China continues to be a haven for pirated copies of copyrighted material. The report found "rampant piracy of film, music, publishing and software products, infringement of pharmaceutical, chemical, information technology and other patents, and counterfeiting of consumer goods, electrical equipment, automotive parts and industrial products."
 Agriculture was meant to be one of the biggest sources of American exports to China, meeting the demands of the rapidly growing middle class there with huge shipments of grain and meat. And while soybean exports reached a record $1.2 billion and cotton exports to China increased by nearly 500 percent, the report complained of China's "apparent use of subsidies" to promote its agricultural exports.
 (The United States spends an average $19 billion each year on agricultural subsidies, but only a small portion is paid directly for exports. Recent global trade talks collapsed in large part over poor nations demanding that richer nations reduce their agricultural subsidies.)
 To quiet concern about trade barriers in the automobile industry, China agreed last month to allow the United States' Big Three automakers to send it about 15,000 cars and trucks over the next couple of years as well as more than $1 billion in parts from General Motors.
 Thereport noted, however, that "in many instances, China has sought to deflect attention from its inadequate implementation" by making temporary changes to muffle criticism abroad. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); SLEEPWEAR & LOUNGEWEAR (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); TAX LAW (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (68%); TEXTILES (65%); FABRICS (60%); COUNTERFEITING (50%) International Trade and World Market; Records and Achievements; Agriculture; Currency; Copyrights; International Trade and World Market; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (56%) Elizabeth Becker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%) China; United States

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003 



500 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 57 words

HEADLINE: Corrections 

 BODY:
 An article on Thursday about Andrea Fergus, a mother of six children who attends Brooklyn College and received help from Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens, a beneficiary of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, misstated her employment situation. She works part time as a student aide at the college; she is not unemployed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (87%); CHARITIES (87%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: Brooklyn College (Cuny)

PERSON: Andrea Fergus

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003 



501 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Irregularities Push Parmalat Closer To Insolvency

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: PARMA, Italy, Dec. 19 

 BODY:
Parmalat, the Italian dairy and food giant, slid to the brink of insolvency on Friday after the company disclosed that a bank account that supposedly held nearly $5 billion of its money did not exist. 
 Parmalat said that Bank of America had told one of its auditors, Grant Thornton, on Wednesday that a document showing that a Parmalat finance unit in Cayman Islands had an account of 3.95 billion euros ($4.9 billion) was a fake. A Bank of America spokeswoman in London declined to comment. 
 The crisis at Parmalat, which has been escalating in recent weeks, now dwarfs accounting problems that have roiled European companies like Royal Ahold of the Netherlands, Vivendi Universal of France and Elan of Ireland. Such scandals have demonstrated that European accounting standards and regulation can be susceptible to Enron-like problems. The Parmalat case, and its implication that a fraud has been committed, will be certain to provoke debate about the failure of European regulators and banks to ask questions sooner. 
 After a board meeting late Friday that was called by Enrico Bondi, the new chairman, Parmalat issued a short statement saying that it would provide information to judicial authorities.
 It did not address plans for Parmalat or the prospect of bankruptcy. But for a company that narrowly avoided defaulting on $183 million in debt just days ago, the prospect of missing $4.9 billion -- more than half its revenue last year -- makes bankruptcy seemingly inevitable.
 There are a number of bankruptcy options under Italian law, including liquidation. But the most likely outcome for Parmalat would be a protection from creditors under the supervision of the Industry Ministry.
 This would allow the company -- best known for its long-life milk but also the owner of Archway cookies and dairies in the United States -- to remain in business while its finances are untangled. 
 It is a stunning downfall for a company that began as a family-owned delicatessen and grew in recent years to become a global rival to Nestle, Danone and Kraft, selling milk and food products in 30 countries including the United States. That rapid expansion, however, came at a cost, and the Tanzi family that controls Parmalat began resorting to ever more convoluted schemes to finance growth.
 By last year, Parmalat, based here in north central Italy, stood at the center of a galaxy of 120 different companies, often with obscure purposes. 
 The rise and fall of Parmalat illustrates the archaic nature of corporate Italy compared with business in other Western industrial powers.
 Italy is a land of self-made entrepreneurs at family-run companies. Except for the state-owned sector, virtually all the Italian economic heroes -- including the Fiat auto group; the tire and cable company, Pirelli; and the Benetton apparel group -- are family run. 
 Indeed, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, whose government stepped earlier this week to help bail out Parmalat, boasts of being more entrepreneur than politician. His media group, Mediaset, is Italy's largest television company.
 Yet the model is not without its flaws. Other family-run corporate icons in Italy have collapsed in the wake of financial irregularities. Cirio, Italy's biggest canned food producer, defaulted a year ago on more than $1 billion in bonds that had been sold six months earlier. In the case of Parmalat, "it's in the Italian cultural matrix," said Mario Deaglio, an economist at the University of Turin. "First, there was an adventuresome management, and then investors disposed to ignore reality. And that in the midst of banks that did not exercise control."
 When Sept. 11 and the global economic slowdown came, Mr. Deaglio said, the cracks began to appear.
 If Mr. Bondi, the chairman, ultimately fails to keep Parmalat together, it would be the end of a remarkable Italian success story. The valley around this city sees itself as being to food what Silicon Valley is to electronics: a place of excellence and commercial success. 
 Thousands of small companies sprouting like fine mushrooms, most of them run more by craftsmen than industrialists, have for generations produced Parma ham, Parmesan cheese and all manner of pasta from agnolini to ziti. Among the mushrooms stood a few oaks, like the Barilla brothers, whose huge factories lie just north of the city looking more like aircraft assembly plants than pasta works. Mr. Tanzi was another.
 From the village of Collecchio, just up the Taro River valley from Parma, Calisto Tanzi, the son of a maker of hams and preserves, built his company, Parmalat, whose name comes from Parma and the Italian word latte, for milk, into one of the world's biggest dairy products companies.
 "The strategy was beautiful, it was a global leader in food," said Guido Corbetta, an economist at the Bocconi University Business School in Milan.
 Indeed, Mr. Tanzi's path differed widely from that taken by most of the entrepreneurs of Parma. While most built their success on traditional local products, like cheeses and hams, Mr. Tanzi's was based on modern innovation. He was also among the first in Parma to recognize the importance of branded foods, even for items as everyday as milk.
 In 1961, Mr. Tanzi, then 22, took over his father's business, then shifted its focus from ham to milk. The company's business took off in the mid-1960's, after Mr. Tanzi learned that a Swedish packaging company, Tetra Pak, had developed the aseptic brick-shaped cartons now familiar to most consumers for juices and other drinks.
 Adopting a method into Italy developed by Tetra Pak, Mr. Tanzi perfected a type of milk that, superheated and packaged in the special aseptic bricks, could be kept without refrigeration for at least half a year.
 Reinvesting heavily in advertising, Mr. Tanzi soon had Europeans drinking this long-life milk without a second thought. By the mid-1990's, the long-life milk accounted for 85 percent of French milk consumption; in Italy, 55 percent of fresh milk was long life, and in Germany, 50 percent. An avid sports fan, he recognized the value of sports for promoting Parmalat's new kind of milk, financing World Cup skiing, Formula One car racing, and later, the Parma's Serie A soccer team.
 By the late 1960's, Parmalat was branching out into other innovative products, like long-life cream and milk substitutes. The drive into new products was accompanied by geographical growth, both in Europe and the Americas. By the mid-1990's, Parmalat had pushed into the United States, urging skeptical Americans to change age-old habits of drinking only fresh cold milk. Mr. Tanzi spent $2 million to introduce the milk in New York by sponsoring the Italian tenor Luciano Pavarotti in a free concert in Central Park. A huge ad budget highlighted the convenience of long-life milk.
 By last year, Parmalat was generating roughly a third its global revenue of 7.6 billion euros ($9.4 billion) in North America, much of it thanks to the long-life milk.
 But success began to sour in November, when Parmalat reported an investment of 500 million euros ($619 million) in Epicurum, a hedge fund based in Cayman Islands. The company then sought to calm investors by saying it would recover the money, but has been unable to do so.
 The company has also disclosed that a Citigroup vehicle Buconero -- or "black hole" in Italian -- had invested in a Parmalat unit, which then lent the money to other parts of the company. 
 Last week, Standard & Poor's cut its credit rating on Parmalat eight notches to junk. On Friday, S.&P. lowered its rating to D -- for default -- its lowest rating. 
 Shares of Parmalat plunged 66 percent Friday, and have fallen 87 percent since the beginning of this month. The holdings of the Tanzi family, which still owns 51 percent of the company, have shriveled up.
 Until this week, Calisto Tanzi and his family reigned like patriarchs in Parma.
 His brother Giovanni, his son Stefano and his niece, Paola Visconti, were all in the top management. The old family home in Collecchio was revered as the company's cradle, and Mr. Tanzi was an honored figure in nearby Parma, the regional center. Parmalat, with 35,600 employees in 26 factories around the globe, gave work to more than 2,200 local people. 
 This week, Mr. Tanzi was forced off the board, together with other family members, and Mr. Bondi, 69, took over, after Parmalat was unable to account for almost $5 billion in assets declared on its books.
 This week, the local newspapers were struggling to explain the tangle to confused readers, puzzling over the sudden collapse of what appeared to be an Italian national champion, peppering their Italian prose with English expressions that probably meant little to the average Parma reader, like credit default swaps, self reference notes and trigger ratings. 
 The papers gave Mr. Bondi, who had cleaned up failed family companies in the past, like the Ferruzzi chemical empire in the 1990's, the nickname Mr. Wolf, after the cleanup character played by Harvey Keitel in Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction." The fear was that Mr. Bondi would break up Parmalat, then sell the assets to satisfy creditors.
 Antonio Mattioli, secretary of the local CGIL labor union who helped negotiate a recent plan to streamline Parmalat, said the company's operations generated enough profit to finance itself. "We're lucky the company is profitable and it's professional," he said. "That's where we should depart from."
 Then, describing Mr. Bondi as a "chopper of heads," he added: "Let's not think about blowing up one of the last functioning pieces of the Italian economy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Until this week, when the financial picture of the Italian dairy giant Parmalat led to a change in leadership at the company, Calisto Tanzi, below, and his family reigned like patriarchs in Parma. Enrico Bondi, a turnaround specialist, has taken over the chairman's post from Mr. Tanzi. (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times); (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C1); Calisto Tanzi, pictured in 1981 with workers at a factory in Parma, transformed the family's small business into a dairy and food giant. The company's introduction of long-life milk helped it spread its products across Europe and North America. (Photo by Vittoriano Rastelli/CORBIS); Enrico Bondi, Parmalat's new chairman, has helped clean up failed family businesses before. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C3) Chart: "Parmalat At a Glance"HEADQUARTERS: MilanEMPLOYEES: 35,600CHIEF EXECUTIVE: Enrico Bondi*PRODUCTS: Milk, cookies, tomato sauces, ice cream, cheese, yogurt, juices, iced, teas, bottled, water, pizza Graph tracks revenue from 1999-2002 in euros. 2002Milk processing: 57%Dairy products: 23%Baked goods: 12%Canned vegetables: 8% *Mr. Bondi replaced Calisto Tanzi as chairman and chief executive on Monday. Mr. Tanzi built the company over four decades from a family-run business. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets; Hoovers)(pg. C3) Graph tracks daily closing stock price for Parmalat from December 1st through December 15th. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (79%); FOOD MFG (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); MILK (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); ETHICS (74%); SCANDALS (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); LITIGATION (73%); EURO (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); FAMILY (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%); LIQUIDATIONS (58%) Accounting and Accountants; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Appointments and Executive Changes; Bankruptcies; Frauds and Swindling; Suits and Litigation; Ethics; Biographical Information

COMPANY: PARMALAT SPA (91%); KONINKLIJKE AHOLD NV (ROYAL AHOLD) (84%); VIVENDI (70%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GRANT THORNTON INTERNATIONAL LTD (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); DANONE SA (FRANCE) (56%); NESTLE SA (52%); FIAT SPA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PARMALAT; BANK OF AMERICA CORP (BAC) ; Parmalat Spa; Parmalat Spa

TICKER: PLT (BIT) (91%); AHOE (FRA) (84%); AH (BIT) (84%); AH (AMS) (84%); VIV (PAR) (70%); VIV (BIT) (70%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); DNN (BIT) (56%); BN (PAR) (56%); NESN (SWX) (52%); FSOR (PAR) (50%); F (BIT) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (91%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (91%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (91%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (84%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (70%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (50%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (50%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%) John Tagliabue; Calisto Tanzi; Enrico Bondi

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%) ITALY (94%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003 



502 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Endorses Dean, Giving Him Centrist Boost 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, Dec. 19 

 BODY:
Gov. James E. McGreevey snatched a rare moment on the stage of national Democratic politics on Friday when he became the first sitting governor to endorse the presidential candidacy of Howard Dean.
 Mr. McGreevey, who has struggled this year with low approval ratings and several significant policy setbacks, appeared buoyant as he described how both he and Dr. Dean, the former governor of Vermont, had fought to preserve education financing while contending with severe budget problems. Speaking before a group of 600 New Jersey union leaders, elected officials and local party stalwarts, Mr. McGreevey said that Dr. Dean was committed to addressing the concerns of middle-class families. "We need a leader who believes the three most important things in America are the economy, the environment and the education of our children," Mr. McGreevey said. 
 New Jersey has a late primary date, June 8, which means that the race for the nomination will most likely be decided before the state's voters head to the polls. Nonetheless, Mr. McGreevey's endorsement gives Dr. Dean several advantages as he tries to solidify his status as the Democratic front-runner. Mr. McGreevey, a skilled fund-raiser who commands a powerful campaign organization, is also a member the centrist Democratic Leadership Council. His endorsement could help Dr. Dean counter arguments that he is too liberal to attract support from mainstream Democrats.
In a nod to Mr. McGreevey's centrist pedigree, Dr. Dean praised him for closing two large budget gaps without raising sales or income taxes. But Dr. Dean, whose surprising rise has been fueled by his criticism of President Bush's decision to wage war on Iraq, said his campaign would continue its unsparing criticism of Mr. Bush's conservative policies, particularly the administration's moves to loosen environmental regulations and to offer large tax cuts to wealthy Americans.
"We cannot win if we think the best way to beat Bush is to be Bush lite," Dr. Dean said.
Dr. Dean and his advisers have been courting Democratic governors with renewed vigor in recent days, trying to build on the momentum of Al Gore's endorsement and to steer the focus away from the news of Saddam Hussein's capture and Dr. Dean's opposition to the war in Iraq. 
Since Mr. Hussein was seized on Saturday, Senators Joseph I. Lieberman and John Kerry, who are also seeking the Democratic nomination, have asserted that Dr. Dean is inexperienced in foreign policy and soft on terrorism. The criticism intensified after Dr. Dean said in a speech this week that Mr. Hussein's capture had not made America any safer.
Asked about the McGreevey endorsement on Friday, Senator Lieberman said: "I understand Howard Dean is the front-runner. But no votes have been cast yet, and the good news for our system is that neither politicians nor pundits nor polls pick presidents, the people do. And I'm confident that the people are coming to my side." 
Mr. Lieberman made his remarks at a Newark, Del., manufacturing plant where he had just picked up an endorsement from State Representative Melanie George.
Although Mr. McGreevey supported the war, he said he agreed with Dr. Dean on most issues and was impressed by the way his campaign had energized Democrats. Once Mr. McGreevey decided to back Dr. Dean, his advisers urged him to do so quickly to reap some national publicity by being the first sitting governor to do so. Two sitting governors have endorsed Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri. 
"McGreevey is hoping he can ride the crest of Dean's popularity" said Ross K. Baker, a professor of political science at Rutgers. "He could use some good news these days, and even if Dean loses, it's not likely that the eventual nominee would retaliate."
In making his endorsement on Friday, Mr. McGreevey was joined by a significant portion of New Jersey's Democratic establishment, including Representatives Rush D. Holt and Frank Pallone Jr. and 15 of the 21 Democratic county chairmen.
But Republicans said that Mr. McGreevey showed that he, like Dr. Dean, was too liberal for most New Jerseyeans. "New Jersey voters now know how truly out-of-step Jim McGreevey really is on important matters like the economy, government spending and our national defense," Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., the state Republican chairman, said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. James E. McGreevey, right, with Howard Dean yesterday. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BUDGETS (89%); IRAQ WAR (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CHILDREN (76%); FAMILY (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); TERRORISM (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Endorsements

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); AL GORE (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) James E (Gov) Mcgreevey; Howard Dean

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%) New Jersey; Vermont

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003 



503 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Ease a Little Guilt, Provide Some Jobs: It's Pork on the Hill 

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 19 

 BODY:
Like most other members of Congress, Representative Jim Gibbons, Republican of Nevada, tries to do what he can for the folks back home.
 So when the House passed a catchall spending bill this month, Mr. Gibbons wasted no time in announcing that he had secured millions of dollars for Nevada, including $6 million for a bus terminal, $2 million for a truck climbing lane and $1.6 million for drinking water improvements. 
 But it was a lesser appropriation -- $225,000 to repair a swimming pool in Sparks, Nev., his hometown -- that got Mr. Gibbons in hot water. The 59-year-old congressman confessed that he sought the money because he had always felt guilty about clogging the pool's drain with tadpoles when he was 10 years old. 
"Congressman Gibbons is using taxpayer dollars to repay his debt to society," Brian M. Reidl, a federal budget analyst at the Heritage Foundation, a research organization, said in describing the pool money as his "favorite pork story." 
Mr. Gibbons, who defends the project as "very meritorious," is far from the only lawmaker riding the pork gravy train this year. 
The spending bill, called an omnibus, is stuffed with an estimated 7,000 special interest provisions, from $50 million for an indoor rain forest in Iowa to $150,000 for a stop light and traffic improvements in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. If the Senate approves it, total spending on pet projects -- which has more than doubled in the last five years -- will reach roughly $23 billion this year, the most ever, according to watchdog groups that track federal spending.
Pork barrel projects are a time-honored tradition in Washington. But observers of the Congressional efforts are surprised, and in some cases dismayed, by the size of the special-interest projects this year, at a time when the federal deficit is rising and Republicans, who fashion themselves as fiscally conservative, run both houses of Congress.
The spending bill, which the Senate will take up in January, treats the home states of powerful appropriators especially well. Alaska, home to Senator Ted Stevens, the Republican chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, would reap millions under the measure, including $1 million for the Anchorage Museum and $1 million for the Tongass Coast Aquarium. Florida, the home state of Representative C. W. Bill Young, a Republican who is Mr. Stevens's counterpart in the House, also stands to gain millions.
Every state -- indeed nearly every Congressional district, no matter Democratic or Republican -- is the recipient of one pork project or another. The measure includes $200,000 for the University of Hawaii to produce a documentary on the Kalahari Bushmen, $220,000 to renovate a blueberry research center at the University of Maine and, in a provision Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader, called "most ironic," $500,000 for the "Exercise in Hard Choices" program at the University of Akron, which examines how Congress makes budget decisions.
"It's worse than ever, and it's even more egregious because the Republicans are in charge, and everyone thought that they would be fiscally responsible," said Tom Schatz, president of Citizens Against Government Waste, an advocacy group that named Mr. Gibbons "Porker of the Month" for the pool provision. "That's the big disappointment."
Representative Tom DeLay, the House majority leader, has defended the $820 billion measure, which includes $328.1 billion in discretionary spending, as fiscally responsible, saying it represents an increase of just 3 percent over last year. In remarks on the House floor the day the bill was approved, Mr. DeLay, a Texan, said it was filled with "sound, disciplined policies, funded at reasonable, responsible levels."
As to pork, Mr. DeLay and other lawmakers prefer a different term: earmarks. Such projects are typically neither subject to Congressional hearings nor competitively awarded through the federal bureaucracy's grant-making process. Usually, they are requested by a single member of Congress and serve only a single local or special interest. Whatever the name, lawmakers defend the practice vigorously.
"Look, this is the standard practice the United States Congress has had for decades," Mr. Gibbons said. "They allocate a percentage of the budget to go to special projects in various members' districts. There are thousands in there. I have one of those thousands. I do not regard this as pork."
The amount of money set aside for earmarks has been increasing for a number of reasons. Mr. DeLay told his House colleagues that the practice began escalating when President Bill Clinton was in the White House. Republicans in Congress, disdainful of the Democratic president's spending priorities, decided they had "the right to direct spending to our districts, rather than wait on some bureaucrat to decide whether it was a useful project or not."
But Pete Sepp, spokesman for the National Taxpayers Union, a group that is critical of pork barrel spending, notes that when Mr. Clinton was president, the federal government had a surplus.
"There simply wasn't the same amount of pressure on Congress to keep a lid on this activity," Mr. Sepp said. "Unfortunately, we've been in a deficit situation for two years, the better part of three, now, and we have not seen an appropriate change in Congressional behavior."
If anything, pork projects are getting more parochial. To read through the 1,182-page omnibus is to discover that no detail is too small to escape Congress' attention. The bill, for example, allocates $10,000 for the Endless Mountain Transportation Authority in Bradford County, Pa; $12,000 for a group called 100 Black Men of Louisville, Ky; and $15,000 for the Fisher's Peak Y.M.C.A. in Trinidad, Colo.
Of course, one man's pork is another man's economic development, as David Oman, the administrator of the Iowa Environmental/Education Project can attest.
The project, to be built on a former industrial site in Coralville, is intended as a national tourist destination; it will feature copies of ecosystems, including a 4.5-acre indoor rain forest. Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, secured $50 million for it. Mr. Oman estimates it willinfuse $120 million each year into the flagging Iowa economy.
As to the pork label, Mr. Oman said: "The irony of Iowa being the No. 1 pork state in the country, for pork production, is not lost on us. It's disappointing, because it entirely misses the mark."
One reason such earmarks flourish is that they help create support for passing sometimes controversial appropriations bills; no lawmaker is going to vote against a measure that helps his or her own district. This year, earmarks were withheld from certain lawmakers who voted against appropriations bills.
Among them was Representative Nita M. Lowey, Democrat of New York, who is on the House appropriations committee and voted against the spending bill covering the Departments of Education, Labor and Health and Human Services. After the vote, she said, the subcommittee chairman responsible for the measure, Representative Ralph Regula, Republican of Ohio, informed her and others who voted no that their earmarks would be denied.
"It's a shame," Mrs. Lowey said, adding that she lost several million dollars worth of projects as a result. But she did get some other earmarks, including the $150,000 for the stop light and traffic improvements in Briarcliff Manor, which she said are necessary to improve safety at a local school.
Mrs. Lowey said she based her earmark requests on the needs outlined by officials in her district. Mr. Gibbons, likewise, said the mayor of Sparks asked him for money to improve the pool. It was only then, nearly half a century after what people in his district have called "the Polliwog Caper," that the congressman's long-held secret came out.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, secured a $50 million allocation for an indoor rain forest project, which would be built along Interstate 80 in Coralville and is intended as a tourist attraction. (Photo by Associated Press); (Photo by Buzz Orr for The New York Times); Representative Jim Gibbons, Republican of Nevada, who at 10 years old used tadpoles to clog a swimming pool in Sparks, Nev., at right, saw to it this year that Congress allocated $225,000 for repairs to the pool. (Photo by Marilyn Newton for The New York Times); (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); APPROPRIATIONS (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); APPROVALS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); RAIN FORESTS (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%) States (US) ; Swimming Pools; Forests and Forestry; Law and Legislation; Records and Achievements

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (56%)

PERSON: JIM GIBBONS (93%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (78%); TED STEVENS (58%); C W BILL YOUNG (58%); TOM DASCHLE (50%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; Tom (Rep) Delay; Jim (Rep) Gibbons; Charles E (Sen) Grassley

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (96%); MAINE, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States; Iowa; Sparks (Nev); United States; Nevada

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003 



504 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: The Ownership Society 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BROOKS; E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Not long ago, a man who runs a construction company came to the White House to meet with a senior Bush administration official. He talked economic policy, then was asked how his business was going.
 He said things were going well. Orders were up. He'd revamped his I.T. system, and he'd re-engineered his production process so he'd been able to reduce his work force to 7,200 from 9,800. 
 You can imagine the reaction as he dribbled out this final bit of good news. For here in a nutshell is the administration's problem. The economy is doing well, but because of enormous productivity gains, it is not yet producing enough jobs to sharply reduce unemployment and ensure President Bush's re-election. 
This situation means that the name Arthur Okun is once again reverberating off White House walls. Okun, an economist, is the author of Okun's Law, which predicts how fast the economy has to grow to reduce unemployment. Back in the early 1990's, economists expected that the economy had to grow faster than 2.6 percent to create jobs. Today, because of productivity gains, growth rates have to be much higher.
"This is going to change the entire economy," one senior Bush official observed. "How do we deal with it?"
There are essentially three answers to that question. The first is the pure free-market answer, which says the market will take care of itself. Productivity gains will eventually lead to job creation, and workers will learn to adapt. The second is the unions' answer, which is that the job picture is stagnant because of unfair global competition. Rewrite the trade rules, and jobs will be more secure.
The third response has been championed most ardently by centrist organizations like the Democratic Leadership Council: embrace the more productive and fluid economy, but make sure government aggressively moves to give workers the tools they need to cope.
Over the past three years, the Democratic Party has shifted behind the unions' approach. When Dick Gephardt and Howard Dean are asked about manufacturing job losses, they talk first about unfair trade. The Bush administration, meanwhile, is embracing its own version of the centrist Democratic approach, occupying the ground abandoned by the leftward-veering Democrats. 
In his State of the Union address, the president will announce measures to foster job creation. In the meantime, he is talking about what he calls the Ownership Society.
This is a bundle of proposals that treat workers as self-reliant pioneers who rise through several employers and careers. To thrive, these pioneers need survival tools. They need to own their own capital reserves, their own retraining programs, their own pensions and their own health insurance.
Administration officials are talking about giving unemployed workers personal re-employment accounts, which they could spend on training, child care, a car, a move to a place with more jobs, or whatever else they think would benefit them.
President Bush has a proposal to combine and simplify the confusing morass of government savings programs and give individuals greater control over how they want to spend their tax-sheltered savings. Administration officials hope, in a second term, to let individuals control part of their Social Security pensions and perhaps even their medical savings accounts.
The Ownership Society idea allows Bush to be centrist and conservative at the same time. It is centrist because it means actively using government to solve problems. In 2000, Bush declared: "I do not believe government is the enemy. But I do not believe government is always the answer. At its best, it can help people find the tools they need to build for themselves. At its best, it gives options, not orders." The Ownership Society platform is designed to update that message for 2004.
But the platform is culturally conservative. Talking with staff, Bush emphasizes that he wants to use these policies to move from an "anything-goes culture" to a "responsibility culture." By giving individuals control of their own retraining, their own savings and their own homes, he hopes to inculcate self-reliance, industriousness and responsibility.
With events like the State of the Union address, an incumbent president has the power to change the subject and reshape the domestic debate. The Bushies haven't done it yet, but they are about to. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (61%) United States Economy; Productivity; Labor; Unemployment; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Social Security (US); Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; United States Economy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) David Brooks; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003 



505 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: In Small Town Scarred by 9/11, Voters Debate Bush's Iraq Strategy 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: SHANKSVILLE, Pa., Dec. 17 

 BODY:
When news broadcasts showed a ragged Saddam Hussein being dragged out of a hole in Iraq, there was elation in this small mining town, where one of four airliners hijacked on Sept. 11 crashed. For obvious reasons, battling terrorism is the election issue here.
 "On 9/11 people realized how vulnerable we are as a nation and want someone in office who'll fight against terrorists," said Rick King, the town's assistant fire chief, owner of the general store Ida's and the first person at the crash site. 
 But even in this overwhelmingly Republican hamlet, residents are divided about the effectiveness of President Bush's strategy of aggressive intervention, particularly in Iraq. 
"The feeling of safety is always important and 9/11 really brought that to the surface," said Beth Ware, an independent who voted for George Bush in 2000 but who said she was uncomfortable with the war in Iraq and was not sure how she would cast her ballot next year. 
"I appreciate the effort but I think it's sad our guys are dying there," said Ms. Ware, a high school teacher whose husband, a paramedic, rushed to the crash site. "Now that we have Saddam, well, I don't think it's bad. But I'm worried that the way America has behaved, we'll always be seen as the oppressor."
Opinions about the war on terrorism are intense among this town's 245 residents, some of whom had never heard of Iraq before the Sept. 11 attacks. But those emotions dovetail with national polls showing that while there is widespread general support for combating terrorism, there are also substantial misgivings about the war in Iraq and skepticism that Mr. Hussein's capture will make a difference. 
In a national New York Times-CBS News Poll released this week, 68 percent of respondents said they supported President Bush's campaign against terrorism, but at the same time 49 percent said the war was not worth the loss of American lives there. Only 19 percent said that Mr. Hussein's capture would decrease the threat of terrorism. 
"America needs to protect itself from terrorists, and people's sense of safety will be a campaign issue," said Wanda Kountz, the town secretary, who also works at Ida's. Her son is serving in Iraq.
But Ms. Kountz added: "I don't think the capture of Saddam makes much of a difference. Bin Laden, that would be a good one!"
Before Sept. 11,people here did not pay much attention to international affairs.
This town is poorer, less educated and more right wing than most of America. The average income is $14,500 and many people work three jobs just to get that. Fewer than 20 percent have college degrees: the mines paid so well, back when they were in full operation.
It is a place where registered Democrats tend to hide their colors, and American flags far outnumber people on the snowy rural roads. Almost every family has a son or father in the military. Donated memorials to the 40 victims of United Airlines Flight 93, from totem poles to angels, dot the landscape. 
But the crash, felt by almost all who live here, burst the town's sense of isolation. Today, all of Shanksville is devoted to CNN. 
"When I saw that 155-foot airplane heading towards my house at 570 miles per hour, my life changed," said Nevin A. Lambert, who was serving as ambassador on a recent afternoon at the temporary memorial, a simple metal fence decked with flags and hats donated by visitors, on a blustery hilltop across a field from the crash site. 
"We live in the middle of nowhere," said Mr. Lambert a gravelly voiced retiree wearing a Flight 93 cap, as contrails crisscrossed the sky. "Before 9/11 I'm not sure I'd even heard of Iraq and Afghanistan. Now I watch the news every night. I think about the rest of the world and terrorists all the time, and frankly I'm scared."
In the 2000 election, residents estimate, 70 percent of Shanksville voted for Mr. Bush, although foreign policy was not a big factor. Many say he just seemed like a regular guy. Since then, President Bush's go-get-'em response to the Sept. 11 attacks has struck a chord here. 
"That day to me clarified that it is really up to America to lead the fight for freedom in the world," said Karl D. Glessner, owner of Stonycreek Builders Supply. "It's like the president says: we have to take the battle to them, otherwise they will bring it here."
Mr. Glessner said he would vote for President Bush for his foreign policy, even as he was critical on domestic issues, particularly the president's support of big business. 
But a significant minority, equally moved by the crash, have gone in the opposite direction. 
Rebecca Hutzell, a Democrat, still remembers the boom of the crash and how the ceiling tiles shook. To this day, she said, she is too traumatized to visit the crash site. But Ms. Hutzell said she believed the issue had been used for political ends.
"I was very distressed to see the announcements about Saddam Hussein and all the publicity it got," Ms. Hutzell said. "Not that we should ignore terrorism, but I'm really worried that it's being used to get people all revved up so they will forget that this year they don't have a Christmas turkey. The economy is terrible around here, but no one talks about that."
In most of the country, disputes about Iraq tend to be theoretical. But in Shanksville, they have a raw edge.
"We all have the same concerns about what happened here, and there's relief about Saddam Hussein, but I'm still not sure that entering this war was a good thing," said Paulette Denner, a fifth-grade teacher, emerging from the gray brick public school. 
"I don't think anyone can really keep us safe," Ms. Denner said, "and since we didn't have international support, I worry that we are no longer respected or considered trustworthy and that could be very damaging."
A Democrat, she said she would not vote for President Bush. 
As Ms. Denner spoke, her friend and colleague, Gail Edwards, became agitated and burst in. "Iknow I get defensive about this stuff, but with what we've been through and with my husband in the military, I have to trust President George W. Bush and I support him 100 percent," said Ms. Edwards, who voted for Mr. Bush in 2000. 
As a sign of her admiration, Ms. Edwards said, she bought her husband a special Christmas gift: a military action-figure doll of George W. Bush.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nevin A. Lambert, an ambassador at the memorial to Flight 93, says he thinks about terrorism all the time. Rick King, owner of Ida's, says voters want a leader who will fight terrorists. The town secretary, Wanda Kountz, with a photo of the crash, says safety will be a campaign issue. (Photographs by Jeff Swensen for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); PARAMEDICS (51%) Terrorism; Election Issues; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%) Elisabeth Rosenthal; George W (Pres) Bush; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Shanksville (Pa); Iraq; New York City; Washington (DC); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2003 



506 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2180 words

HEADLINE: The Lord of Springwood 

BYLINE:  By Michael Janeway; Michael Janeway, professor of journalism and arts at Columbia University, is the author of "The Fall of the House of Roosevelt: Brokers of Ideas and Power From FDR to LBJ," to be published this winter.

 BODY:
 FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT
Champion of Freedom.
By Conrad Black.
Illustrated. 1,280 pp. New York:
PublicAffairs. $39.95.
 In the matter of Franklin D. Roosevelt, biographers and historians find themselves with a puzzle. Paralyzed but indomitable, our only president elected more than twice, inventive reformer of an exploitative capitalist order, gallant leader of the free world against totalitarian evil -- the question is how deeply he was an idealist, the real thing, and how much an opportunist, a poseur. In what flows from the convergence of soul and events, the debate is about whether he was, after all, a truly great statesman, even a savior, or an improviser, a talented but shallow tactician and charmer who, leaving various collateral damage, cornered the market on political luck. Supremely elusive, he personifies a riddle about just where the rhetoric of leadership -- his own, and that of his admirers -- ends and the man, revealed, falls short. 
For decades, scholars, men and women in or near Roosevelt's circle, and Roosevelt himself have given it to us several ways. Arthur Schlesinger Jr. set a tone, writing in 1958, "There are two sorts of greatness -- the foursquare, all-of-a-piece, unitary, monolithic kind, possessed by Washington, Jackson, Winston Churchill; and the glittering, elusive, pluralistic, impalpable kind, possessed by Jefferson, Henry Clay, Lloyd George, where levels of personality peel off with the delusive transparence of the skins of an onion." Schlesinger put Roosevelt in the second category, and then pushed the balance the other way. Quoting Harry Hopkins (to Robert Sherwood), he concluded that Roosevelt " 'sometimes tries to appear tough and cynical and flippant . . . but that's an act he likes to put on. . . . You and I are for Roosevelt because he's a great spiritual figure, because he's an idealist.' This was true." 
James MacGregor Burns tilted a notch toward neutrality in the matter, writing in 1970 that Roosevelt was "a deeply divided man," at once "the man of principle" and "the man of . . . narrow, manageable, short-run goals, intent always on protecting his power and authority in a world of shifting moods and capricious fortune." Shrewd witnesses recorded their own bouts with the riddle. To the young Dean Acheson, after a rough round in his service, Roosevelt was "formidable" but "patronizing" and his mind merely "facile." The sociologist David Riesman, who clerked for Justice Louis Brandeis and moved in the inner New Deal circle in his youth, saw Roosevelt as inspirational, but "something of a joker." John Maynard Keynes saluted Roosevelt's esprit, but of his grasp on policy remarked in the 1930's that "he had as much idea of where he would land as a prewar pilot." When Roosevelt's aide Thomas Corcoran volunteered that the difference between him and his cousin Theodore Roosevelt was that "you never fake," the president replied, "Oh, but Tommy, at times I do, I do!" Roosevelt told Corcoran that a president lacked the time to be true in all ways. As Corcoran recalled Roosevelt's words: "he must deceive, misrepresent, leave false impressions . . . and trust to charm, loyalty and the result to make up for it. . . . A great man cannot be a good man."
In pursuit of the divination of the riddle of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the literature on him is mammoth. He attracted gifted biographers of multivolume treatments -- Schlesinger and Burns, but also Frank Freidel and Kenneth S. Davis. Add to that important works by William E. Leuchtenburg, Geoffrey Ward, Alan Brinkley, Jordan Schwarz, Joseph P. Lash, Doris Kearns Goodwin; where to stop? Then come scores of works by or about Roosevelt's intimates, rivals, military commanders and, by no means least, his wife. It is endless -- and so, given the wonder of F.D.R., in both senses of the word, it should be.
Endless, not unlike this book. "Franklin Delano Roosevelt: Champion of Freedom" seeks not only to reflect that fountain of research, to revisit Roosevelt's claims to greatness, but to contain and infuse it all with the spirit of Thomas Carlyle's theory of the great man. Conrad Black's Franklin D. Roosevelt (and he owns, as it were, a piece of him; see below) is the product of a weaving together of most, though not all, important Roosevelt sources, decently written, with High Tory flourishes like this: "Gradually, between his 15th and 25th years, during the ascendancy of Theodore Roosevelt, Franklin began to persuade himself that he would become God's chosen, and the American people's constitutionally elected, instrument for the stewardship of the country." 
Or: "Supreme political artist as he was, he cannot have failed, by the beginning of 1939, to have glimpsed this destiny that would carry his country to heights no nation had ever occupied and himself to a position in American history rivaled, if at all, only by Washington and Lincoln." The logic here is on the order of the "Hail Mary" pass, damn the syntax: "The reason Roosevelt must have known all this is because there is no other plausible explanation of his conduct as he moved deftly through the world crisis . . . like an agile predator . . . unflappable, devious, utterly determined and usually inspiring. . . . The duel between Roosevelt and Hitler would become increasingly elaborate, like a primeval war dance, until the two mortal enemies came to grips with each other." Such passages are unsupported by citation.
Carlyle, Lytton Strachey said, "evolved a kind of supermorality by which all the most unpleasant qualities of human nature -- egotism, insensitiveness, love of power -- became the object of his religious adoration -- a monstrous and inverted ethic, combining every possible disadvantage of virtue and vice." Thus did Carlyle turn Frederick the Great from "a knave of genius, a skeptical 18th-century gambler with a strong will," into "an Ideal Man, a God-like Hero, a chosen instrument of the Eternal Powers." Something like that took place in the head of the author, a controversial and imperious Canadian-born, lately British, press lord. His version of The Hero, however, is franker than was Carlyle's to accept a vice as just that. Disarmingly, he appreciates Roosevelt "at his best" running rings around adversaries with "a tangled trail of jokes, strained analogies, half-truths and, if necessary, outright falsehoods." But he is enraptured with his idea of Roosevelt as a Hero who in general "didn't need advisers, only executants." Lord Black has only a sniff of interest in F.D.R.'s invention and creative use of our first national "brains trust."
The book is otherwise fun at times in its eclectic range, if you like this sort of doorstop; especially in the touches that reflect the perspective of others in the English-speaking world. Rehearsed here are Roosevelt's shameless self-promotion and machinations behind the backs of President Woodrow Wilson and Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels, then his bosses; his absorption in 1919 of lessons in how not to win the peace. We revisit the difference in wartime leadership positions of Roosevelt, as a three- and then four-times elected head of government and of state, and of Winston Churchill, unelected, summoned by King George VI to lead a coalition government after Neville Chamberlain fell in the crisis of 1940. It's amusing to think of Joseph P. Kennedy, championing British fashions in Nazi appeasement as Roosevelt's ambassador to London, as having "gone native." We get a sympathetic view of Roosevelt at Yalta, still holding some of his powers of alertness, against dire accounts of other attendees like Churchill's "lugubrious and indiscreet" confidant-doctor, Lord Moran. 
But given the richness of the Roosevelt literature and the completeness of the best biographical work, it's not clear why we need this service. Encyclopedic in detail, Lord Black's work is also packed with droit du seigneur conceit and abandon. It gives off the familiar air of vanity publishing; the touch of the haughty proprietor who's read a lot. All Roosevelt scholars refer to the family seat as Hyde Park, but Hyde Park is a town; 
Lord Black prefers to call the house "Springwood," in keeping with the style of identification of landed British estates. In one sequence of 90 pages, albeit with World War II impending, he flings around terms like "nonsense," "madness," "outrageous," "preposterous," "pestilentially," "insane," "mad," "insane" and "mad" again, and "lobotomous."
Most historians work with the concept of the First New Deal, sunk by 1935 by the Supreme Court's objection to top-down agencies like the National Recovery Administration, followed by the Second New Deal, which emphasized more indirect, Keynesian economic interventionism. Lord Black gives us five New Deals, but this is the crude thought-play of oratory.
For his Fourth New Deal, in the context of his portrait of Roosevelt as transcendentally prescient about World War II, he has the president in 1940 reassuring his Federal Reserve Board chairman, Marriner Eccles (who protested deep cuts in the unemployment relief budget), that "European events would take care of the unemployed by leading to the expansion and rearming of the U.S. military." This is an example of Carlylean claim. Lord Black offers no citations for it. Eccles in fact quotes Roosevelt rather differently, and, like Eccles, the scholars who use his testimony (like Kenneth S. Davis) give us no such "we planned it that way" account. Despite a book so heavy you can't hold it with ease, longings for The Hero must give way yet again to the vexatious duality of Roosevelt as superbly gifted, brave leader and cautious, zigzagging, fortunate opportunist. 
To smaller matters: pour le sport, his lordship enjoys casual target practice -- at the "lawless Communism" of the United Auto Workers' sit-down strikes, for example, or at "Eleanor and her enlightened world federalist friends," who "didn't represent anyone except a few feminists and socialists around Washington Square." Shades of the letters columns of British newspapers like Lord Black's; one can only enjoy a Tory sensibility so unbridled that it finds a place for a footnote defending the 17th-century monarchy against Cromwell and his "questionable proceedings."
More space than the Social Security Act earns is expended on Roosevelt's "capricious persecution" and "insatiable vindictiveness" in pressing tax evasion charges against powerful enemies including former Treasury Secretary Andrew Mellon and Moses Annenberg, the latter a press lord and father of Lord Black's great friend, the politico-philanthropist Walter Annenberg. Endnotes for cited material appear for a while and then disappear for vast stretches. It is troubling in a work so great with the labor of acknowledged others to find the names of figures in or near the Roosevelt administration like Adolf Berle, Gardiner Means, Tom Connally, Lauchlin Currie and Stanley Reed misspelled. William C. Bullitt was not the radical adventurer John Reed's brother-in-law; he married Reed's widow.
It's hard to avoid a sense of crossover between Lord Black's grand claims for Roosevelt and his grandiose sense of self. In his well-to-do youth in Toronto he was fascinated by outsize, swashbuckling figures; Hearst was one, Napoleon remains a favorite. From a base of lesser Canadian newspaper holdings he built an empire, Hollinger; accumulating ancillary press interests in the United States (including The Chicago Sun-Times) and in Israel; took over the influential, establishment Daily and Sunday Telegraph (or "Torygraph") in London; fought brutal circulation wars with his rival Rupert Murdoch; collected a peerage (at the price of costly litigation, compelling forfeit of his Canadian citizenship); paid luminaries like Henry Kissinger and Margaret Thatcher and other well-connected politicos and former ambassadors to serve on various of his boards (as does his wife, a journalist). Last summer Lord Black of Crossharbour (a district near The Telegraph's London site) had Hollinger purchase $8 million worth of diverse Roosevelt papers on the market; some sprinkle his notes here.
That move added a spurt of fuel to last month's successful revolt against Lord Black's control of Hollinger by institutional stockholders who charged him with a pattern of multimillion-dollar self-payments. In November, they forced him unceremoniously out as Hollinger's chief. The company is for sale; the fate of his holding company is unclear.
Moths to flame: in recent years the Securities and Exchange Commission lost its watchdog soul to the interests it was created to regulate and is currently in search of it, but the S.E.C. remains one of Franklin D. Roosevelt's and his New Deal's most signal and durable achievements (alas, it earns one fleeting paragraph in this telling). Lord Black's interest in F.D.R. is longtime. More than two decades ago the S.E.C. successfully litigated a dispute with him over issues of misrepresentation in his American ventures. The S.E.C. has now begun a new investigation of Lord Black's operations.

GRAPHIC: Photograph: President Roosevelt addressing the nation after the Japanese attack of Dec. 7, 1941. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HISTORY (72%); LITERATURE (67%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: Michael Janeway; Conrad Black; Franklin Delano (1882-1945) Roosevelt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



507 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Government Isn't the Answer 

BYLINE:  By John B. Judis; John B. Judis is a senior editor of The New Republic and the author of "The Paradox of American Democracy: Elites, Special Interests, and the Betrayal of Public Trust."

 BODY:
 THE SOUL OF CAPITALISM
Opening Paths to a Moral Economy.
By William Greider.
366 pp. New York:
Simon & Schuster. $28.
 William Greider has written several important books about how the world works, including "Secrets of the Temple" (still probably the best book on the Federal Reserve), but his new book, "The Soul of Capitalism," is very much about how he thinks the world should work. It's a bold and ambitious attempt to remedy the lack of vision that has plagued the American left since the decline of New Deal liberalism. Ultimately, Greider falters -- a victim of the distance between his vision and current reality -- but for anyone interested in serious economic and social reform, his effort is worth reading. 
Greider's book, like those of many other progressive thinkers, owes a profound debt to Marx's theory of history. Marx's great contribution was to see 19th-century Germany, England and America not as polities defined by their form of government but as political economies, whose politics and culture were shaped by the way production was organized. Similarly, Greider sees today's America -- from its political system to its family life -- as being molded by the way its capitalist economy is organized. The current capitalism, Greider argues, produces "greater inequalities, generation after generation," and is "gradually killing nature." 
Like Marx, Greider sees capitalism creating its own opposition, fostering or reinforcing values that are deeply in conflict with the culture it has created -- values like self-realization and fulfillment in work, harmony within nature and concern for one's community. Unlike Marx, Greider does not believe that the solution to capitalism's "deep conflicts and discontents" will be a new stage of history, in which market and class will disappear, but rather a radically reformed capitalism.
Greider's soulful capitalism evokes some elements of Jefferson and of late-19th-century populism. But it also resembles the "market socialism" popular in the former Yugoslavia and among Eastern European theorists two decades ago. Greider's capitalism would involve some kind of worker ownership and control of enterprises. "The fundamental solution," he writes, is that "people must figure out how to 'own' their own work." Businesses would be limited in size, would promote equality and concern for nature and family, and would gear production not merely to enlarge profits but to achieve "harmony with nature." 
In describing how to reach this new kind of capitalism, Greider diverges not only from the revolutionary Marx but from American progressives who sought reform by using the power of government to modify the power of the market. Greider despairs of using government, because it has been too infected by capitalism itself. "The political system is not yet ready for big questions," he declares. His method of reform recalls the early utopian socialists like Owen and Fourier, and late-19th-century American anarchopopulists. He wants a new kind of capitalism to spread through example -- through the work of what he calls "active pioneers."
It's an attractive vision, but it suffers from the same failings as those of the utopian socialists. Reform, as Marx knew, has to be rooted in historical possibilities. In the late 19th century, the populists' attempt to preserve a Jeffersonian America in the midst of the industrial, urban revolution was bound to fail. Greider's attempt to revive a Jeffersonian-style market socialism in the midst of a new global, postindustrial capitalism is also likely to fail. Eastern Europe, of course, has abandoned market socialism, and in the United States ambitious attempts at worker ownership at Weirton Steel and United Airlines have foundered. And as Greider acknowledges, the shareholder revolts against Wall Street's priorities "are mostly isolated skirmishes at present."
Greider recognizes that his kind of reforms will not last if they don't meet market tests of growth and profitability, but he insists that the changes he urges will make companies more profitable. Perhaps some will, but his plans for worker co-determination and corporate regulation sound a lot like the system that Germany is being forced to abandon because it seems unable to compete in a global economy. If anything, American and European capitalism is trending away from the sort of reforms Greider is proposing. 
To be sure, society sometimes adopts measures that threaten the profitability of some corporations but benefit society as a whole. Such reforms, however, require determined government intercession. Indeed, few of Greider's proposals could occur without significant changes in corporate law and government regulation. Greider occasionally pays lip service to this point ("Obviously, deeper reforms of this nature eventually would require government action, since the structural elements that make the corporation so effective and powerful are embedded in law"), but he soon returns to the Owenite argument that "capitalism can be changed . . . through innovations that eventually become common practice." 
LIKE earlier utopians, Greider seems to want to recreate the past in the guise of the future. He wants to restore the family farm and, by returning the Sherman Antitrust Act to its 1890's interpretation, limit the size of new corporations. He draws his examples from farms, factories and small businesses -- institutions that dominated previous stages of American capitalism. Even his language seems borrowed from the past. He insists, for instance, that today's worker-employer relations can accurately be characterized in terms of "master" and "servant" -- a kind of rhetoric popular a century ago.
Today's America is increasingly a country of offices, hospitals, schools and stores, where ideas and services are often produced in conjunction with the public sector. Relations between employers and employees have become, if anything, extremely complex and multilayered, with employees performing theoretical and supervisory tasks that would have formerly been reserved for management. While a kind of socialism may be emerging within this new capitalism, it would seem to be very different from what Greider describes in "The Soul of Capitalism." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); POLITICS (90%); FAMILY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); LITERATURE (77%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: John B Judis; William Greider

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



508 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: CHILDREN'S BOOKS 

BYLINE:  By Nicholas D. Kristof; Nicholas D. Kristof is an Op-Ed columnist for The Times.

 BODY:
 MOSQUE
Written and illustrated by David Macaulay.
96 pp. Boston:
Walter Lorraine Books/Houghton Mifflin Company. $18. (Ages 8 and up)

MUHAMMAD
Written and illustrated by Demi.
Unpaged. New York:
Margaret K. McElderry Books.
$19.95. (Ages 4 and up)
 NO child is too young to become a cosmopolitan multiculturalist. And now that Islam is a hot topic in America, not to mention probably the fastest-growing religion in the world, two new books offer the discerning young reader a glimpse of the Islamic world.
Well, O.K., these books are probably aimed more at the discerning parents of the undiscerning kid, who will doze as Mom or Dad reads aloud about the mihrab, the minber, the muezzin and other features of Islam. But they make a lovely introduction -- and I mean lovely, for both books are gorgeously illustrated.
David Macaulay is renowned for spectacular children's books with an architectural flavor, among them "Cathedral" and "Pyramid." "Mosque" is a superbly illustrated and technically engrossing explanation of how a great Turkish mosque complex would be built in about 1600. It's like an erector set packed into a book.
Frankly, I had no idea that I was interested in how mosques were put together, but I found the subject fascinating. And I learned how to make a brick and build a dome, and also a good deal about the economics of the Ottoman Empire and the role of the mosque in society. Macaulay's mosque is fictional, but loosely based on those built around Istanbul (then Constantinople) in the late 16th century by Sinan, a great architect of the Ottoman Empire.
Macaulay imagines a Turkish admiral who, in 1595, decides to invest his fortune in a complex that would include not just the mosque but also a tomb (for himself), a religious school, a soup kitchen, a public bath and a public fountain to provide drinking water. As mosques usually are, this one would be a community center as well as a religious focal point.
We're taken through the design process, including some of the complexities of putting a circular dome over a square room. Macaulay explains: "Because of the dome's hemispherical shape, there are hidden forces within it trying to push the sides outward. While piers and arches could easily be designed to support the great weight of a masonry dome, they could not, on their own, counteract its self-destructive tendencies." He explains how the engineering and architecture are allied in tackling this challenge and, wonder of wonders, with colored drawings it is all comprehensible. 
The drawings and text also explain the various elements of the mosque -- all those mysterious "M" words. The mihrab is a niche facing Mecca that symbolizes the entry into paradise. Then there's the minaret, the tower from which the muezzin issues the call to prayer five times a day. And don't forget the minber, the high pulpit used to deliver sermons during Friday prayers.
Macaulay explains that a minaret is built largely without scaffolding -- until the balcony, which bulges out from the rest. The builders simply climb their own creation, raising it as they go.
The mechanics of making a stained-glass window are richly explicated, enhanced by six drawings. So are the methods for decorating the interior with Arabic calligraphy. The pictures grow more colorful and lavish as the mosque nears completion.
Macaulay remains respectful of Islam without fawning. That's a knack that I wish Demi's biography of Muhammad had achieved. Demi has produced other children's books with a spiritual bent, including volumes about Buddha and the Dalai Lama. Her "Muhammad" is spectacular, with dazzling illustrations in a very Islamic style, and I found myself flipping the pages just to admire the pictures. She adheres to the Islamic tradition of not depicting either Muhammad or his family members in pictures, because that might smack of idolatry. So we have a lovely illustrated life that never actually illustrates the subject. Instead, pictures are of random people at that time, or else Muhammad is shown in a golden silhouette.
My guess is that the publisher intends to market this biography to American Muslims, and that's probably a shrewd business move. But it comes across not just as respectful, which would be fine, but as reverential. For example, Demi recounts as fact that Muhammad was visited by the angel Gabriel during Ramadan in 610, and then under divine inspiration began to recite the Koran. Sure, Muslims believe that, but I felt funny reading this aloud -- as historic fact -- to my 6-year-old daughter.
"Muhammad was called upon to be God's messenger," Demi writes, "to make known God's will to the whole of humanity and to show the way to human dignity, progress and real happiness." On the next page, the Koran is described as "the eternal and infallible word of God." Hmm.
Why not just say that Muslims consider the Koran to be the infallible word of God, and leave it at that? Multiculturalist parents may want to expose their children to the world's major religions, but I doubt they want to indoctrinate them.
IT'S a pity, because there's an intellectual struggle in America now about how to portray Islam. Some conservatives, particularly evangelical Christians, see it as "a very evil and wicked religion," as the Rev. Franklin Graham put it. Some Arabists insist that Islam is warm, fuzzy and far more tolerant than other religions, because it accepts Judaism and Christianity as legitimate and just believes they are incomplete.
I fall somewhere between the camps. Islam clearly has a problem with fundamentalism and violence, and it hasn't adapted as well to modernity as some other religions. But the common American perception of overseas Muslims as violent hotheads is the complete opposite of the warmth and hospitality one mostly finds traveling in places like Yemen, Indonesia and Saudi Arabia. It would have been nice to have an introduction to Muhammad or Islam that didn't seem to be written by propagandists for either side.
That's a particular problem with a biography of Muhammad, because his was a time of war and violence, in which he did his share of fighting. In a children's book one doesn't expect a balanced scholarly analysis, but one wants something less saccharine than "People accepted Islam because Muhammad taught God's words that said that all men and women, black and white, rich and poor, must be treated with dignity and respect." The result, unfortunately, will I think be to limit appreciation of this book to Muslim readers -- who least need an introduction to the faith.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Detail of an illustration by David Macaulay from "Mosque."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); RELIGION (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WRITERS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); ENGINEERING (72%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (68%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (93%); MARGARET K MCELDERRY BOOKS (58%); CHILDREN'S BOOKS & TOYS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%) SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: Nicholas D Kristof; David Macaulay; Demi (Writer)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (75%) UNITED STATES (90%); TURKEY (87%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



509 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Pulling Strings to Get Violins Back Into Children's Lives 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD HOLLAND

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, S.C. 

 BODY:
THE defensive posture of classical music these days has been much argued. But in the face of folding orchestras, diminishing finances, vanishing record sales and retracting audiences, there exist stubborn and imaginative pockets of resistance determined, for example, to put string instruments into the hands and ears of children. The University of South Carolina, now a model for the rest of the country, is doing work here that may at best keep the violin a mainstream instrument and at worst provide it a permanent niche. It will not be allowed to become an antique.
 Music history, like most histories, chases its own tail. Only a few centuries ago, the violin and its portlier siblings the viola and the cello were challenges to public civility: strident and vulgar, contaminants threatening the calm and decorum of their close cousins, the family of viols. 
 The viola da braccio and the viola da gamba were the instruments of ladies and gentlemen. Their subdued resonance and their inclination to blend with others suggested principles of discretion and social order. Musically inclined students at 16th-century Oxford "esteemed the violin to be an instrument belonging only to a common fidler and could not endure that it should come among them," as one Anthony Wood wrote in his autobiography at the time. 
Now, with the violin's cultural primacy being challenged by newer instruments like amplified guitars and keyboards, the former threatener has become the threatened. And residents of this Southern city of 500,000, where symphony subscriptions are cherished and the blare of hip-hop and rock inspires public complaint, are rallying to its defense.
The university's String Project is a result of 20-odd years of proselytizing by Robert Jesselson, a professor of cello. His endless hours of grant applications, in-house cheerleading and civic cajoling have created a program that not only teaches 8-to-12-year-olds an art virtually excluded from the pop-music culture around them; it teaches the people who teach them.
The second project is as vital as the first: undergraduate performers steering their lives toward teaching. Mr. Jesselson reports that an astounding 5,000 full-time string-teaching jobs in American public schools regularly go unfilled. When school districts have no one to hire, those that have string programs are likely to discontinue them. Many who do teach strings are actually trained on other instruments.
"When I came here, in 1981, one high school in this district had a string program," said Mr. Jesselson, a man of nervous enthusiasm who studied and has performed in both America and Europe. "Now all five do."
The percentage of the nation's schools offering string and orchestra projects, he adds, has fallen from 67 in 1962 to 19 in 1975 and 16 in 1994. Virginia and Maryland offer growing programs. Mr. Jesselson is particularly proud of the nearby Spartanburg, S.C., public schools, where 800 students, 13 percent of grades 5 through 12, play string instruments and are in orchestras.
The String Project is not part of the public schools but is in deep symbiosis with them. Mr. Jesselson's undergraduates at the university teach one on one and wander among the ranks of young players at the project's orchestra rehearsals, ferreting out bad intonation and adjusting grip and posture. With time, these young teachers-to-be take on some of the rehearsals themselves, stepping in for the String Project's director, Gail Barnes, and its master teacher, Johanna Pollock.
Children arrive by way of newspaper articles, word of mouth and show-and-tell forays into the public schools. Parents pay about $50 a semester and rent instruments. At a recent "informancy," or progress-report concert, about 100 children at one point handed their instruments to their parents, who were then guided in pizzicato performances of simple songs. As the children get older, the public schools absorb them into their own programs.
The String Project can be as much social as musical. In Columbia, the students are strikingly varied in race (last year, of a total of 356, more than a third were black) and economic background (a quarter were below the poverty line and a quarter from families with female heads of household). "Sometimes we feel like a kind of Peace Corps," said one student teacher. Mr. Jesselson remembers a child who asked for a new teacher because her present one resembled a man who had physically abused her. Mastering technical problems of bowing and fingering seems to promote a self-esteem not easily achieved in other areas of their lives.
Several teaching undergraduates began as pupils in the String Project, yet Ms. Barnes and Mr. Jesselson will be happy if all they produce is a future audience at ease and in sympathy with classical music. As much as excellence is valued in this program, attentiveness and enthusiasm are valued even more. Those who try are not turned away.
The South Carolina program is a significant success in what has become the 26-member National String Project Consortium, self-described as a "loose association." Host colleges match modest grants ($10,000) from the consortium. Student teachers are paid for their efforts. In Columbia, they get $1,600 a year: a small amount but still an enticement. Participating schools develop their own programs, which have now spread to every part of the country including New York, where the Brooklyn College Conservatory of Music has a string project.
The prevailing culture of music departments and conservatories has always placed aspiring performers on a higher level than those studying music education. Yet a half dozen undergraduates questioned here all seemed eager for teaching jobs. Still, most expect to keep playing in one group or another, as music teachers sometimes do. A few have already auditioned for Columbia's recently formed community orchestra, which will complement the South Carolina Philharmonic and the well-regarded University of South Carolina Symphony Orchestra.
In Renaissance and Baroque education, music was thought to be as essential to creating civilized young people as mathematics. Mr. Jesselson agrees: "I have a fantasy-theory that if we could find a small town geographically isolated, not near a big city, a place with a stable population and traditionally held back by poverty and a lack of education, and if we could provide a first-class music education for maybe 20 years -- movement and singing for 2- and 3-year-olds building toward instrumental and vocal training -- comparing them with a matched group with less musical background would teach us a lot about the effects of music on children's lives."
The isolation might serve a purpose. A major flaw in classical music's delivery system may indeed be its status as feeder apparatus, with small communities, like minor league baseball teams, weeding out less-than-perfect performers and sending the survivors closer to the top: in rare cases to major orchestras in New York, Boston, Cleveland, Chicago and the like.
Mr. Jesselson's student teachers, from Columbia and cities like it, seem happy to stay where they are. Perhaps classical music should stay there with them. At any rate, a Haydn string quartet movement played at the informancy by four black undergraduates made it clear that classical style and technical competence are not the exclusive property of big cities and international arts centers, nor of any single culture.
"Loose associations" of small communities, each serving its own musical needs, might just be a source of health for an art whose big-time operatives are not doing all that well these days.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gail Barnes of the String Project with her young orchestra. (Photo Courtesy of the String Project, University of South Carolina) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (93%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); POP & ROCK (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); HISTORY (75%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); RAP MUSIC (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



510 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: THEATER; 
The Season of the Female Playwright

BYLINE:  By JASON ZINOMAN

 BODY:
ABOUT 10 years ago, the playwright Theresa Rebeck was having drinks with a well-known male director when he made the kind of blunt comment you hardly ever hear in polite society. As Ms. Rebeck remembers it: " 'Women don't write good plays,' " he said, adding, " 'Look at history: they write good novels, but as for plays, they just don't have the knack for it.' "
 Ms. Rebeck calls this prejudice "the dirty secret of the American theater," and while it's unclear how commonly it is held, there is no question that most of our celebrated playwrights are male and that female writers are responsible for only a small minority of the plays produced in this country. 
 But these historical trends are starting to change -- and the proof is in the listings. Almost all the talked-about plays Off Broadway this fall were written by women.
Downtown, the highest-profile commercial play was "Omnium Gatherum," by Ms. Rebeck and Alexandra Gersten-Vassilaros. Arguably the best-reviewed plays so far this season have been Lisa Loomer's "Living Out," Amy Freed's "Beard of Avon" and Paula Vogel's "Long Christmas Ride Home." And there have also been closely watched new works by Lucy Thurber, Wendy MacLeod, Julia Cho, Brooke Berman and Rona Munro.
Even more encouraging, a new crop of younger women have received major debut productions, including Tracey Scott Wilson, whose play "The Story" closes today at the Public Theater, and Tristine Skyler, whose "Moonlight Room" was seen in a Worth Street Theater Company production that opened in November. 
Another emerging playwright is Julia Jordan, who graduated from Juilliard in 1997 and won the Francesca Primus Prize for her play "Tatjana in Color." She then watched as her male classmates (David Auburn, Stephen Belber) had their plays mounted, while she couldn't get anyone to even read her scripts. "Boys get produced, girls get prizes and get published" is how she described the opportunities available to young writers at the time. But in the last year, Ms. Jordan's fortunes have improved; three of her plays were produced in New York, including "Tatjana in Color," and she has a fourth play, "Boy," opening in April at Primary Stages.
The difference between 2002 and 2003 is striking. Last year's fall season did include New York premieres by Caryl Churchill, Dael Orlandersmith and Elaine May, but the majority of the new plays were written by men and there were hardly any debuts by female playwrights.
Considering the number of plays by women this season, it is hard to believe that only five years ago, the Guerrilla Girls, an anonymous group of activists, protested the exclusion of female playwrights by posting pointed political stickers in the ladies' rooms of major theaters that had not produced a work by a woman inthat season. This year, it would be difficult to find a major Off Broadway theater in which to protest.
"It does seem like there are more women playwrights," said Lynne Meadow, the artistic director of the Manhattan Theater Club. "I remember when I did Beth Henley's 'Crimes of the Heart' " -- in 1980 -- "there weren't many."
The turning point, some playwrights say, was a study on women in theater produced by the New York State Council on the Arts in January 2002. The study was the product of three years of research in theaters across the country. Its statistics confirmed what many female playwrights already thought. Only 17 percent of the plays produced in America were by women, and, the report revealed, the smaller theaters were the more inclusive ones. As the financial stakes increase, the percentage of women declines.
"Everyone read the study," Ms. Rebeck said. "We passed it around like a joint."
Whether it actually changed the way artistic directors programmed their seasons is an open question, but some playwrights think it played a role. "Most people in the theater are liberal, and I'm sure they thought those numbers were scary," Ms. Jordan said.
Another explanation for the rising number of plays by women is that more and more women are running the theaters. "There are certainly more women in power, including directors," Ms. Meadow said. "When I was coming out of Yale in 1969, I was the only woman director. Nowadays, that's certainly not the case."
Ms. Vogel has a more provocative theory for the increase in female playwrights: "I hesitate to say it, but the current situation makes me think of secretaries. There was a time when only men were secretaries. When women started to become secretaries, the pay went down and the job's status went down."
"Today," she added, "the critical and economic climate is so harsh that women are more willing than men to take less remuneration."
Ms. Jordan agreed. "Absolutely," she said. "Men now go straight to film."
Indeed, there remains something of a glass ceiling for female playwrights. While dramatists like Suzan-Lori Parks and Yasmina Reza have had recent commercial success, female writers -- not to mention directors and critics -- remain scarce on Broadway. Wendy Wasserstein and Ms. Reza are the only women to win a Tony for best new play in the last four decades. And the only play written by a woman on Broadway this fall closed before it opened -- "Bobbi Boland" by Nancy Hasty. 
Broadway, of course, has a tendency to be a few steps behind Off Broadway, and since the audience is more than 60 percent female and producers like Daryl Roth and Margo Lion are increasingly making the decisions about what to transfer, don't be surprised if there are more opportunities for female playwrights in the next few years. There has been some talk about a Broadway transfer for "The Beard of Avon," and Regina Taylor's "Drowning Crow," inspired by Chekhov's "Seagull," opens on Broadway at the Manhattan Theater Club's Biltmore Theater on Feb. 19. 
"In two years, there may be a bunch of women on Broadway," said Carole Rothman, the longtime artistic director of the Second Stage Theater. "Clearly, things have already gotten better. I can now give notes in the ladies' room."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Theresa Rebeck, far left, and Alexandra Gersten-Vassilaros, who wrote the play "Omnium Gatherum." (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 4); A STAGE OF ONE'S OWN -- From left: Tristine Skyler ("Moonlight Room"); Julia Jordan ("Tatjana in Color"); Tracey Scott Wilson ("The Story"); Amy Freed ("The Beard of Avon"). (Photos by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times Ms. Skyler and Ms. Wilson ; Michael Nagle for The New York Times Ms. Jordan ; Chang W. Lee/The New York Times Ms. Freed )(pg. 3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER (90%); WRITERS (90%); WOMEN (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); TRENDS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



511 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: Smaller Airports Are Growing in Stature 

BYLINE:  By BARRY ESTABROOK; BARRY ESTABROOK contributes to the Travel section regularly.

 BODY:
BENJAMIN GOLDFARB'S home in Marblehead, Mass., is less than 15 miles from the runways of Logan International Airport in Boston, so close that when the wind blows a certain way, big jets pass directly over his house as they bank for their final approaches. Despite the airport's proximity, Mr. Goldfarb, the director of marketing for a construction company, avoids using Logan. Whenever possible, he drives 55 miles in the opposite direction to take a flight from Manchester, N.H.
 Mr. Goldfarb is far from alone. Across the country, travelers are opting to fly from so-called secondary, or alternative, airports -- smaller airports within reasonable driving time of major cities. 
 From 1996 to 2002, the number of passengers departing from Manchester Airport almost quadrupled, to 1.85 million from 500,332. During the same period, passengers leaving from Logan declined by about 10 percent, to 11 million. 
About 60 miles south of Logan, T.F. Green Airport near Providence, R.I., saw departing passengers more than double, to 2.7 million in 2002 from 1.24 million in 1996. 
Since the late 1990's, business at Westchester County Airport near White Plains and Long Island MacArthur Airport in Islip, N.Y., has expanded substantially while the number of travelers departing from the three large New York area airports remained stagnant until rising a bit this year. In Florida, the Fort Lauderdale airport volume has almost doubled in the last decade, while it has dropped in recent years at nearby Miami International. 
The same is true in Chicago, where Midway has grown dramatically while O'Hare has declined. 
On the West Coast, the story is similar at secondary airports like Long Beach Airport near Los Angeles and Oakland International across the bay from San Francisco. Other alternative airports in those areas, John Wayne in Orange County and Mineta San Jose International, have seen slight growth.
A reason for the surge in popularity of secondary airports is that they are often where the best deals are found. Mr. Goldfarb was first lured north to Manchester in the late 1990's when the discount carrier Southwest began serving the airport. 
"The trend to using secondary airports is especially prevalent among pleasure travelers," said Terry Trippler, the airline specialist for the Web site Cheapseats.com. "It started out as a way to save money, and there are certain areas, Detroit, for instance, where you get better rates by going through nearby airports in Flint or Toledo, which are served by the discount carriers AirTran and ATA. 
"But what I'm finding out is that a lot of people are going to a secondary airport because there is less hassle and they are saving time."
Christine Turneabe-Connelly, a spokeswoman for Southwest, said that one of the airline's biggest challenges in opening a new market is changing people's perceptions and habits. 
"When we started serving Providence, most of our advertising, marketing and public relations efforts were focused on convincing people that there was an alternative just down the road," she said. "And that the alternative was less expensive."
While many travelers may be familiar with alternative airports near their home bases, they are often not aware of the options near their destination cities. 
"If I say Chicago, you don't necessarily think of Milwaukee, but it's only 75 miles away and you may be able to get a better fare," Mr. Trippler said. "The same is true for Miami and Fort Lauderdale and West Palm." 
To help travelers, Mr. Trippler has posted a list of more than 400 cities and the mileage to nearby airports on his own Web site, TerryTrippler.com, under the heading, "Drive a Little and Save a Lot." 
"Americans are notoriously horrible on geography," Mr. Trippler said. "We compiled the list so people going to a particular destination would know the alternatives. It's worth a look at all the alternate airports when you are making plans, and that means both departing and arriving."
Internet booking sites, including Orbitz.com, Bestfares.com and Cheapseats.com, also allow users to select the option to search other airports near a destination city for better fares. Most travel agents can find the same information through their computer reservation systems if clients make it clear that they are willing to drive to and from secondary airports.
Southwest and other low-cost carriers, like ATA, AirTran and JetBlue, use alternative airports for two primary reasons, said Bob Harrell of Harrell Associates, airline consultants.
"These airports are cheaper for the airlines because landing fees are less expensive," he said. "They also tend to be less congested than major airports, so the airlines can turn their planes around more quickly, and that's a big economic benefit." 
While major airlines have made cutbacks to service since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, discount airlines have seen their business grow dramatically, to 22 percent of airline passengers flown this spring compared with 15 percent in 1995, according to the federal Bureau of Transportation Statistics. Secondary airports have benefited from the success of the low-cost airlines. 
"Most of the growth in the last five years has been with low-cost carriers," Mr. Harrell said. "The major airlines, which tend to operate out of major airports, have been cutting back."
To accommodate the growth, some secondary airports are expanding. Baltimore/Washington International Airport is in the middle of a $1.8 billion program that will see additions to its terminals, new roadways and more parking lots. In 2002, Oakland International Airport began a similar expansion budgeted to cost $1.4 billion.
At secondary airports, we become the big fish in a little pond as opposed to being a little fish in a big sea," said Ms. Turneabe-Connelly of Southwest. "If the airport's not a major hub, you don't have to worry about banks of flights coming in at the same time and slowing our operations down. Our turnaround times -- from when our planes dock to when they push back -- are about 20 minutes, less than half of what you see from major airlines."
Once a low-cost carrier begins serving an airport, major competitors often follow with matching fares. 
"In 1998, Southwest began coming here," said Kevin Dillon, director of Manchester Airport. "That same year, three other airlines started competitive service here in response to Southwest's entry. It even affects routes not served by Southwest, because people expect that level of fare from our carriers."
Mr. Dillon, who until 1996 was director of operations at Logan, said that airline airport fees at Manchester averaged less than $5 a passenger, about half of Logan's.
While cheaper fares first lured him to Manchester, Mr. Goldfarb has found other reasons to keep coming back. 
"Logan is definitely closer, but is an extreme hassle to get there," he said. "Depending on the traffic, the drive can take anywhere from 35 minutes to an hour and a half, or longer. You can never anticipate how long it's going to take, but you have to allow for the worst. Then when you get there, you have the parking issues, if you can find a spot. 
"Getting to Manchester is a relaxing drive," he continued. "Parking is never a problem, even on a holiday weekend. It's also much cheaper: $8 versus $16. My wife and I go inside and have a nice meal while we wait for our flight."
Intangibles are also a big draw for passengers using Long Beach Airport. 
"We have easy access," said Sharon Diggs-Jackson, public affairs officer at Long Beach Airport. "Close to Los Angeles and surrounded by four freeways. Parking is $6, and the average time from the curb out front to the gate is a half-hour. And if it's sunny, people can sit outside while they wait and watch the planes take off and land." 
Business at Long Beach has surged to 41 commercial flight departures a day from 14 in 2001. That is when JetBlue began offering discount service between Long Beach and Kennedy in New York, Dulles near Washington, Las Vegas, Salt Lake City, Oakland and Fort Lauderdale (it is adding Boston flights in January).
But there are some disadvantages to going the alternative airport route. 
"The biggest downside is that you don't have the number of flight options at a small airport that you do at a large one," Mr. Trippler said. "Suppose your flight gets canceled. At a small airport, that may be your last chance to get to your destination that day. If you were at a LaGuardia, Kennedy or a Newark, maybe there would be 15 more flights that day."
Even Mr. Goldfarb is willing to venture into the confusion of Logan, if circumstances warrant. In October, he and his wife took a trip to Aruba and booked an economical charter flight from Logan because none were available through Manchester. 
"But, all else being equal, I would have rather flown out of Manchester," he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Less-congested Manchester (N.H.) Airport, left, has attracted fliers from Logan International in Boston, right. (Photographs by Brian Snyder for The New York Times Logan and Associated Press Manchester ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (96%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (76%); LEISURE TRAVEL (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (91%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (75%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (74%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (56%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (53%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



512 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1851 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN; 
Santiago

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER; LARRY ROHTER is chief of the Rio de Janeiro bureau of The Times.

 BODY:
A recent poll found that Santiago now ranks just behind Miami and Sao Paulo as the destination most visited by travelers doing business in Latin America, and that traffic is sure to increase after Jan. 1, when a new free-trade agreement between the United States and Chile takes effect. It is worth remembering, though, that the Chilean capital also offers plenty of attractions for the tourist who has come to spend rather than make money.
 Set against the dramatic backdrop of the Andes, Santiago, founded in 1541, has been transformed over the last decade or so by Chile's booming economy into a dynamic, self-confident and prosperous metropolis. Besides the burst of national pride that the trade accord has encouraged, the new year will also bring the centennial of the birth of Pablo Neruda, the national poet, and Santiago's designation as the Cultural Capital of the Americas, with events marking both occasions once summer vacation ends in March. 
 Still, the start of summer is a good time to explore the capital. The smog lifts, leaving the magnificent snowcapped mountains to the east visible on most days, and the frenetic rhythm of life in a city increasingly focused on accumulating wealth slows a bit, as many residents head off to relax at resorts, weekend houses and beaches on the Pacific Coast, barely an hour's drive away. 
Getting around the sprawling capital is easy thanks to a subway that is modern, efficient and safe. Neighborhoods at the eastern end of the No.1 line, like Providencia, Vitacura and Las Condes, are so clogged with fashionable shops, clubs and restaurants that Chileans have taken to calling that area Sanhattan.
Compared with its Andean neighbors, Chile seems expensive, starting with the $100 entry fee that Americans pay when they land at the airport for the first time. Thanks largely to the stable economy and the imminent free-trade accord, the peso has strengthened by more than 10 percent against the dollar since September, bolstering Chileans' conviction that they are at last ready to join the developed world.

Events
The Providencia Jazz Festival aims to encourage people to stay in the city during the summer, with artists from countries as distant as Poland and South Africa scheduled to perform this year. Representing the United States are the fusion pianist Rachel Z and Clifford Adams, trombonist, formerly of Kool and the Gang. At Parque Balmaceda, Jan. 5 through 9. Admission is free, with shows starting at 9 p.m.
Spanish royalty, politicians and investors have flocked to Chile recently, but the most welcome visitor is surely an exhibition of works by the Catalonian artist Joan Miro on loan from the Reina Sofia museum in Madrid. Most of the pieces are Surrealist lithographs, but his lesser-known experiments with sculpture are also represented. Till Jan. 25 at the Sala de Arte Fundacion Telefonica, Providencia 111. Closed Monday; free.
With its collection of artifacts ranging from Aztec to Inca civilizations, the Museum of Pre-Columbian Art, downtown at Bandera 361, is perhaps the most interesting and best organized in Santiago, and thus always worth visiting. But a special exhibition that runs through April 2004, called "Quipu: the Inca Art of Counting by Knots," explains in fascinating detail how the Incas were able to administer their vast empire without a writing system. Admission is $3, at 637 pesos to the dollar. Closed Monday. Call (56-2) 688-7348 for information.
For decades, the highlight of the Southern Hemisphere summer has been the Vina del Mar Music Festival, in the beach resort of the same name, an hour's drive from the capital. This season's edition runs from Feb. 18 through 23, and while the list of performers hasn't been finalized, artists ranging from the pop balladeer Luis Miguel to rock 'n' rollers like Fito Paez have performed in the recent past. Tickets are available from Ticketmaster, (56-2) 690-2320, with prices ranging from $13 to $85.

Sightseeing
To get the feel of Santiago and its people, there is no better way to start than a stroll along one of the two bustling pedestrian walkways that bisect downtown, the Paseo Ahumada and Paseo Huerfanos. Both streets are lined with shops, cafes and ice cream parlors and crowded with santiaguenos, as residents of the capital are known, doing business or just relaxing. An obligatory stopping point is the Plaza de Armas, which is flanked by the Metropolitan Cathedral and several colonial buildings.
When Santiago residents want to get away from the noise, especially on weekends, their favorite refuge is the Cerro San Cristobal and the adjoining Parque Metropolitano. Crisscrossed by bike trails and hiking paths, the park is topped by a statue of the Virgin Mary that offers a commanding view of the city. Access to the summit is by cable car (not recommended for those with a fear of heights) or by rail from Bella Vista, with a combined ticket costing $3.60. Transport available until 9 p.m. on weekends, till 8 weekdays.
With the city's gentrification, whole neighborhoods now swarm with exercise academies, tanning salons and cigar and sushi bars. But Bella Vista, the district lodged between San Cristobal and Santa Lucia hills, has managed to preserve part of its bohemian charm. Pablo Neruda lived there, at Calle Fernando Marquez de la Plata 192, in a house that is now a museum; admission $3. At night the area comes alive with restaurants, bars, nightclubs and theaters, and during the day shops selling lapis lazuli are a lure.
Chile is renowned for its wines, and since many of the leading vineyards are just south of Santiago, a visit to a winery makes a perfect day trip. Leading vineyards such as Concha y Toro, Virginia Subercaseaux 210 in Pirque, (56-2) 476-5000, or Cousino Macul, Quilin 7100 in Penalolen, (56-2) 351-4100, conduct weekday tours by appointment, but it is probably easiest just to sign up for a group tour. Agencies like Turistour, (56-2) 488-0444, www.turistour .com, have full-day packages to the main Maipo Valley vineyards for as little as $17.

Where to Stay
The Hotel Carrera, Teatinos 180, (56-2) 698-2011, fax (56-2) 672-1083, www.carrera.cl, is the elegant doyenne of Santiago hotels, an Art Deco masterpiece that has enjoyed a privileged downtown vantage point since 1940. The 305 rooms are spacious, many overlooking Plaza La Moneda and the presidential palace. But its days are numbered: the Carrera is scheduled to close for good on Feb. 28 to become the new home of the foreign ministry. Until then, bargains are available: a double room starts at $118, including breakfast at a 16th-floor restaurant with a spectacular view of the city. 
The Santiago Park Plaza, Ricardo Lyon 207, (56-2) 233-6363, fax (56-2) 233-8521, www.parkplaza.cl, strives to be quiet, cozy and tasteful, with 104 rooms furnished in a polished English country style. Some of the rooms may be a tad small, but others have fireplaces and Persian rugs, and the location off a main street in Providencia near leading shops couldn't be better. Doubles from $125 a night, breakfast included. 
Budget: The Sheraton Four Points, Santa Magdalena 111, (56-2) 750-0300, fax (56-2) 750-0350, or www .fourpoints.com, is conveniently located in the heart of Providencia, just a block away from Los Leones subway stop on the area's main shopping street and nearly as close to popular stores, restaurants, and the bars and nightclubs of Avenida Suecia. A favorite of airline crews and businessmen, with 128 rooms and prices starting at $99 a night, breakfast not included.
Luxury: Of the hotels that have sprung up in the fast-growing Las Condes area east of the city, the Hyatt Regency, Kennedy 4601, (56-2) 218-1234, fax (56-2) 218-2513, or www.santiago.regency.hyatt.com, probably offers the most amenities, including tennis courts. The only disadvantage is that it is quite a way from downtown and the main tourist sites. There are 310 rooms, with doubles starting at $150. 
Closer in, near the Tobalaba subway stop, the parks that line the Mapocho River and Los Leones Golf Club, is the Radisson, Vitacura 2610; (56-2) 203-6000, fax (56-2) 337-3111. Business visitors make up much of the clientele, since the hotel adjoins the Santiago World Trade Center, but the convenience of being a short walk from top restaurants and shopping malls draws others. Many of the 159 rooms have sweeping views east toward the Andes, with doubles from $150 a night, breakfast included. 

Where to Eat
Santiago still lags far behind Sao Paulo and Buenos Aires as a center of gastronomy, but Osadia, Tobalaba 477, (56-2) 232-2732, fax (56-2) 231-4738, represents a big step in that direction. The restaurant's name means "daring," and that attitude is reflected both in the very postmodern, hip atmosphere, with holes in the wall and lamps that look like snakes, and in the innovative menu, mixing ingredients like Thai shrimp and Inca corn in the same dish. Lunch and dinner Monday to Saturday. Dinner for two with a medium-price bottle of Chilean wine, about $100. 
With nearly 3,000 miles of Pacific coastline to explore, it is no wonder that Chileans have a reputation for eating everything that swims or floats. Santiago abounds in restaurants with good seafood, but one of the most picturesquely situated is the Camino Real in the Parque Metropolitano; telephone and fax (56-2) 232-1758, www.eventoscaminoreal.cl. A typical meal, at a balcony table looking toward the Andes, starts with a tuna or salmon carpaccio, followed by a rich caldillo, or stew, of conger eel and shrimp. Lunch and dinner daily. Meal for two, with Chilean wine, about $80. 
Santiago's greatest concentration of good eating places in one location may well be the complex called Borde Rio, at Monsenor Escriva de Balaguer 6400 in Vitacura, much like Harbor Place in Baltimore or Bayside in Miami, with restaurants on two stories on both sides of a central walkway. Fine restaurants with Spanish, Italian, Peruvian and Japanese cuisine can be found there, but for typical Chilean dishes, from Easter Island tuna to Patagonian lamb, the place to go is Ibis de Puerto Varas, (56-2) 218-0111, fax (56-2) 218-0112. Lunch and dinner daily. Dinner for two with wine: $65. 
Visiting heads of state in search of a quintessentially Chilean experience are often taken to lunch at Donde Augusto, (56-2) 672-2829, fax (56-2) 696-8069, one of the many excellent fish restaurants in the wrought-iron Mercado Central at the corner of San Pablo and Paseo Puente. The stews are deliciously fresh, made with ingredients that come from fishmongers in nearby stalls; unusual dishes ranging from abalone to sea urchins are also available. Lunch only (to 4 p.m.) for two with a pisco sour, the national drink, $60.
A cheap, quick and convenient place for lunch or dinner is Gatsby, (56-2) 233-0732, near the Pedro de Valdivia subway stop at Providencia 1984. An all you-can-eat buffet, with main dishes ranging from chicken to paella, is open daily noon to 4 p.m. and 7 to 11 p.m., with dessert and nonalcoholic beverages included in the weekday price of $8 for adults and $4 for children (slightly higher on weekends). 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A view of the Andes from Santa Lucia Hill in downtown Santiago. Wine is tested for color before being tasted. Mercado Central. (Photographs by Carlos Barria/Reuters, for The New York Times) Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Santiago, Chile. (Sources: Runzheimer International, Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas, Fodor's World Weather Guide, local businesses) Map of Santiago, Chile, shows tourist attractions and points of interests.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); RANKINGS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); BEACHES (76%); FESTIVALS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); SMOG (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (65%); JAZZ & BLUES (65%); SCULPTURE (65%); RESTAURANTS (64%); EXHIBITIONS (63%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (60%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (96%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%) CHILE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); SPAIN (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



513 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME; 
In Trenton, Changes for A Loan Law

BYLINE:  By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
SIX months ago, New Jersey joined a growing list of states that have enacted laws to protect consumers from being victimized by unscrupulous mortgage lenders. The New Jersey law took effect on Nov. 28, but efforts are already under way to change it.
 Supporters -- including state chapters of national organizations like AARP and the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, an advocacy organization for low- and moderate-income families -- say the Home Ownership Security Act will curb "predatory lending" practices in the state by discouraging lenders from making abusive high-cost loans to borrowers who are least able to afford them. 
 Critics, however, say that while the law may be a good-faith effort to protect consumers, its provisions are so vague and its reach so broad it could end up hurting the very people it was intended to help. In fact, some lenders, lawyers and title insurance professionals say, the law will make it virtually impossible for lenders to sell what the trade calls "high-cost mortgages" to the agencies that package them as securities to resell to investors. This will make it even more difficult, critics say, for those who need such mortgages -- typically, borrowers with less-than-perfect credit -- to get them. 
The law has created such a stir among lenders that they have already persuaded state legislators to propose amendments to the law, even though it has been effect for less than one month.
"We need this law because there is a certain segment of lenders and brokers who were making loans with abusive terms," said Linda Fisher, chairwoman of AARP's Predatory Lending Committee in New Jersey. "And the victims are generally poor or older people who have built up equity in their homes."
Ms. Fisher, a professor at Seton Hall University's School of Law, said she had been involved in cases where homeowners have paid as much as 20 percent of the mortgage amount in fees. "Loans with fees exceeding 10 percent of the loan amount are not at all that uncommon," she said.
Ken Zimmerman, executive director of the New Jersey Institute for Social Justice, a Newark-based urban research and advocacy organization, said the Home Ownership Security Act covers "high-cost home loans." A loan gets this designation, he said, when the combination of the lender's fees and other charges for making the loan exceed 5 percent of the loan amount. 
Mortgage loans of less than $40,000, Mr. Zimmerman said, come under the law if the fees and charges total $1,000 or 6 percent of the mortgage amount, whichever is less.
A mortgage is also considered a "high-cost home loan" when the interest rate being charged is 8 percentage points or more above the going rate being paid on United States Treasury bills. For loans other than first mortgages -- home equity loans, for example -- the interest-rate trigger is 10 points above the Treasury rate. So, if the interest rate being paid on 10-year United States Treasury bill is 4 percent, a 10-year home equity loan would be considered a "high-cost home loan" if the interest rate charged was 14 percent or more. 
For high-cost home loans, Mr. Zimmerman said, the law prohibits the lender from using more than 2 percent of the proceeds of the loan to pay for fees and other charges. And for loans in which any fees come out of the proceeds of the loan, the law requires lenders to ensure that the borrower has obtained independent financial counseling before taking out the loan. 
The law also governs "covered home loans," defined in most cases as loans with fees and charges of more than 4 percent of the total loan amount (a category that, by definition, includes all "high-cost home loans"). When a new loan is considered a covered home loan, the law prohibits using that loan to refinance -- or "flip" -- an existing loan made within the last five years unless the borrower will receive a "reasonable, tangible net benefit." 
"If the law discourages abusive lending, then it is doing exactly what it was designed to do," Mr. Zimmerman said.
Some specialists, however, say that the law may end up making it more difficult for borrowers who have less-than-perfect credit to obtain loans because it discourages lenders from making "high-risk" loans. "There are a number of problems with the law that are making mortgage lenders in New Jersey very nervous," said Lee David Medinets, general counsel for Madison Title Agency in Lakewood. 
Mr. Medinets said one fundamental concern is that the law is too vague. For example, he said, while the law prohibits "flipping" an old mortgage by refinancing it with a covered loan within five years unless the borrower will receive a "reasonable, tangible, net benefit," it does not clearly define what such a benefit is. 
"And the penalties for violating the law can be outrageous," he said. Mr. Medinets noted that the act provides for damages equal to all finance charges agreed to by the borrower plus 10 percent of the amount financed. And in cases where it can be proved that the lender was "malicious" or had "reckless intent," the court can also impose punitive damages plus court costs and attorney fees. "In such a case, the maximum recovery would be the total amount of the loan and costs," he said.
Since a violation of the law also constitutes a violation of the state's consumer fraud statute, Mr. Medinets said, a borrower can, as an alternative, sue for triple damages under that law.
Moreover, he said, the law applies not only to the brokers or mortgage lenders who are directly involved in making a covered mortgage loan to a homeowner, but to any subsequent purchaser or assignee of that mortgage. In other words, if a mortgage broker violates the law by "flipping" a customer's mortgage and that mortgage is ultimately sold on the secondary mortgage market to an investor as part of a package of loans that have been turned into securities, the investor could be held just as liable to the borrower as the original broker. "This is almost certainly going to affect the secondary market," Mr. Medinets said.
Moreover, the act specifically prohibits having a "balloon payment" on a high-cost loan, another provision that could limit the availability of high-cost loans to those who need them.
Leonard Bernstein, a Princeton lawyer who represents lenders, said the New Jersey law contains a confusing definition of the term "point," which is a charge equal to 1 percent of the loan amount. For example, he said, while a loan that carries more than 5 percent of the loan amount in fees and points is automatically considered a "high-cost loan" subject to the act, there are certain types of points that are not automatically included in the 5 percent calculation. In other words, he said, if a borrower agrees to pay an additional "discount" point or two up front to obtain a lower interest rate, those points are not included in the 5 percent "trigger" calculation for a high-cost loan. 
Even the original sponsor has a problem with the law. State Senator Barbara Buono, a Democrat from Edison, said that she has introduced an amendment to the law that will provide the Department of Banking with the authority it needs to promulgate regulations that with resolve and ambiguities in the law.
H. Robert Tillman, director of the state's Division of Banking, said he would welcome the change. "This law is tough, but we can make it work," Mr. Tillman said. "In order for a subprime lender to compete effectively, they will need to lower their rates and fees. The bottom line is that this act is going to compel competition."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); LAWYERS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); FAMILY (71%); INSURANCE (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); TITLE INSURANCE (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (58%); ASSOCIATION OF COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS FOR REFORM NOW (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (88%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



514 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial; Pg. 4; THE RIGHT THING

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: With the Benefit of Hindsight, a Year-End Mea Culpa

BYLINE: By JEFFREY L. SEGLIN. 
Jeffrey L. Seglin teaches at Emerson College in Boston and is the author of ''The Right Thing: Conscience, Profit and Personal Responsibility in Today's Business'' (Spiro Press). His column appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: rightthng@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
DIFFICULT business decisions are rarely black and white. Often, it is only after working through complex issues, assessing facts and weighing choices that we can try to do the right deed for the right reason. The same is true when reporting and writing these columns: we gather the information and try to make the best choices with the best intentions possible. 
 Every good journalist tries to present the truth as it appears, but there are always different perspectives on truth, and reality. Sometimes, try as we may, we may not capture the various shades of gray, or understand that changes may be in the offing that will alter our perspective on that reality. Often, however, we don't discover shortcomings unless a reader or a subject points them out to us. 
 For this column, I contacted many people I had profiled earlier this year to see how I had done. In that spirit, and with the benefit of hindsight, here is my attempt to revisit and reconcile things as we head into 2004:
 First, some corrections. In February, I wrote about Barbara Ley Toffler, the author of ''Final Accounting: Ambition, Greed and the Fall of Arthur Andersen'' (Broadway Books, 2003) and her failed efforts to run an ethics consulting group at Arthur Andersen. Ms. Toffler had taught organizational behavior at Harvard Business School, not business ethics, as stated in the column.
 In October, I wrote that Barry Minkow, the founder of ZZZZ Best, a carpet-cleaning company, who served seven and a half years in prison for defrauding investors, still owed millions to the victims of his crimes. Mr. Minkow, now a minister, said that he legally owes millions to one victim, Union Bank, because a federal judge had dismissed the rest of his restitution order. I confirmed this with Thom Mrozek, a spokesman for the United States attorney's office in Los Angeles.
 Now, some updates. As the United States was at war in Iraq last April, I cited March data from the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index that showed consumer confidence had fallen to its lowest point since October 1992. I commented that this might indicate that consumers felt it inappropriate to shop while American soldiers were in combat. Well, if there was any hesitation, it was apparently short-lived. The index has risen since March; in November, it reached its highest level since May 2002. 
 Last month, I wrote about how some leaders have increasingly used ignorance as justification for questionable actions. One of many examples I cited was the continued assertion by Vice President Dick Cheney that he was no longer involved with the Halliburton Company. Mr. Cheney served as chief executive of Halliburton, the huge oil-field services company based in Houston, from 1995 to 2000. ''I've severed all my ties with the company,'' he said during an appearance on ''Meet the Press'' in September.
 Halliburton was awarded a no-competition contract to repair Iraq's oil industry, and it has already received more than $1.4 billion in work. A Pentagon audit released earlier this month found evidence that Halliburton had overcharged the government for fuel delivered to Iraq. 
 Stock options to buy Halliburton stock are indeed held in Mr. Cheney's name in a gift administration agreement, and he has reported receiving $367,690 in deferred compensation while serving as vice president. 
 After the column appeared, the vice president's personal attorney told me that readers would have recognized this as a nonissue if I had clarified that Mr. Cheney had bought insurance on his deferred compensation and would receive it regardless of the company's fortunes, and that while the stock options were in Mr. Cheney's name, all of the proceeds of those options would ultimately go to charity. 
 Mr. Cheney's lawyer had a good point and, in retrospect, I might have provided more details on the intricacies of Mr. Cheney's continued relationship to Halliburton. But it doesn't diminish the fact that Mr. Cheney still maintains ties to Halliburton.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christophe Vorlet) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS ETHICS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); WRITERS (77%); CARPET & UPHOLSTERY CLEANING SERVICES (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); JUDGES (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (82%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (82%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (82%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (82%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (82%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2004



515 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 3255 words

HEADLINE: Rebuilding Iraq Is . . . Nothing a Few Middle-Class Guys Couldn't Solve 

BYLINE:  By John Tierney; John Tierney, who spent several months reporting in Iraq, is a correspondent in the Times's Washington bureau.

 BODY:
Before getting into the many reasons freedom is doomed in Iraq, consider a cheery counterexample. If you believe the political-science dictum that the bourgeoisie is the essential first ingredient for democracy, then there is at least one bit of good news in Baghdad today. Nader Hindo has come back to do business.
 Never mind the car bombs, the missile attacks, the kidnappings, the blackouts, the ransacked buildings and bombed-out phone system. To Hindo these are minor obstacles compared with what he saw growing up in Baghdad under Saddam Hussein. His mother, Nidhal, the owner of a document-translation service, was regularly harassed and shaken down by the "economic security" police. His father, Wathiq, who tried importing liquor and cigarettes, was muscled out of business by Uday Hussein and nearly executed for being "an economic saboteur." When Hindo finished high school in 1992, he left his family in Baghdad for the University of Illinois with no intention of returning. After studying computer science, he became a partner in a dot-com selling mortgage software to banks. When American troops entered Baghdad, he was 29 years old and living in a Miami condo with a swimming pool and a view of the ocean -- bourgeois bliss in South Beach. 
 Now Hindo is back in Baghdad, which starts to look like capitalism's promised land when he takes you around in his S.U.V. to show his projects. He is running an Internet service, supplying computers and satellite telephone service to three dozen hotels and businesses, plus he's negotiating to rebuild part of the national phone system. These are just his sideline businesses. He has got several bigger ventures going with his father. Together they're selling power generators to the United States Army, building materials to contractors and drilling equipment to the oil industry. They're overseeing 250 workers busy on the reconstruction of a dozen mansions, ministries and other buildings. On weekends, they scout the mountains and lakes of Kurdistan, where they're planning to build resort hotels.
Yes, resort hotels in Iraq. The country is not yet a tourist destination, but the Hindos figure it's just a matter of time. They'll start with low-budget weekend getaway hotels for American soldiers and Iraqis. (Wathiq's market research, which consists of interviewing cabdrivers, convinces him that aworking-class Iraqi can afford to spend $100 for a once-a-year vacation.) Then they'll work up to luxury resorts for foreign tourists once there's improved security -- which, of course, is another business of theirs. They are supplying nearly 500 security guards and personal bodyguards to government ministries, foreign companies, embassies, museums and theaters.
"We can definitely solve the security problems," Hindo says. "We
just need to have more police and security guards on the streets -- mainly guards, because nobody wants to create a huge armed force under the control of any one political entity. It's safer to have the work done by multiple private security companies." 
The Hindos, who use profits from existing ventures to finance new ones, are so confident in Iraq's new private sector that they've published trial issues of a journal covering business. It may be a while before their publication has a broad readership -- most foreign companies are still reluctant to invest in Iraq -- but the Hindos are not as crazy as you might think. News reports of car bombs and missile attacks give Americans the sense that Iraq is steadily descending into chaos, but these attacks don't affect most Iraqis, especially outside Baghdad and the "Sunni triangle." With more police on the streets, people have been returning to Baghdad's bazaars and restaurants. Most Iraqis are still unemployed and poor, but a certain segment of the population -- those working on American-bankrolled reconstruction projects or public employees who have received American-financed salary increases -- suddenly have a lot more disposable income. The opening of the borders and slashing of tariffs has set off a run on the emblems of middle-class materialism: cars, stoves, refrigerators, televisions and satellite dishes. Pollsters have repeatedly found that most Iraqis expect better times ahead. In a national survey of nearly 400 small- and medium-size businesses conducted in August by the Iraqi American Chamber of Commerce and Industry, a majority of business owners said they expected their own companies to expand along with the national economy. 
"There are so many opportunities here," Nader says. "We're still dealing with a sleeping class of people. After Saddam, Iraqis aren't used to getting things done quickly. The concept of a business appointment still has no meaning here. Because the phones have been so bad, people just show up and expect you to talk to them whenever they arrive. But they'll learn. We can have a resurgence of the middle class. Iraqis have a work ethic. They're businessmen by nature."
You hear similar optimism from the American business czar George Wolfe, director of economic policy for the occupation authority. "Before Saddam's reign, this appears to have been a well-educated, professional, entrepreneurial economy," he says. "Although a generation has been damaged by Saddam's reign, the culture is relatively entrepreneurial. That will manifest itself again as we move forward."
It's comforting to think that entrepreneurs like Nader Hindo will succeed, because if the bourgeoisie can become free and prosperous, so should Iraq. Even Karl Marx admired capitalists' revolutionary powers. In "The Communist Manifesto," he wrote that within barely a century the bourgeoisie had "created more massive and more colossal productive forces than have all preceding generations together." The rise of a burgher class to counterbalance the power of the state was the essential precursor to freedom. As Barrington Moore Jr. put it "Social Origins of Dictatorship and Democracy," his 1966 poli-sci classic: "No bourgeois, no democracy."
The precise correlation between wealth and democracy was made nearly half a century ago by the political scientist Seymour Lipset, who concluded that the "more well-to-do a nation, the greater the chance it will sustain democracy." This was recently confirmed by Adam Przeworski, a professor of politics at New York University. After surveying five decades of democratic experiments around the world, he and other political scientists found that democracy has a good chance of surviving if a country's per-capita annual income exceeds $3,000. Once income reaches $6,000 the odds of survival are better than 99 percent. 
Iraq, unfortunately, is well below those levels, with a per-capita income of between $1,500 and $2,400. And the odds of democracy look worse still when you consider its location. While the merchant middle class has been spreading freedom in the rest of the world, the Arab sphere in the Middle East and North Africa remains the only region without a single democracy. Middle Easterners don't lack commercial instincts: they created the Ur trading center near Baghdad 6,000 years ago, and their bazaars are legendary. A thousand years ago, without the protection of international law, Middle Eastern traders operated from one end of the Mediterranean to the other. Muhammad was himself a merchant. But instead of evolving into free societies with an entrepreneurial middle class, the countries of the Middle East became despotic regimes with moribund economies exporting little besides carpets and oil (and emigrants who ran businesses abroad). In international comparative surveys, Middle Eastern countries score high in illiteracy and perceptions of corruption, low in economic growth and freedom. 
Some scholars have taken to blaming Islam -- or, more precisely, a current fundamentalist interpretation of Islam. While Muhammad and the Koran were not hostile to business enterprise, this theory goes, clerics have interpreted Islamic theology to exclude foreign ideas and outlaw innovation. 
Other scholars say the problem is not so much Islam as Arab culture, in particular what sociologists call "amoral familism." The term was coined in the 1950's to describe the moral code in southern Italy: paramount loyalty to your own family at the expense of the rest of society. The resulting lack of trust in strangers was blamed for the economic gap between northern and southern Italy. In the prosperous north, large companies could expect loyalty from their employees and fair treatment from judges and other public officials, but in the south family loyalties led to nepotism, corruption and an economy dominated by old-fashioned family businesses instead of by modern corporations -- the Mafia instead of Fiat.
Clan loyalties are even more intense in Iraq than in Sicily, since nearly half of Iraqis are married to a first or a second cousin, and each of these tightly knit families belongs to a tribe with further demands for loyalty. The success stories in Iraqi business are family companies, like the ones run by the Hindos. Putting your family and tribe first doesn't make it impossible to do deals. Capitalism, after all, is built on the premise that selfish strangers can cooperate for mutual advantage. But tribal allegiances leave everyone insecure, since there is always a chance that another clan with more political power will demand a cut of the profits or simply take over the business for its own members. 
"In the Middle East, the family is a fortress against the rest of the society and amassive obstacle to democratic politics and economic efficiency," says Lawrence E. Harrison of the Fletcher School at Tufts University and co-editor of an anthology, "Culture Matters: How Values Shape Human Progress." In Harrison's view, the plans to quickly transform postwar Iraq into another Germany or Japan are unrealistic. "Iraq is much more like Bolivia or Venezuela or Haiti in 1961 than Germany or Japan in 1945," says Harrison, a veteran of the frustrating efforts of the United States government to export democracy to Latin America in the 60's. "Germany and Japan were modern, cohesive societies with literate men and women and cultures that valued innovation and entrepreneurship. Relative to today's Iraq, a cup of tea." 
Iraq's oil reserves might seem to be its economic salvation, creating the kind of per-capita wealth necessary to support democracy. But oil has a perverse effect on politics and economic development. Easy money corrupts. As oil royalties flow to the capital, politicians use the money to consolidate power. They build armies and secret police forces and dispense favors. Courtiers displace the bourgeoisie. You can see the effect of this "resource curse," as researchers call it, in studies correlating mineral wealth with authoritarianism, corruption and economic stagnation. If its oil money is allowed to flow directly into the hands of a new ruling elite, Iraq might well become another Nigeria or Saudi Arabia.
Yet in spite of all these obstacles, a few bourgeois Iraqis have somehow survived. The Hindos' business sense may have something to do with their training in America -- Nader's father got an M.B.A. at Loyola University in Chicago -- and their being part of the tiny Christian minority in Iraq. ("The Christians are called the Jews of Iraq because we're the merchant and professional class," Nader says.) But they see plenty of entrepreneurial zeal among their Muslim business partners who have never been to the West. The Hindos primarily blame politics, not culture, for Iraq's economic backwardness, and so do many experts. 
"Culture matters, but culture can change if the right political institutions are in place," says Fareed Zakaria, whose new book, "The Future of Freedom," analyzes democratic successes and failures around the world. "Social scientists once thought Catholic and Confucian countries couldn't modernize. The key to democracy in Iraq is reducing the state's role in the economy and establishing the rule of law. If you guarantee basic freedoms and property rights and enable a bourgeoisie to create wealth, genuine democracy will follow."
But if those rights are not guaranteed, if the new government retains control of oil and remains what Zakaria calls a "trust-fund state," the bourgeoisie could become vulnerable again. It's hard to imagine any new rulers (or warlords) being as bad as Saddam Hussein, but then again, it was hard to imagine what Baathism would become in the 1970's, when oil money started flowing. That was when Wathiq Hindo returned to Iraq from business school in Chicago for a job in the oil ministry.
"Iraq was suddenly given an immense amount of wealth, and I felt that economics would solve our problems," Wathiq recalls. "The regime would maintain law and order, and prosperity would prevail. But instead the regime started expanding the army. In 1982, after we went to war with Iran, I knew this was not a very good place, and I got out of the government so I could leave the country." Hussein's growing police state, though, wouldn't let him leave, so he stayed through the first gulf war, supporting himself by importing the few items still permitted under the international trade embargo -- food, cigarettes, liquor. One day in 1991, shortly after Iraq's defeat, the economic security police appeared at his door and took him to jail. 
They offered no explanation for his arrest, but he detected a pattern when he saw more than three dozen prisoners crowded into the 20-by-20-foot cell. "These were the Rockefellers and Heinzes of Iraq," he says. "Big, big wholesale merchants." Wathiq could guess why they were there. The gulf war and international sanctions had devastated the economy, creating widespread shortages and driving up prices of basic goods. Saddam Hussein needed cash and wanted to make merchants the scapegoats for high prices. After three days in the cell without being told the charges against him, Wathiq told the guard he wanted to confess. 
He was brought before a judge who finally revealed his crime: importing a truckload of whiskey from Jordan without paying a newly enacted tariff. Wathiq, like his cellmates accused of the same tariff evasion, had no idea the tariff even existed. "The government hadn't announced it or tried to collect it at the border crossing," he says. "But there was no point in arguing. That was how Saddam maintained control. He had so many rules you couldn't follow them all." To get out of jail, Wathiq agreed to pay not just the tariff but the entire value of his whiskey shipment, $60,000, plus another $180,000 as a penalty, all in cash, which a friend delivered to the jail. On Wathiq's way out, he offered to fetch more cash so his cellmates could get out, but the other merchants refused to pay up. 
"A friend of mine there said I was paying way too much and the charges would never hold up in court," Wathiq recalls. "I said: 'Don't be silly. It's not about these minor violations. They're after our assets. Don't mess with them.' Four days later my friend and the other merchants were sentenced to death for being economic saboteurs. Saddam had 41 of them shot. If I'd stayed in that cell, there would have been 42." 
Now that Saddam Hussein is gone, capitalists no longer fear those sorts of official reprisals, but they worry about the remnants of the regime, and not merely ones who are kidnapping executives and shooting at "collaborators." A number of the old regime's bureaucrats are still in place. The American occupying forces have taken a few steps to encourage capitalism -- opening the borders, issuing a currency, starting a banking system -- but they haven't dismantled the state-run industries, labyrinthine ministries and other legacies of Baathism. Even in the most capitalist-friendly part of Iraq, the Kurdish region that enjoyed autonomy from Baghdad for more than a decade, the economy is still dominated by two politically powerful clans, the Talabanis and Barzanis, and legions of bureaucrats. 
"We still have a bad habit of government encroaching on business," says Barham Salih, the prime minister of one Kurdish region. "It's very hard to change the culture after decades of authoritarian rule." Simply selling off the state-owned enterprises is politically risky, because it could provoke a popular backlash and lead to new kinds of crony capitalism favoring either rich Iraqi families with ties to the old regime or large American companies with ties to the Bush administration. 
"If you were to privatize state-owned industries tomorrow," Salih says, "the only Iraqis with the money to buy them would be the former partners of Saddam Hussein. Privatization has to be done carefully so as not to sustain the power of a corrupt elite." 
The American occupiers and Iraqi leaders have endorsed the concept of diverting future oil revenues into a special trust fund that would go directly to citizens, but the Americans haven't forced the issue, and Iraqi politicians have shown little inclination to forgo control. The idea of quickly transferring sovereignty to Iraq and scheduling elections may please the United Nations and Republican campaign strategists, but it dismays scholars who have watched other new democracies degenerate into autocracies or split along ethnic lines. Given the religious and tribal divisions in Iraq, an election campaign could easily resemble the recent one in Kenya in which tribal leaders exhorted their followers to vote with the rallying cry: "It's our turn to eat."
"Iraq's civil society is so weak and decimated that there's a great danger of a new state abusing its power," says Larry Diamond, a political scientist at the Hoover Institution and co-editor of the journal Democracy. He, Zakaria and other experts say it would be better to wait at least two or three years, or ideally as long as five, before holding national elections. Such a delay is probably impractical, but it would suit at least one bourgeois family in Baghdad. 
During a rare moment off from their many enterprises, Nader and his parents sit around the conference table at their office debating when Iraq should hold national elections. 
"Maybe in a couple of years," Nader says. "We need Iraqi administrators to guarantee stability and contracts and property rights, but until we develop parties that are based on ideas instead of religion or ethnicity, we should hold off on elections."
"Five years," his father says. "That's enough time for a new generation to go through college." 
"Never," Nader's mother says, and it's hard at first to tell if she's kidding. 
"Well, someday," Nidhal says, "but I can't imagine when. People here have been through so much turmoil they're just not ready to vote."
What Iraq needs most, Wathiq says, is a respite from politics. "Focus on economics," he says. "Politics divides people because you compete for dominance. You please the Shiites, the Sunnis won't like it. You please the Kurds, the Arabs won't like it. But business unites people. If you're a Sunni and I'm a Christian, we can always make a deal. When we make money together, everybody gets a dividend. It's like a dinner with enough food for everyone."
He and Nader would like to expound further on the topic, but this talk of a deal reminds them of a potential customer waiting to talk to them about power generators. They head out to their S.U.V. "We'll talk more about this later," Nader says as they pull away, and there is a certain logic to his priorities. Talk of democracy can wait. Business comes first. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rebuild it, and they will come: Nader (left) and Wathiq Hindo are back in Baghdad and dealing with oil companies, the U.S. Army and anyone else willing to invest in Iraq. (Photograph by Stephanie Sinclair; Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (87%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); POWER FAILURES (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); ARMIES (69%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (69%); TOURISM (68%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); LEISURE TRAVEL (66%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (65%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



516 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
Young Ladies on the Verge of a Breakthrough

BYLINE:  By KATHA POLLITT; Katha Pollitt, a poet and essayist, writes the "Subject to Debate" column for The Nation.

 BODY:
IN "Mona Lisa Smile," which opened Friday, Julia Roberts arrives in the fall of 1953 to teach at a Wellesley College that seems to have more in common with a 19th-century finishing school than a 20th-century institution of higher learning. Ms. Roberts's character, Katherine Watson, is an avatar of the future: a free-spirited California art historian and protofeminist. During her brief stint at Wellesley, she defies the hidebound administration and opens her students' eyes to modern art, their own potential and the possibilities of life beyond the Mrs. degree. 
 Raised in modest circumstances and trained at U.C.L.A., Katherine fulfills her mother's dream when she lands a one-year appointment at beautiful, posh and historic Wellesley, outside Boston. It takes her about a day to discover that the school is a den of cozy snobbery and Back Bay backbiting and that, despite its academic standards, it functions in practice as a training school for upper-class wives. The president of the college is under the thumb of arch-conservative donors; Katherine's art department colleagues are musty and old-fashioned; her students, all of whom are white and most of whom look like Sylvia Plath's yearbook photo, resent her as an outsider and social inferior. She shares a wildly over-chintzed house with lonely Nancy (Marcia Gay Harden, nicelymanaging the fine line between heartiness and hysteria), who teaches elocution, homemaking and "poise" -- you know, how to get into and out of a car gracefully, how to set the table for a formal dinner party -- and how to seat the guests so as to advance one's husband's career. As an unmarried woman who wears her neediness on her sleeve, Nancy is clearly an object of some fun to her elegant and self-assured students. But they listen. 
 The movie's depiction of the college is unfortunately on the mark. Despite its official mission of providing young women with a first-rate education, Wellesley had, by the 1950's, become a strangely backward place: more traditional and less committed to female emancipation, than it had been in its early years. And Wellesley was not alone. To think about women's colleges in the 1950's is to enter a world that seems so alien, so obsessed with domesticity, as to be a bit mad. We can accept that a school nurse (Juliet Stevenson) would be fired for giving the sexually adventurous Giselle (Maggie Gyllenhaal) a diaphragm -- prescribing contraception to unmarried women was, after all, illegal in Massachusetts until 1972. The everyday details are what capture the weirdness: Wellesley traditions included a hoop race whose winner would supposedly be the first to marry, and, for the married, a baby-buggy race to predict who would be the first to have a child. Both these customs are shown in the film, and nicely catch the way 1950's domestic culture infantilized young women even as it pushed them into a staid maturity. 
In fact, the atmosphere was even stranger and more demeaning than the Mike Newell movie suggests. There's no mention, for example, of the humiliating naked "posture pictures" taken of each freshman (not just at Wellesley, and not just of women) for vaguely eugenic purposes, or of the regular "marriage lectures," or of the inscription Carolyn Heilbrun (Wellesley '47) recalls adorning one library (now demolished): "Her voice was ever soft, gentle and low, an excellent thing in woman." Not exactly a summons to intellectual achievement! And Wellesley was typical. Back in Katherine's home state, Mills College's slogan was "We are not educating women to be scholars -- but to be wives and mothers."
Such was the sad devolution of a noble history; in its earlier years, the school had been quite radical. Founded in 1875, Wellesley broke decisively with the seminary model of women's education represented by, for example, Mt. Holyoke -- in which strictly monitored students received a religiously inflected, watered-down education from mostly male professors. Wellesley was intended to be a kind of Harvard for women, with state-of-the-art science labs and a demanding curriculum. Alone among secular women's colleges, its charter mandated a female president and an all-female faculty. Katharine Lee Bates, who wrote "America the Beautiful," was a professor there, as was the economist and social reformer Emily Greene Balch, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1946. Patricia Ann Palmieri's fascinating study of Wellesley's early years, "In Adamless Eden," portrays the faculty as a closely knit, intensely feminist community of remarkable (and mostly single) women, many of whom combined middle-class gentility with progressive activism -- women's suffrage, the settlement house movement, the labor movement and even socialism. In 1912, eight years before women won the right to vote, the mathematician Ellen Hayes was the Socialist Party candidate for Massachusetts Secretary of State. Hayes and the irrepressible English professor Vida Scudder were excoriated by the Boston press for agitating on behalf of striking Lawrence mill workers.
For these academic pioneers, education might grace a married woman -- indeed, much effort was expended disproving influential medical theories suggesting that educating women caused infertility and nervous breakdowns. But getting married was hardly the point of attending the college. Wellesley graduates were supposed to take their education out into the world as scholars, teachers, reformers. Like the graduates of the other Seven Sisters colleges, they were much less likely than other women to marry or to have many children. "Only our failures marry," M. Carey Thomas, the second president of Bryn Mawr who held the post from 1894 to 1922, reportedly said. The remark caused such a furor she claimed she was misquoted and had really said, "Our failures only marry."
But by the 1920's, the early professors were going; for years, too, the feminism they embodied had been assaulted by a ferocious backlash. Elite white women rejecting marriage and large families spawned charges of "race suicide" from no less a personage than Theodore Roosevelt. Single women, whom the Victorians had viewed as sexless and rather admirable, had been redefined as sexually morbid if not outright lesbians. Part of Wellesley's response to this changed climate was to hire male professors -- married male professors -- even though most first-rate male instructors scorned posts at female institutions, and even though the loss to women of these rare academic posts was not balanced by increased opportunities at all-male or coed institutions. Paradoxically, the college that had encouraged so many women to imagine themselves as true scholars and intellectuals ended up discriminating against well-qualified female academics to hire men who were probably inferior.
A little of Wellesley's original mission can be glimpsed in "Mona Lisa Smile." It's there, for example, in the ritual that opens the academic year. The classes, wearing their distinctively colored beanies, crowd outside the chapel doors as the student body president calls out "I am Everywoman!" to which the college president replies solemnly, "All who enter here for knowledge and hard work are welcome." The part of Wellesley's president is played by Marian Seldes; her distinguished hawklike profile and elegantly tailored suits evoke the female daring of an earlier generation. She's like an aging Katharine Hepburn wearily overseeing a flock of perky Doris Days.
Katherine Watson doesn't keep her job for long: the college can't deal with a professor who urges her students to think and feel and question for themselves, whether about the Mona Lisa (why is she smiling, one student wonders, because she's happy, or because people expect it?) or the cookie-cutter lives handed to them with the course catalog. She leaves behind a group of students whose lives she has transformed. The manipulative queen bee Betty (Kirsten Dunst) frees herself from her awful family and becomes a human being; shy Connie (Ginnifer Goodwin) gets the confidence to go after the man she wants; studious Joan (Julia Stiles) embraces domesticity, but as a conscious choice. We in the audience know, of course, that Katherine's enemies will get their historical comeuppance: In "Rebels in White Gloves," Miriam Horn describes the class of 1969 -- Hillary Rodham's class -- as pivotal. The women's movement, the sexual revolution and the anti-war movement came together to give female students a new sense of power and freedom. Who needs "poise" whenyou can go to medical school or join a commune?
It is this generation that is responsible for the Wellesley of today, a school that's become famous for, among other things, turning out legions of female business leaders. If Katherine's students' daughters and granddaughters chose Wellesley, they would find it a very different place, one that Katharine Lee Bates and her colleagues would recognize and endorse. The hoop race would still be there -- unlike the baby buggy race, it survives to this day -- but the winner gets to be whatever she wants.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In "Mona Lisa Smile," Julia Roberts portrays a free-spirited professor teaching art history in 1953 at the very traditional Wellesley College, where marrying well is her students' main goal. (Photo by Bob Marshak/Columbia Pictures)(pg. 15); An introductory painting course at Wellesley during the 1953-54 school year. (Photo Courtesy of Wellesley College)(pg. 27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); HISTORY (77%); ART HISTORY (76%); FILM (76%); WOMEN (74%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); CONSERVATISM (71%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (62%); CONTRACEPTION (60%); NURSES & NURSING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (57%)

PERSON: JULIA ROBERTS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



517 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: On the Web, an Amateur Audience Creates Anti-Bush Ads 

BYLINE:  By PHOEBE EATON

 BODY:
WHEN the Web-based political group MoveOn.org announced a contest in October for homemade commercials challenging the Bush administration (the winner to be shown on television during the week of the State of the Union address) grass-roots America proved a willing and eager advertising agency. 
 Thirty-second spots poured in by the hundreds in e-mail attachments to MoveOn.org, which has already shown that the Internet can be a battering ram for political activism by organizing protests against the invasion of Iraq. Last week, the group posted 1,017 of the amateur commercials on a Web site (www.bushin30seconds.org), asking viewers to pick their favorites. 
 In the first hour of polling on Wednesday, more than 5,700 votes were logged. So many people visited the site that MoveOn, experiencing bandwidth problems, limited the curious to 20 ads a day. 
Next month the top vote-getters will be shown to a panel of left-leaning celebrity judges including Moby, Michael Moore, Janeane Garofalo, Margaret Cho and Gus Van Sant, with one or more winning entries to be broadcast as paid advertisements in Washington, D.C., in potential swing states or perhaps nationally. 
What the cascade of entries demonstrates is that the home-movie revolution made possible by inexpensive digital camcorders and off-the-shelf software has elevated the United States from merely being a nation of wedding videographers.
Even so, the production values of many spots are a bit shaky, and the content often overheated. "Bush Cheney Auto World," a typical entry, from Tracy Spaight, a high-school history teacher in Houston, posits an oily salesman whose motto is: "Where we always say what you want to hear." But a number of the ads are unexpectedly professional-looking, at least on a par with the burnished style and hard-hitting messages of political ads made by Madison Avenue pros or K Street consultants in untucked shirttails. 
The amateur ad makers of the left are charged up about the country's dependence on fossil fuels, the plight of education and the $87.5 billion spending package for Iraq. They tabulate Mr. Bush's perceived deceptions. He is "Bushoccio," an inflatable Hot Air President Doll whose box bears the product warning: "Not designed for poor people. Not actually elected." 
Contributors to the contest include recent graduates of the Kennedy School of Government, a teacher from Detroit, stand-up comics, amateur impressionists, a D.J. and more than a few self-styled rappers. 
Sets and props have a quaintly home-grown provenance. Pies and cakes are used to illustrate budget and tax cuts. A pot on the verge of boiling over is Iraq. Water gurgling down a drain is "American Credibility." A toilet flushes away "Our Children's Future," played in another ad by a fragile U.S. Grade A egg. 
Movies and TV shows are the ad makers' grist. "I'm concerned, George, I'm concerned about how you've dealt with the economy," drones a computer in a spot titled "2004: A Political Odyssey."
Christopher Fink, an independent filmmaker in California, used his ranch-style house in the San Fernando Valley as a set and recruited his sister as cinematographer after she made an accomplished video of his wife's baby shower.
In the spot titled "If Parents Acted Like Bush," Mr. Fink plays the president as a cad who beds down with special interests. His car pulls away from the house in the morning, leaving his teenage daughter (Mr. Fink's niece) to find her own way to school. He buys a motorcycle and tells the Terminator-face biker that his daughter will pay for it. 
Then she walks in on him in his bedroom, snuggling with a blonde who isn't her mother. "It's O.K.," he cries, "she's rich!" 
And how much did the spot cost? "Including catering? That was most of the budget -- the doughnuts," Mr. Fink said. "It couldn't have cost me more than 50 bucks."
Donnie Deutsch, a prominent New York advertising executive who worked on the campaign of Bill Clinton in 1992, looked at a sample of the MoveOn ads last week and was impressed. "I thought some of it was very fresh and interesting -- obviously amateurish in some of its creative license -- but certainly very creative in its thinking," he said. 
However, Mike Murphy, a Republican strategist who worked on Arnold Schwarzenegger's campaign for governor of California, was more dismissive. "I'd say a lot of this looks like MoveOn self-promotion," he said in a message sent, appropriately enough, by e-mail over his BlackBerry. "Having an insult-the-president home-movie contest is not smart politics."
Through its Voter Fund, which solicits donations online, in part from Web surfers who must register to view the anti-Bush ads, MoveOn aims to raise about $15 million for advertising in battleground states to unseat Mr. Bush, said Eli Pariser, who oversees the group's fund-raising. 
In addition to the amateur ads, MoveOn has a professional agency on retainer. But Mr. Pariser said he was so pleased with the ads that have rolled in that MoveOn may approach its 1.7 million members in this country and say, "Here are 10 great ads, and we want to run all of them."
It would not be the first time the group has proven the power of the Internet for political activism. Founded five years ago to oppose the impeachment of President Bill Clinton, MoveOn.org became a catalyst for demonstrations earlier this year, and subsequently raised more than $7 million from 133,000 donors to oppose Mr. Bush's policies. Last month two billionaire philanthropists, George Soros and Peter B. Lewis, announced they would match contributions to the group up to $5 million between them. 
The content of the MoveOn ads is circumscribed by the campaign finance reforms of the McCain-Feingold Law, upheld earlier this month by the Supreme Court. While prohibiting soft-money donations to political parties, the law allows donations to flow to independent groups like MoveOn as long they run only informational ads and do not specifically endorse a candidate. 
Thus MoveOn's call for submissions was careful to solicit ads that would help voters "understand the truth about George Bush." No ads supporting the president's policies were sent in, contest organizers noted. They also disqualified about 100 submissions, including some for reasons of taste. A spot showing a frog dropped into boiling water, a metaphor for "how the administration is turning up the heat in this country," according to its director, was deemed unsuitable for television.
Still, plenty of the ads that made the cut exhibit the inflamed passions of street rallies. The scenarios are sometimes closer to angry guerrilla theater than witty "Saturday Night Live" spoofs. A man fills his gas tank, then shoots the cashier instead of paying. "If you wouldn't tolerate this from a normal citizen," the screen reads, "why would you from your president?"
"Follow the Leader" compares Mr. Bush to a schoolyard bully who shoots a schoolmate in the back. "Connect the Dots" maintains that Mr. Bush "has established links to known terrorist organizations." Still another commercial claims he has "ties to the Bin Laden family."
Larry McCarthy, a Republican strategist who in 1988 helped produce a notorious television ad using a convicted murderer, Willie Horton, to suggest that the Democratic nominee, Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, was soft on crime, has not seen the MoveOn ads, but he admired the idea. 
"It's certainly proof of the march of technology, letting everybody and anybody be an ad maker," he said.
"As a fund-raiser gimmick, I think it's pretty good," he continued. "I wouldn't be surprised if somebody on the Republican side decided that there's just as much or more fodder on Howard Dean, so why don't you let those little Republicans with camcorders have a go at it too?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: 'BUSH CHENEY AUTO WORLD' by Tracy Spaight.; 'BUSH KNEW' by Chad Redmon.; 'AMERIGONE' by Peter Burford.; REVIEWERS -- Eli Pariser, left, of MoveOn and Moby go over submissions. (Photo by Christopher Smith for The New York Times); 'AL KEYDA' by Joel Viertl.; 'WHAT ARE WE TEACHING OUR CHILDREN' by Fred Surr.; 'CHILD'S PAY' by Charlie Fisher. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); CELEBRITIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); BANDWIDTH (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (72%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); CHILDREN (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); BUDGETS (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (63%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (63%) United States Politics and Government; Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: Moveon.org

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Phoebe Eaton

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



518 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1731 words

HEADLINE: Time to Render Unto Doormen 

BYLINE:  By WARREN ST. JOHN

 BODY:
BEFORE parceling out your holiday tips, you might consider the case of Dr. Michael Sachs.
 Last year, Dr. Sachs, a Manhattan plastic surgeon with offices on Central Park South, was feeling particularly grateful towards both his nanny and his masseuse. Both had shown years of loyal service and he wanted to give them holiday tips with an impact. The nanny, he said, had long intimated that she was unhappy with her nose, while his masseuse, who had recently turned 50, felt her age was getting the better of her looks. So instead of the usual Christmas gratuities of $500 and $200, respectively, Dr. Sachs surprised them: the nanny got a nose job, the masseuse a face lift and eye tuck, all on the house. 
 "I've always felt Christmas is a very special time," Dr. Sachs said. "And it never hurts to do more." 
December is tipping season, that period when in countless awkward exchanges, people offer their annual gratuities to those they've come helplessly to rely on, and in so doing, silently declare their allegiance to either Santa or Scrooge. Emotions, to say nothing of souls, hang in the balance, and loyalties can be established or broken with the passing of an envelope. While nose jobs have not yet replaced cash as the preferred currency of appreciation, the example of Dr. Sachs drives home the basic conundrum of holiday tipping, one that for many turns the simple act of holiday giving into a tense and socially perilous exercise: how do you measure up as a tipper when you suspect others are more generous?
"It's a big ball of anxiety," said Linda Wells, the editor of Allure magazine, who said she doles out holiday tips to between 30 and 35 fellow New Yorkers each year. "If you ask, 'What did you give the doorman?' they'll never tell you. It's the secret you can't ask."
Tipping, economists say, is particularly fraught because it is as much a social act as an economic one. Eric A. Greenleaf, an associate professor of marketing at the Stern School of Business at New York University, who studies consumer behavior, said tipping is different from other financial transactions. "Tipping not only sends a message to the person you're tipping," he said. "For many people it's sending a message to themselves about themselves and what they've achieved. Tipping is one of those things that affects a person's self-image."
Generally speaking, the more money one has, the more of those messages one must send during the holidays. Terry Allen Kramer, the socialite, said she hands out Christmas tips to between 50 and 60 people each year, including domestic staff in Palm Beach, Southampton and Manhattan. She typically gives doormen between $200 and $500, she said, adding, "No matter when you think you've finished going through the list, you find you've forgotten someone -- the butcher or something."
But the less wealthy are hardly exempt. Mail carriers, newspaper delivery men, sanitation workers, dog walkers and hair stylists often expect holiday tips, and some send or leave helpful holiday cards to make the point. The reminders can have the effect of making Christmas Day seem like a kind of appreciation deadline, with the threat that blowing it could affect relationships for the year to come.
Brennan Rees, 32, who works in television and shares an apartment in Gramercy Park, teams up with his roommate to give $240 to his building's staff of eight. He has no idea if that's the right amount.
"I wouldsay that I give what I'm comfortable with," he said. "But I've never talked tips with them so I'm flying blind a little bit."
Tipping presents a classic bidder's dilemma. Bid too low, and your tip can seem piddling in comparison with those of your peers. Bid too high and you are a sucker. The ideal middle ground differs from neighbor to neighbor, and even within couples. Jane Stanton Hitchcock, a socialite and author who lives in Washington and New York, said she and her husband argued over the proper holiday tip for their Washington newspaper delivery man. Ms. Hitchcock appreciated that the delivery man carried the paper to the front door, rather than heaving it into the bushes, so she gave him $75. "My husband thought it was insane," she said. "He said, 'He's supposed to do that.' "
Michael Lynn, an associate professor of consumer behavior at Cornell University's School of Hotel Administration, who studies tipping, said holiday tipping is especially complicated because there are no standard rates. In restaurants, he said, the expectations are well known: a tip of 15 to 20 percent is normal; anything less suggests the service wasn't up to snuff, and anything more, that the tipper was especially pleased. But outside restaurants, there are too many variables for any simple prescription of how much to hand out. 
Different city apartment buildings, for example, offer different levels of service. Some doormen or superintendents may be more helpful than others. A family with children that packs an entire playroom into their S.U.V. on Friday nights in the summer -- and unpacks it on Sunday night -- demands more attention than a single tenant who slips in and out with a duffle bag. 
An environment with no standard prescription for behavior, Mr. Lynn said, can induce all sorts of nervous thoughts.
"First and foremost, tipping is about social approval," he said. "And if I'm trying to win the approval of the doorman, I'm only going to do that if I give him an average or better than average tip. So of course there's anxiety, because I've got to give the average tip, but I don't know what the average tip is."
Either out of a sense of decorum or a clever bit of strategizing, tippees are often reluctant to provide much guidance. Ask a Manhattan doorman how much you should tip, and he'll often demur. "There's no set figure," said Angel Sanchez, a doorman at a large rental building downtown. "It all depends on what kind of person is giving the tip."
Pressed for a range, one Upper East Side doorman, who asked not to be identified for fear of upsetting his employer, was similarly vague. For years, he said, he received a Christmas tip from an older tenant in the form of a check -- for $3. Another tenant regularly awards him between $700 and $800 in December -- cash money.
"No matter what, they receive the same service," the doorman insisted. "If I get or I don't get, I have the same feelings for that person. I don't know about the finances of the tenants. That's not my business. My business is to do my job."
Suffice it to say that many New Yorkers don't buy this line. Convinced that their holiday tip can be the ticket to 12 months of preferred service, they engage in a kind of pre-emptive gambit. One financier, who lives on the Upper East Side, said he calculates holiday tips based on "who can be helpful or hurtful."
Under this scheme, the newspaper delivery man has little leverage because his options for retaliation are few -- too bad for him. A doorman, garage attendant or the person who takes squash court reservations at his club -- all ofwhom have the opportunity to favor him over someone else -- come in for heaping largess.
"Let's say the super can come to me or come to you," he said. "If the expected tip is $300 and I gave him $500 and blow him away, he's coming to me first."
The financier, who spoke on condition of anonymity so as not to give away his competitive strategies to other building residents, said that he has used elevator conversations to throw off rivals. "You say, 'Oh, I give $100,' so everyone underbids," he said. "Then you give $500." 
Dampening the urge of many to give generous tips is the knowledge that once a certain level of tipping is established, it must be maintained for years to come. Tips are what economists call "sticky"; that is, once they reach a certain level, they are unlikely to go down. 
"The norm is that you're going to tip at least as much as you did the previous year," said Mr. Greenleaf, the N.Y.U economist. "A decrease is seen as a very, very negative sign."
Katherine Rothman, who owns a public relations firm in New York and distributes about $2,000 in tips to 30 people including her dog walker, said she tries to find a compromise between escalation and hurt feelings. "It would be horrible to give less than you gave the year before," she said. On the other hand, she added, "You never want to set the bar so high."
A few Manhattan buildings, most of them exclusive co-ops, have endeavored to short-circuit the social anxiety of tipping their staffs by organizing holiday tipping pools, which are then distributed to the staff according to seniority. At 10 Gracie Square, a white-glove building on the Upper East Side, the average donation to the fund is around $5,000.
Dr. Frank Flynn, an economist who studies "favor exchange" at Columbia University Business School, is currently conducting a study of holiday tipping habits in Manhattan apartment buildings. One possible explanation for tipping pools in wealthy buildings, he said, is that people who regularly must manage social anxieties -- socialites, for example -- would be quick to find a solution for something as disruptive as holiday tipping. 
Dr. Flynn said he wasn't asking people what they normally tip during the holidays "because I'd probably disbelieve what they told me."
"Everybody feels threatened by a question like that because they don't want to come across as someone who's less generous than someone else," he said. Likewise, the accounts of doormen would be unreliable, he added, because they might be tempted to exaggerate in an effort to influence other tippers, much as cafe workers might "salt" a tip jar with a couple of fivers to get things rolling.
"When people salt tip jars they put dollar bills in there, not coins," Dr. Flynn said.
Perhaps the most frustrating aspect of holiday tipping is not knowing exactly how one's tip went over, even months later, which can feel like taking a test and never getting the results back. There are, of course, exceptions. Teresa Wiatrowska, Dr. Sachs's masseuse, who received the face lift last Christmas, was effusive in her praise for the doctor and said she wouldn't hesitate to favor him over other high-profile clients, most of whom give her a standard cash tip of a couple of hundred dollars. 
"I don't want them to feel bad so I don't give them the details," she said. "But Dr. Sachs will be the priority. Everybody is nice, but he is awesome."

GRAPHIC: Photo: BETTER THAN CASH -- Last year, Dr. Michael Sachs, center, gave his masseuse, Teresa Wiatrowska, left, and his nanny, Arline Capinpin, cosmetic surgery instead of tips. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. 12) Drawing (Drawing by Marc Rosenthal)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRATUITIES & TIPS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Tips and Tipping; Christmas

PERSON: Warren St John

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



519 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: URBAN TACTICS; 
Hard Lives, Hard Choices

BYLINE:  By MARY PLESHETTE WILLIS; Mary Pleshette Willis is the author of the novel "Papa's Cord."

 BODY:
I SPY him a block away, a homeless man begging so shyly that I manage to slip by him without being noticed. Or so I think. A little further on, I drop a dollar bill into the velvet-lined flute case of a street musician, clearly better off than the beggar, who is playing a John Coltrane rendition of "My Favorite Things" when I feel a gentle tap on my shoulder.
 "Why'd you give him a dollar and nothing to me?" the homeless man asks plaintively. 
"Because you didn't ask," I reply. Hearing the edge in my voice, I quickly soften. "Tell me what you need." 
 "Enough to get to this address downtown?" He shows me a card with the name and address of the Bellevue Men's Shelter at 30th Street and First Avenue scribbled in a spidery hand.
 He opens his palm and together we count 48 cents -- a quarter, two dimes and three pennies stuck to his skin. "I've been walking all the way from 110th Street," he says. "And I guess I'm pretty tired."
 We are on the corner of 66th Street and Broadway. He has another two and a half miles to go.
 I take off my backpack, unzip the main pouch, dig through keys, notebooks, a pocket calendar, eyeglass case, Altoids, lipstick and yoga clothes -- this is precisely why I didn't want to stop in the first place -- until I find my wallet. In my billfold are three singles, a five and some change, not to mention the $50 in cash I keep hidden in my checkbook. Together, the homeless man and I count out $1.60, which, added to his 48 cents, is enough for a single subway ride and transfer.
 With a heartfelt thank-you, he disappeared into the subway as I continued on my way, a sickening guilt washing over me that I hadn't given him at least enough for a hot dog and soda.
 I don't know why this particular homeless man got to me when I am assaulted daily by beggars, street performers, volunteers for the homeless ("just one penny ... anything will make a difference"); elderly women with young children, young children with single mothers, drunks, con artists and the mentally ill. 
 This isn't surprising. Despite efforts by both Mayor Giuliani and Mayor Bloomberg to get the homeless off the streets, their ranks are growing at an alarming rate; over the past five years, the number of homeless families has increased by 108 percent, according to the Coalition for the Homeless, and the number of homeless single adults is at the highest point since 1991. Any New Yorker who takes the subway or walks the streets knows that a day rarely goes by when one doesn't have to "decide" whom to give to and whom to avoid.
 The calculations involved in making the decision are subtle and complex, a mix of quick, almost unconscious emotional, moral and economic decisions that determine when and whether to stop the frantic rush and dig into one's pocket. 
 Even those steeped in the issue must make these instant calculations. "I have to make the same heart-wrenching decisions as everyone else about whom to give to," said Mary Brosnahan Sullivan, the coalition's executive director. "On the street, we all have to play God."
 Some people give indiscriminately.
 "I give to anyone who asks," said Henry Green, a portly, middle-aged bus driver who was taking a break outside the subway station at 72nd Street and Broadway. "I figure if they ask, they need it." 
 Mr. Green may be an exception. According to random interviews around the city, every panhandler and street musician I asked said women give more than men, although both sexes tend to be more generous toward a beggar who is a neighborhood fixture.
 Dr. Gregory Mitton, a radiologist who recently moved to New York from British Columbia, gives regularly to a homeless man named Gregory, with whom, he points out, he shares a first name. "Once he wanted to talk to me about the periodic table of chemistry because he knows I'm a physician," Dr. Mitton said. "And he always asks me about my kids."
 My friend Kathy brightens when she talks about her local homeless man, Charlie, who is frequently stationed in front of the Pioneer Market on Columbus Avenue and 76th Street. "Sometimes weeks go by and I don't see him," she said. "But whenever I do, I give him a dollar." 
 Being a familiar figure, however, can cut both ways. Of the same beggar, an 84-year-old World War II veteran said, "After a while, I realized he was just lazy and wasn't looking for work, so I stopped giving." Implicit in his remark was the judgment that Charlie didn't deserve to be helped because he wasn't doing anything to get off the dole.
 WOMEN may give more than men, but both men and women seem to care equally about how the money they give is being spent.
 Dolores, a 68-year-old Harlem woman who keeps house for my friend Kathy, once followed a man to whom she had given $5 for food, and demanded that he return the money when she caught him buying drugs. 
 Ruth Birnkrant, a 90-year-old Upper East Sider who has lived in New York for more than 60 years, remembered the time her husband approached a homeless man and offered to buy him a hot meal on a bitter cold day. Not only did her husband recommend the restaurant, he told the man what to order -- chicken soup or, if he didn't like soup, the meatloaf. The beggar refused. "If you want to give me money, I'll be happy to take it," he said. "But don't tell me how to spend it."
 What some New Yorkers see as pluck, others consider attitude, but almost everyone agrees that the panhandler who can make you laugh is the one you're most likely to respond to.
 Steven Murphy, president of Rodale Publishing, remembers an incident that occurred when he was working for Simon & Schuster and had just taken two clients from Minneapolis out to lunch. 
 "We were standing on the corner of 14th Street and Eighth Avenue," he recalled. "And I saw this homeless guy making a beeline for us. I tried to jockey myself and the two Midwesterners into a cab, but the guy stepped in front of me and looked me up and down. But instead of asking for money, he said, "Excuse me, sir, but could you spare some Grey Poupon?" If it had been me, I would have given the fellow $5. 
 Like everybody else, I have my own hierarchy of personal favorites: I always give to street performers, be they classical violinists, West Indian kettle drummers or Peruvian flutists (although I don't give to anyone who sings off key); next come women, because a woman who has no friends or family has to be hurting; then come the elderly, particularly those with disabilities. 
 I'm wary of grandmothers begging with small children because they remind me of the Gypsies I used to see in Barcelona, and I rarely give to people collecting for the homeless. I never give to people whose stories sound too canned or familiar, unless their spiel is especially disarming. 
 But no matter whom I give to or whom I pass by, I am outraged that there are still so many homeless in the city that never sleeps, especially if, like the man who tapped me on the shoulder, you have to walk five miles just to get a bed for the night.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Women are said to give more than men, although both sexes tend to be more generous toward a beggar who is a neighborhood fixture. (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (90%); STREET ART (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (73%); MUSIC (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); CHILDREN (64%); SINGLE PARENTS (63%); FAMILY (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%) Homeless Persons

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (50%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Mary Pleshette Willis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



520 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Executive Life; 
Learning to Wow 'Em With Stage Presence

BYLINE:  By MELINDA LIGOS

DATELINE: Bridgewater, N.J. 

 BODY:
JENNIFER NEWSOM'S face is bright red.
 Ms. Newsom, a vice president at Chubb & Son, part of the Chubb Group of Insurance Companies, is ranting to a group of colleagues about her husband, Jack. "I can't believe that Jack won't wipe the toast crumbs off the toaster!" she yells, fists clenched. With a stomp of her foot, she rattles off a list of her husband's minor imperfections, appearing to become more enraged by the moment. 
 But, suddenly, her face softens and her voice becomes tender. "Jack really loves our dachshund, Henry," she says, holding her hands to her heart. "He is a very sweet man."
 Then she takes a bow, and her colleagues are on their feet, applauding wildly. Ms. Newsom has just finished her first exercise in a two-day workshop intended to give her more presence as a leader.
 The workshop, held last month for eight Chubb vice presidents, was led by the Ariel Group, a company founded by two performers who use theatrical techniques to help business leaders improve communication skills. During the sessions -- in a hotel ballroom about 45 miles west of New York City -- the executives were required to scream, gesticulate wildly, jog in place, pretend to ice skate and tell tear-inducing stories about lost pets and bitter divorces. All that effort is meant to help the attendees become more effective managers and leaders. 
 Bringing actors into management training classes may still be unusual, but the idea could soon gain favor in business, said Deborah Brown-Volkman, a career coach based in Long Beach, N.Y. As the economy picks up, she said, more companies may want to train their managers in how to rev up their teams.
 "We're emerging from a time where workers are fatigued, and they don't necessarily believe in their companies anymore," she said. "Leaders are going to have to work to be more galvanizing."
 During the first exercise in which Ms. Newsom participated, she was instructed to talk about her husband while a colleague whispered every 30 seconds into her ear, telling her a new emotion to project. The exercise was intended to teach an executive to think on the run, and to adopt different tones of voice and emotions, said Kathy Lubar, an actress and a founder of Ariel.
 Ms. Lubar and Belle Halpern, a cabaret singer who is the other founder, have run similar seminars for executives from companies including Deloitte & Touche, Exxon Mobil and General Electric.
 The Chubb executives were all identified by their bosses as having high potential, but as needing certain advanced leadership qualities, said Bettina Kelly, worldwide manager of Chubb's training department. Some are quiet leaders, she said, who "need to step out of their shells a bit."
 In the insurance industry in particular, said Sharon Emek, director of the New York City office of the CBS Coverage Group, "most managers are not animated enough." 
 "Most leaders in our industry could use a little more passion," she added, "as long as it's real, instead of some sort of charade." Ms. Emek is also a board member of the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers Association in New York.
 Ms. Lubar tells her students that by using acting techniques to be more expressive and spontaneous, they will be able to connect more effectively with others. That was the goal of Ms. Newsom, 33, who said she sometimes had trouble coming across as serious in the workplace. Recently, she had to discuss the poor performance of a subordinate and did not feel that she was able to convey to that employee the seriousness of the matter. "I'm naturally upbeat and positive, which doesn't always play well when you're in a management situation," she said.
 For Kirk Voisin, a soft-spoken vice president of Chubb who moved to the United States from Trinidad 10 years ago, the workshop was a chance to become more comfortable at social events for work. In October, Mr. Voisin recalled, he was entertaining clients on a boat in Savannah, Ga., and became so weary of small talk that he retreated onto the deck. He said he was also concerned about the tone of his voice. "When I'm speaking in front of a large room of people, my voice tends to fade," he said. 
 Luckily for Mr. Voisin, the first afternoon of the workshop focused on voice projection. He and his colleagues were required to belt out lines spoken by Ariel in "The Tempest," using different emotions for each line. "All hail, great master! Grave sir, hail!" the executives shouted, as Ms. Halpern urged them to use the most commanding voices they could muster.
 THEN she instructed them to recite another line, using exaggerated hand gestures and elevated vocal tones. "Be't to fly, to swim, to dive into the fire, to ride on the curl'd clouds," they recited. Doug Vahey, a Chubb manager based in Chicago, became so involved in the activity that he nearly fell over while pretending to dive into a fire. 
 Next, the managers were asked to share a personal story about one of their colleagues in the room. 
 When Mr. Voisin rose to tell his story, Ms. Halpern made him repeat it, this time standing on a chair.
 On Day 2, participants were required to act out longer stories. Judith Heim, a senior litigation counsel for Chubb, told of going with her father when she was a small child to put her dog, Rusty, to sleep. The story brought tears to the eyes of some audience members.
 The final activity of the day required participants to incorporate storytelling into everyday work situations. With the help of a partner, Ms. Newsom practiced having a difficult conversation with a colleague. She used new breathing techniques to make her voice resonate more. 
 Mr. Voisin was the first of his peers to try his new skills back in the real world. The evening the workshop ended, he took three clients to Jean Georges, the Manhattan restaurant. "I was more emotional and projected my voice much more," said Mr. Voisin, clearly proud of his efforts. He said that he felt comfortable all evening, and that he had been able to sustain his energy through dessert. Was it the workshop that helped? "Certainly," he said. "That, and a couple of glasses of wine."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Drama exercises were part of a workshop for Chubb executives including Carol Kuluva, top, and Valerie Lafontaine and Kirk Voisin. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGER TRAINING (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (87%); INSURANCE (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); DOGS (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (66%) Executives and Management

COMPANY: CHUBB CORP (94%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (61%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Ariel Group

TICKER: CB (NYSE) (94%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); XOM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (94%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (61%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (61%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%)

PERSON: Melinda Ligos; Kathy Lubar; Belle Halpern

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



521 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: MONEY & MEDICINE; 
Making Malpractice Harder to Prove

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE ANDREWS; Michelle Andrews is a freelance writer in Manhattan specializing in health care. Her column on its economics appears on the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: moneymeds@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
DOCTORS' groups, insurers and President Bush have vowed to continue their fight in 2004 to pass legislation that caps jury awards in medical malpractice suits. But there is another movement inching forward, and it, too, could have far-reaching consequences for injured patients.
 Slowly and quietly, the rules regarding expert witness testimony in medical malpractice cases have been changing: a handful of states have passed legislation in the last two years that generally requires physician experts to work in the same field as a defendant doctor, while professional doctors' groups are setting up committees to review the testimony of their members. 
 A medical expert is indispensable to a medical malpractice case. To show negligence, the plaintiff must demonstrate that the "standard of care" has been breached by the doctor in question. And who knows more about that standard than another doctor? Without a medical expert, there is no case. 
 Rick Del Cueto found this out the hard way. In 1995, he said, his 3-year-old daughter, Cristine, suffered a stroke when the surgeon who was operating to remove a tumor near her optic nerve cut a major artery to her brain and then, unaware of his error, cauterized and packed the area to stop the bleeding. After the operation, Cristine could not speak or walk, and lost all movement on her right side. The doctors assured them that she would get better in a few months, Mr. Del Cueto, 45, an accountant, said. But she didn't, and he and his wife, Lily, 44, who had traveled from their home in Miami to Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan for the operation, decided to sue. (The Del Cuetos say that Cristine, now 11, still suffers from cognitive and physical disabilities: she drags her right foot when she walks and cannot move her right hand.)
 The case against the surgeon took seven years to prepare. Early on, lawyers for the Del Cueto family brought in as an expert witness Dr. Robert W. Rand, a neurosurgeon who was then chairman of the pediatric neuro-oncology department at John Wayne Cancer Institute in Santa Monica, Calif. But less than a month before the trial was scheduled to begin in April, Dr. Rand pulled out of the case. His letter to the family's lawyer, Gary Alan Friedman, said: "I have been informed by the senior neurosurgical society to discontinue expert testimony for plaintiffs or risk membership. Therefore I am withdrawing as your expert." 
 The Del Cuetos were stunned. "You wind yourself up for this; you get anxiety attacks," Mr. Del Cueto said. "And then to hear that it's called off because some sanctioning body doesn't want him to testify, it was incredibly frustrating." Rather than start over, the family settled out of court for an undisclosed sum, according to Mr. Del Cueto. Dr. Rand did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
 Dr. Edgar Housepian, the surgeon named in the suit, denied any wrongdoing. "It's unfortunate the child was hurt," he said. "I didn't consider it malpractice, but on the advice of my attorney I felt it was best to settle the case, and we did."
 Doctors have long complained that the courts do not do enough to weed out so-called hired guns, physicians who make a living testifying as expert witnesses. Many doctors who take only occasional cases are tarred with the same brush. In recent years, with "truth in testimony" as their rallying cry, many doctors have become activists for restrictions and closer scrutiny regarding expert witness testimony. 
 But some people question their motives. "Doctors are so desperate to get relief from malpractice costs that they're willing to chip away at the opportunity to present an expert public opinion," said Arthur L. Caplan, director of the Center for Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania. "They know this is probably bad public policy. But they want to get away from the high costs."
 From a patient's perspective, there is a bigger problem: Though expert witnesses testify on both sides of a case, it is often the doctors who testify against other doctors on behalf of injured patients who find themselves under scrutiny. That can make it hard for injured patients to find expert witnesses. "It's a way to put colleagues on notice that 'if you play ball with the other guys we're coming after you,"' Mr. Caplan said. 
 The expert witness program of the Florida Medical Association reviews expert testimony upon request by a member. Out of a dozen requests for review over the last 18 months, 11 were for plaintiff's testimony, according to Dr. Dennis S. Agliano, president-elect of the association. He says other states are considering similar programs. 
 The American Association of Neurological Surgeons says that it does not prohibit its members from acting as experts but that it has a longstanding professional conduct program in which members review expert testimony of other members. Of about 40 cases reviewed since 1983, all but one were plaintiff's cases, according to Russell Pelton, legal counsel for the association.Mr. Pelton said that a number of other professional societies were considering adopting a similar program. There are also ad hoc programs like the Coalition and Center for Ethical Medical Testimony, whose Web site, www.ccemt.org, has an expert witness "hot list" where members, which include doctors and lawyers, share names of expert witnesses and examples of what they consider unethical testimony. At this time, all the examples are of plaintiff's testimony, said Dr. Louise B. Andrew, an emergency-room physician and the group's co-founder.
 States are also tightening qualifications for expert witnesses. A handful of states, including Florida, Louisiana and Nevada, approved bills in the last two years requiring a physician expert to generally have the same specialty as the doctor against whom he or she is testifying, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.
Many doctors support these restrictions. But Randall R. Bovbjerg, a principal research associate who tracks medical malpractice trends at the Urban Institute, a policy research group, noted that doctors would oppose any regulation that restricted their ability to treat patients outside their specialty. Why the difference when it comes to expert testimony? "It serves their interests in the courtroom," he said.
 AS the Del Cuetos found, even the threat of peer sanction can cause an expert to back out of a case. Catherine T. Struve, an assistant law professor at the University of Pennsylvania, wrote a report, published in October, that explored ways to improve expertise in medical malpractice litigation. She questioned whether peer review of medical testimony was necessary. "A good defense lawyer could get at those points on cross-examination," she said. 
 Doctors say they need to police expert testimony partly because juries cannot evaluate complex medical information and may be easily won over by a smooth-talking lawyer. But research has shown those to be misperceptions, Ms. Struve said. Simple things could be done to improve jurors' performance, she said, like allowing them to take notes, or allowing lawyers to give summaries of what the jury has just heard or is about to hear. "If you compare the way you'd teach anything to the way juries are 'taught,' it's amazing juries do as well as they do," she said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David G. Klein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (93%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (91%); TESTIMONY (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); DAMAGES (90%); EXPERT WITNESSES (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); WITNESSES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); NEUROSCIENCE (89%); CANCER (79%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (79%); INSURANCE (78%); NEGLIGENCE (78%); VERDICTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ONCOLOGY (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); STROKES (72%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (72%); CANCER HOSPITALS (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (67%) Medicine and Health; Malpractice ; Insurance; Suits and Litigation; Medicine and Health

PERSON: Michelle Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



522 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1779 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Now You Can Leave the EBay Selling to Them

BYLINE:  By KAREN ALEXANDER

 BODY:
WHEN Marc Strohlein bought a mountain bicycle a few years ago, he put his old racing bike in the garage and forgot about it. It languished there until recently, when he noticed a highway billboard in the heart of Silicon Valley offering a tempting proposition: "You drop it off. We sell it on eBay."
 So, on the day before Thanksgiving, Mr. Strohlein, 49, a market research analyst from El Granada, Calif., packed the racing bike into his sport utility vehicle and hauled it to AuctionDrop Inc. in San Carlos, Calif. The company is one of a handful of new businesses that will take in a customer's merchandise, photograph it, post it on eBay, the Internet auction site, then ship it to the winning bidder. (Customers drop off the merchandise themselves.) 
 Entrepreneurs both large and small are betting on this business model. In recent months, the companies have set up more than a dozen consignment operations, from California to Alabama, specifically to take in merchandise to sell on eBay. They offer an old-fashioned storefront approach to the global, high-tech marketplace of Internet auctions. Some have aspirations of becoming national enterprises. 
 Others in the business offer these services on their own from their homes. An estimated 30,000 people do so through eBay's trading assistants program, which is now two years old. (The site is pages.ebay.com/sellercentral/formstools.html; click on "trading assistants.")
 Although bidding for products at auction on eBay is relatively simple, selling something on the site requires some technical skill, like transmitting digital photographs or designing an online ad. Yet this season, it may finally be as easy to get rid of unwanted holiday gifts by selling them over the Internet as it is to shop for gifts online. 
 "I've never sold anything on eBay before," Mr. Strohlein said. "The bottom line is, I don't really have the time to mess around with eBay and taking pictures of the stuff and so forth."
 He is exactly the kind of customer whom Randy Adams, the chief executive of AuctionDrop, has in mind. "They're a fairly sophisticated customer base, but they don't have a lot of time," Mr. Adams said. He suspects that what they do have is "tons of stuff sitting around their houses" -- and more to come after the holidays.
 Products sold through eBay or other Internet auction sites must be photographed, weighed, measured and described in detail on the Web site, then shipped to the buyer. Many successful sellers also monitor their products during the auction and respond quickly to e-mail questions from potential bidders. 
 Although there are several Internet auction sites, the new storefront businesses are focused on eBay, and most have designed their technical operations to interact with it.
 The consignment companies charge a commission -- usually around 30 to 35 percent -- based on the final selling price of a product. The buyer pays the shipping costs.
 The minimum commission at some of the businesses is $15; some charge more. And some, like AuctionDrop, accept products only if they believe that they will fetch at least $50 at auction.
 The competition is heating up, particularly on the West Coast. More than 20 outlets are scheduled to open in California in 2004. But industry experts expect more East Coast competition next year as well. 
 AuctionDrop and QuikDrop International, a franchise operation based in Costa Mesa, Calif., are the biggest players so far. They will go head to head in the Los Angeles market early next year: AuctionDrop, which has four stores in Northern California, plans to open its first Los Angeles store in January, and QuikDrop, which already has eight stores around the country, recently signed a franchise agreement for several stores in and around the city in coming months.
 They will also compete with Auction Wagon Inc., which opened its first store, in West Hollywood, Calif., last month.
 AUCTIONDROP, backed by $6 million in venture capital financing -- from Mobius Venture Capital and Draper Fisher Jurvetson -- plans to introduce up to six more in the Northern California area in the next few months. The co-founders, Mr. Adams and Bill Rollinson, who together started the Internet Shopping Network and eventually sold it to the Home Shopping Network, also plan to open seven stores and a processing site in the Los Angeles area early next year. The company expects to be in the New York metropolitan area by mid-2004.
 AuctionDrop has closed nearly 11,000 transactions since opening its first store in March, according to Mr. Adams. By early this month, the company had $1.3 million in total gross revenue, with nearly a quarter of it realized in November alone, he said. 
 QuikDrop now has two stores in California, two in Texas and one each in Montana, Alabama, Virginia and South Carolina. It has signed franchise agreements to open 24 stores in Southern California and 97 throughout the West in the next three years, according to Jack Reynolds, a co-founder. 
 Unlike AuctionDrop, which trucks its merchandise to a central processing site, products sold by QuikDrop are shipped directly from each store. Both companies usually accept objects only if they are of the size and weight that can be shipped by United Parcel Service, although QuikDrop makes exceptions for automobiles and other large equipment. 
 Last summer, the QuikDrop store in Huntington Beach, Calif., sold a Hummer that once belonged to Arnold Schwarzenegger, now the governor of California, for $70,000, according to Mr. Reynolds. 
 The two companies offer identical pricing structures, though each says it occasionally has commission discounts on very high-priced products. The businesses keep 38 percent of the first $200, then 30 percent of the next $300 and 20 percent of any amount over $500. (If an item fails to sell, the owner pays no fees.) That is in addition to eBay's commission, which is also a percentage based on the final selling price. (EBay charges 5.25 percent on the first $25, and 2.75 percent on the next $975, and 1.5 percent on any amount over $1,000.)
 Auction Wagon, meanwhile, hopes to build its market with significantly lower fees. It charges a flat 15 percent commission on all sales, with a $15 minimum. For an extra $10, the company will send someone to pick up items within a 20-mile radius of its store.
 AuctionBytes, an Internet newsletter that follows the online auction industry, offers a free chart that potential sellers can use to compare prices among consignment shops. It is at www.auctionbytes.com/cab/pages/consign.
 Setting up shop isn't always easy. David Steiner, president of AuctionBytes, notes that a couple of retail-style eBay consignment businesses have started and failed in the past few years, including MyEZsale, which set up shop in existing pack-and-ship stores in Denver and the New England area. That company "was funded with several million dollars and it failed miserably," Mr. Steiner said.
 And the flurry of new consignment businesses comes amid falling Internet auction prices in certain eBay markets, according to Mr. Steiner. 
 In the last three to four years, the prices of antiques and collectibles sold on eBay have dropped considerably, he said. "What used to be considered rare is now quite common" because the eBay market is so vast, he said. "If people don't win the collectible vase they want, they won't bid it up; they'll just wait it out" until a similar one appears for auction. A weak economy has also adversely affected the antiques market. 
 At the AuctionDrop processing site, in an industrial neighborhood in San Carlos, merchandise headed for sale is placed in gray plastic bins that make their way around a 20,000-square-foot warehouse by conveyor belt. Each item is bar-coded and photographed and is then sent to a worker who makes sure that it works, researches its value and designs and posts the listing. Once a product is sold, it is packaged and shipped via U.P.S.
 The company has sold everything from DVD players and collectible beer steins to a Las Vegas showgirl outfit. The most expensive item so far was perpetual rights to buy four season tickets to San Francisco 49ers home football games --with seats on the 50-yard line. The rights sold for $30,000. 
 NINE days after Mr. Strohlein dropped off his bicycle at AuctionDrop, it appeared for auction on eBay. Over the next seven days, the bicycle, a 10-year-old Klein Quantum, drew 13 bids. It sold for $581. AuctionDrop will keep $182.20, eBay will get $16.60 and Mr. Strohlein will receive a check for $382.20.
 Though he thought that the consignment fees were steep, Mr. Strohlein said he was willing to pay for the convenience. If he sold the racing bike himself, he said, he probably would have received more. But, he noted, the bike wasn't earning him any money while it was sitting in his garage. 
 Through its trading assistants program, eBay fans the consignment market by encouraging experienced, well-regarded sellers to offer their selling services to the public. Although these sellers are not employees, eBay will pay a portion of their advertising costs.
 The new storefront approach takes that model into the strip malls of America, making Internet auction selling simpler -- even for people with little technological knowledge. About 15 percent of AuctionDrop's customers so far do not have Internet access -- a fact that delights Walt Duflock, the manager of eBay's trading assistant program, because it means that even more business will come eBay's way. 
 Mr. Duflock said he thought that the storefront model would become more popular among people who might not otherwise be keen on handing over their belongings to a stranger for auction. "Some people will be more comfortable with the drop-off experience if it takes place in a clean, well-lit place" that looks like any other retail storefront, he said.
 Mr. Duflock says he expects the storefront model to catch on without causing much harm to the tens of thousands of trading assistants who already offer such services out of their homes or cars. But he warned that because of the added overhead costs of running a full-fledged retail operation, such consignment businesses could have a tougher time making money.
 "We ran the math on this thing a while back and said, 'Wow, that's hard,"' he said. "The single-store businesses who get this right will be the guys who open a retail store and go out and pound the phones" looking for repeat customers. Those customers would include businesses -- not just households -- with large quantities of products to sell.
 "If you clean out the garage and sell everything, the big question is, when do you come back?" Mr. Duflock asked.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joshua MacAdam is the president of Auction Wagon, one business set up specifically to sell merchandise for its customers on eBay. (Photo by Ann Johansson for The New York Times); Marc Strohlein of El Granada, Calif., sold a bike on eBay with the help of AuctionDrop. (Photo by Pat Strohlein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET AUCTIONS (91%); RETAILERS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); WEB SITES (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); THANKSGIVING (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Auctions

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Ebay Inc

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%)

PERSON: Karen Alexander

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



523 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
A Recovery For Profits, But Not for Workers

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
THIS economic recovery is distinctly unkind to workers. 
 Output is clearly rising, and, normally, that would feed into both corporate profits and labor income. But while profits have shot up as a percentage of national income, reaching their highest level since the mid-1960's, labor's share is shrinking. Not since World War II has the distribution been so lopsided in the aftermath of a recession. 
Profits, it turns out, never stopped rising as a share of national income all through the 2001 recession and the months afterward of weak economic growth. That did not change even as the recovery kicked in strongly last summer and hiring resumed. New data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis erases all doubt on this point.
 The reasons for labor's poor showing are not hard to spot. The employment rolls are still smaller, by 2.4 million jobs, than they were at the recession's start in March 2001. Those who are employed are also feeling the squeeze, particularly the 85 million people who hold office or factory jobs below the rank of supervisor or manager. Their average hourly wage, $15.46, is up only 3 cents since July, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. That wage is rising at an annual rate of less than 2 percent, barely enough to keep up with inflation, mild as it now is.
 "We have never seen in the 40 years that we have this hourly wage survey, wage growth that has been this slow," said Dean Baker, an economist at the Center for Economic and Policy Research. 
 That is unfortunate. Workers, after all, are also the nation's consumers. We are counting on their spending to turn the recovery into a first-class expansion. They must do that against the dead weight of reluctant hiring and miserly raises. The workers themselves are helpless to change this. For a generation, we have permitted labor's bargaining power to deteriorate. Successive administrations -- Republican and Democratic -- have abetted the deterioration. Only in vigorous booms, like that of the late 1990's, have workers been in enough demand to give them bargaining power. 
 The productivity saga highlights the deterioration. From the end of World War II until the late 1960's, productivity rose at a handsome pace. As the output of goods and services increased for each hour worked, the additional revenue flowed steadily into corporate profits and labor income. Then, as the productivity growth rate slowed, profits took the first hit, falling as low as 25 percent of total national income in the early 70's, according to a net profit measure constructed from government data by Edward N. Wolff, a New York University economist. His measure includes not only standard net income, but also profit from self-employment, rent and interest. 
 While profits' share of national income declined, labor's share held up. Its bargaining power in the 1970's, and even into the 80's, was still strong enough to sustain wage gains. The alternative -- outsourcing abroad or substituting foreign merchandise for domestic products -- was just beginning to materialize. We all know how weak labor soon became. Globalization, deregulation, declining union membership, a stagnant minimum wage and incessant layoffs took their toll. And as labor weakened, the profit share of national income recovered. 
 THE consequences are hitting home. When the productivity growth rate revived in the mid-1990's and accelerated in recent years, many forecasters thought that the revenue from rising output per worker would again be channeled to labor as well as to profits. But the productivity improvement came in a strange way. Rather than increasing output per worker, many companies maintained existing output and raised the productivity growth rate by getting rid of workers. Labor had grown too weak to prevent many companies from pocketing virtually all the gains from productivity -- or, as Mr. Wolff put it, "Labor is a forgotten part of this economy." 
 His measure shows that pretax profits skyrocketed in the third quarter, to nearly 30 percent of national income, at an annual rate, from 27 percent in the first quarter of 2001. And this despite the rising costs of health insurance, pensions and exercised stock options, all counted as labor income.
 The gorging on profits strains the recovery. Forecasters count on consumer spending to keep the expansion going. So far, consumers have performed admirably, drawing on mortgage refinancing, tax rebates and heavy borrowing at low interest rates to pay their bills. Once these resources run out -- and they are running out -- rising labor income must fill the gap.
 Unless the supply-siders are right. They hold to the view that robust business spending on capital goods can lead the way, generating consumer spending in its wake. This recovery, more than others in recent decades, is testing that doubtful thesis.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Rising Earnings"Corporate net profit as a percentage of national income. Graph tracks corporate net profit as a percentage of national income from 2001 through projected 2003. (Source by Edward N. Wolff New York University from Bureau of Economic Analysis data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); SALARY SURVEYS (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (61%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (56%) United States Economy; Recession and Depression; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Productivity; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

PERSON: Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



524 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: EXECUTIVE LIFE: THE BOSS; 
Dilbert, the Doodle

BYLINE:  By SCOTT ADAMS; As told to Barnaby J. Feder.

 BODY:
I GREW up in a small town in the Catskills. My father worked for the post office for more than 30 years. My mother became a real estate broker and later an assembly line worker to help put me through college. 
 I knew I wanted to be a cartoonist from the time I was 5, when I first learned that cartoonists existed. I wanted to get paid for drawing pictures all day long. But when you reach an age where you understand likelihood and statistics, you lose that innocence that anything is possible. In high school, I realized there was only one Charles Schulz and a lot of lawyers. I figured I would be a lawyer or work for a big company for a while and then start my own. 
 I expected I would succeed at something. In a small environment, you can be the best at a bunch of things. I was valedictorian of my class. I became the No.1 tennis player because hardly anyone played. 
 I went to Hartwick College in Oneonta, N.Y. I was an economics major. The most valuable class was one I designed for myself. I created an accounting system for the Coffee House, a campus beer, bagels and coffee place. It was student-managed, so I was a manager at 19. 
 One time, we needed a chairman and had to replace a bartender who was doing a bad job. The bartender was a friend. I tried to convince my friends to make him chairman instead of firing him. They did, and he was very successful. It was the first example of the Dilbert Principle, where people get promoted to the point where they can't do real harm.
I worked at Crocker National Bank in San Francisco as a teller. I was robbed twice at gunpoint so I enrolled in the management training program. I was just about to get fired as a teller. I'm somewhat dyslexic. I couldn't get the numbers in my drawer toadd up every day. 
 Dilbert was born at Crocker. His physical type was based on someone who worked there. I used him as a doodle during budget presentations. People were faxing them all over Crocker. Eventually, I moved to Pacific Bell and finished an M.B.A. at Berkeley at night. 
 Dilbert succeeded because of my business experience, not my cartooning talent. I could see the potential for e-mail at Pacific Bell and put my e-mail address in the strip to get feedback. Readers told me they wanted more Dilbert in the office. 
 I had the first syndicated strip on the Web. Then I got an offer from The Wall Street Journal to write a guest column, which became a book, "The Dilbert Principle," a No.1 best seller. When you hit No.1, the whole universe opens up. It's like a zipper. 
 The book writing is the hardest thing I do. Scott Adams Foods grew out of my need for nutrition when I was working the three jobs -- the phone company, the strip and the book -- and getting four hours of sleep. I hired a nutrition consultant and decided selling a retail food product was a business opportunity. 
 I got into the restaurant business when Stacey Belkin, a longtime friend who was managing a restaurant, said her dream was to own one. I asked her for a business case. She said, "What's a business case?" Her fearlessness sold me. The world rewards action. It doesn't reward much of anything else.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: SCOTT ADAMS -- Creator of "Dilbert" and chief executive of Scott Adams Foods (Drawing by Scott Adams) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); MANAGER TRAINING (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); CLASS RANKING (72%); TENNIS (67%); SPORTS (67%); DYSLEXIA (62%); ATHLETES (53%) Comic Books and Strips; Biographical Information

COMPANY: AT&T INC (64%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (64%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (64%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (64%)

PERSON: Barnaby J Feder; Scott Adams

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



525 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Dow Climbs Again, to a 19-Month High

BYLINE:  By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The three major stock market indexes rose last week. Only days after breaking the 10,000 barrier, the Dow Jones industrial average closed at a 19-month high. 
 The pattern of trading on Friday was unusual. That day was the quarterly expiration of stock options, index options, futures and single-stock futures, known as quadruple-witching. Perhaps for that reason, trading volumes were higher than usual at the beginning and the end of the day. And stocks dropped from their highest levels after a news report -- which was not confirmed by federal or local authorities -- that New York City faced an imminent threat of terrorism. 
 Nonetheless, optimism about the economic recovery and about corporate earnings drove stocks higher. Caterpillar rose 8.6 percent and Alcoa climbed 7.1 percent, the two best weekly performances in the Dow. 
 For the week, the Dow rose 236.06 points, or 2.4 percent, to close at 10,278.22. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 14.52 points, or 1.4 percent, to close at 1,088.66. The Nasdaq composite index had the smallest gain, 2.02 points, or 0.1 percent, to close at 1,951.02. 
 In the bond market, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.13 percent, from 4.24 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" Union PlantersNYSE: UPCTennessee's largest bank said that earnings might fall as much as 10 percent next year and that it would lay off workers as fewer customers take out mortgages.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $30.95WEEK'S CHANGE: -8.97%EST. '03 P/E: 12.21 DialNYSE: DLThe maker of Dial soap and Renuzit air fresheners agreed to be acquired for about $2.9 billion in cash by Henkel, the German consumer products company.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $28.41WEEK'S CHANGE: +9.78%EST. '03 P/E: 20.59 El PasoNYSE: EPThe nation's largest operator of natural-gas pipelines said it planned to sell many of its oil and gas operations in Asia, Europe and North America to reduce its $22 billion debt by a third.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $7.93WEEK'S CHANGE: +17.66%EST. '03 P/E: 45.84 Millennium PharmaceuticalsNNM: MLNMThe company ended its clinical trial of the cancer drug Velcade earlier than expected because it has already proved to be effective.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $17.69WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.80%EST. '03 P/E: -- Red HatNNM: RHATThe distributor of the free Linux computer operating system said its fiscal third-quarter profit surged almost 20-fold as sales rose, exceeding analysts' expectations.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $17.49WEEK'S CHANGE: +29.94%EST. '03 P/E: 224.23 PalmOneNNM: PLMOIn its first financial report since it spun off a software unit, the maker of hand-held computers reported a loss for its second fiscal quarter and said sales would fall short of estimates this quarter.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $10.52WEEK'S CHANGE: -28.44%EST. '03 P/E: -- Colgate-PalmoliveNYSE: CLShares fell after the company said it would buy Gaba Holding, a privately held Swiss toothpaste maker, for $830 million in cash. Colgate said the acquisition would reduce earnings by 3 percent in 2004.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $49.19WEEK'S CHANGE: -8.24%EST. '03 P/E: 20.07 FedExNYSE: FDXFedEx said its second-quarter profit plunged 63 percent, the biggest drop in six years. The company cited restructuring charges and weakness in its ground delivery business.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $69.43WEEK'S CHANGE: -5.86%EST. '03 P/E: 20.99 (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); FUTURES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); STOCK OPTIONS (58%); TERRORISM (54%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (56%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (56%); AA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (56%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (56%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (74%); GERMANY (59%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



526 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; 
Emerging-Market Bonds May Be Better Than Junk

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
NEXT year, the bond market faces the possibility of its first down year since 1999, so many analysts are advising investors to look at riskier, higher-yielding bonds to provide a cushion against losses elsewhere.
 While holding a portion of high-yielding junk bonds is a good idea in a broad bond portfolio, some investors are still unaccustomed to including a dollop of bonds from emerging markets, largely because they have a widely publicized history of defaults, from Russia to Ecuador. 
 Emerging-market bonds, however, are actually less risky than junk bonds. The average credit rating for the Lehman High Yield Index of junk bonds is between Ba and B2, three to four notches below investment grade. The rating for J.P. Morgan's Emerging Market Bond Index-Global is Ba2, just two notches below investment grade. Since 1998, the percentage of bonds in the index rated investment grade has risen to 48 percent from 8 percent. 
 Still, this sector has nearly matched the performance of junk bonds this year, with emerging-market bonds up 25.5 percent through Thursday and junk bonds up 28.5 percent.
Mohamed A. El-Erian, head of emerging-markets portfolio management at Pimco, the mutual fund company, says the improved credit quality in emerging markets is one reason he does not expect these markets to stumble this year.
 A rise in interest rates in the United States is unlikely to hurt emerging markets, Mr. El-Erian said, as long as the rates rise because of steady economic growth here. That growth would increase demand for products from emerging-market countries and would be good for the governments and companies issuing bonds, offsetting the negative impact of higher interest rates.
 He said that a surge in interest rates as a result of a swift and disorderly decline in the dollar was possible and would hurt emerging markets, just as such global financial disturbances have undermined them in the past. But he is not expecting such a decline.
 China could play an important role in determining the fate of the dollar and commodity prices, in turn influencing other emerging bond markets next year.
 If the Chinese government alters its currency's peg to the dollar, the dollar's fall could accelerate, especially against other Asian currencies. But while the Bush administration is pushing for such a change in Chinese policy to help American companies that compete with China, many analysts think that any easing of the peg will be gradual and not disruptive. The Chinese are helping to move commodity prices higher, as Chinese companies buy copper, iron ore and other basics to feed their factories.
 Many emerging-market countries, like Russia, Venezuela and Peru, depend on the export of commodities, from oil to copper. If commodity prices keep rising, that will strengthen these countries' economies and, in turn, the credit quality of their bonds.
 Despite these positives for emerging-market bonds, Mr. El-Erian said, picking specific credits next year will be more important than this year, when almost any emerging-market bond has been profitable. Government bonds from Venezuela, with all its political problems, have a total return of 39.4 percent through Thursday, according to J.P. Morgan. Bonds from Ecuador, which defaulted on its debt in 1999, have a return of 99.5 percent. Bonds from Turkey, which shares a boarder with Iraq, have a total return of 31.5 percent.
 FOR 2004, Mr. El-Erian still likes bonds from Brazil, Russia, Mexico, Peru, Tunisia, Ecuador, Panama and Ukraine. Among the countries he is avoiding are Turkey, Venezuela, Hungary and Poland. Venezuela is too explosive politically, he says, Turkey is too expensive and Hungary and Poland have a bumpy road ahead. 
 Even with careful bond selection, analysts don't expect this year's superb performance to be repeated next year. Mr. El-Erian says he is unlikely to come close to repeating the 32.2 percent return of the Pimco Emerging Market Bond fund, which is beating its benchmark, the J.P. Morgan emerging-market index, by almost seven points.
 "Nine to 12 percent is both realistic and attainable," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Slowing Down?"Total returns from emerging-market bonds are expected to moderate. Emerging Market Bond Index Global Graph tracks annual total return of Emerging Market Bond Index Global since 1994. (Source by J.P. Morgan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (95%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (95%); BONDS (93%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%) Stocks and Bonds

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PERU (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



527 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
Yes, the Shareholders Can Fight Back

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
AS shareholder wars with management go, the fight at Farmer Bros., a coffee distributor, is quite acrimonious. But it is also a fine example of what shareholders can accomplish when they pick up their pitchforks.
 Farmer Bros. has been public for more than 50 years, but some outside shareholders say it is still run like a family company. Roy F. Farmer, son of a founder, is chairman, and his son, Roy E. Farmer, is president. Roy F. Farmer controls a total of 53.91 percent of the stock through both his stake and as the overseer of family trusts that own 12.5 percent. 
 Farmer's biggest public shareholder is Franklin Mutual Advisers, with 9.6 percent. For a few years, Franklin has been quietly unhappy about what it considers Farmer's failure to realize value for public shareholders. But a plan by Farmer to change its state of incorporation from California to Delaware pushed Franklin to act. 
 In a recent filing, Farmer said reincorporation was wise because "the prominence and predictability of Delaware corporate law provide a more reliable foundation" for corporate governance. Shareholders will vote on the plan on Jan. 5.
 Franklin said it would vote against the plan because it would greatly diminish the rights of Farmer's public shareholders, and entrench management. That is also the view of Lucian A. Bebchuk, a professor of law, economics and finance at Harvard Law School. He studied the proposal for Steven D. Crowe, Catherine Crowe and Janis Crowe, beneficiaries of certain family trusts overseen by Mr. Farmer. 
 Mr. Bebchuk concluded that the plan would greatly reduce shareholder power, thanks to a "massive array of entrenching arrangements." Farmer's new bylaws would allow management to install a poison pill without shareholder approval, and would eliminate shareholders' ability to call a special meeting and to fill vacancies on the board when directors are removed by stockholders.
 A spokesman for Farmer declined to comment. But Roy F. Farmer has said that he will vote in favor of reincorporation with the Crowe family shares that he oversees. So Mr. Crowe filed an emergency petition in California state court to replace Mr. Farmer with a temporary trustee to vote the Crowe shares at the Jan. 5 meeting. The court hearing on the issue is set for Wednesday. If the Crowe shares are removed from Mr. Farmer's hands, his majority stake becomes a minority one, at 40 percent.
 Management's control is threatened by another shareholder suit. This one alleges that because 70 percent of Farmer assets are in cash and short-term investments, it is an unregistered investment company, not a coffee concern. A hearing on this case is scheduled for Tuesday in federal court in Los Angeles.
 In its most recent proxy, Farmer said the Securities and Exchange Commission had raised concerns about whether it is an unregistered investment company. If Farmer is found to be such a company, management could lose the right to vote the 9 percent of shares held in an employee stock ownership plan. The company has loaned money to the ESOP to buy Farmer shares; if it is found to be an investment company, such loans would be barred by regulations. 
 Weave these strands together and Farmer shareholders may gain the upper hand. "This case shows that investors actually have the practical ability to take control of their own interests," said Gary Lutin, an investment banker at Lutin & Company in New York who represents institutional shareholder interests in corporate control contests. "Ultimately it's up to investors themselves to fix what doesn't work."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Worried Investors" Graph tracks Farmer Bros. stock price since January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (92%); BUSINESS INCORPORATIONS (89%); COFFEE & TEA (89%); COFFEE (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (84%); LITIGATION (84%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (78%); MISC FOOD WHOLESALERS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PERSONAL TRUSTS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); PETITIONS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); LAWYERS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) Suits and Litigation; Relocation of Business

ORGANIZATION: Farmer Bros Co; Franklin Mutual Advisers; Farmer Bros Co

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson; Roy F Farmer

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Delaware; California

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



528 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Business People; 
Santa's Bag Full? He's Probably Been Cashing Out

BYLINE:  By Amy Cortese

 BODY:
Silicon Valley, like the rest of the economy, seems to be emerging from its slump. Venture capital investments have been edging up, with $11.9 billion invested in 1,357 start-ups this year, according to VentureOne. That is still a pittance compared with the heady heights of three years ago, when venture capital firms plowed $94 billion into 6,196 companies. But there is cautious optimism: more young companies are entering the public markets, giving the venture capital firms the all-important opportunity to cash out of their investments. 
 Now, add this to the signs of recovery: the annual holiday card from Draper Fisher Jurvetson, a venture capital firm in Redwood City, Calif. This year, thousands of its friends received a card featuring a poem by Tim Draper. Titled "Twas the Night Before Payroll," it is an ode to the travails and undying optimism of the venture business. 
 In the poem, Company X is an archetypal start-up: it has a promising product but is about to run out of cash. In the end, it is saved by a big order from Hewlett-Packard. In one stanza, Mr. Draper, whose firm has invested in more than a dozen start-ups this year, takes the opportunity to gently poke some of his venture capital peers who sat on the sidelines during the downturn:
On Kleiner, on Benchmark, on Mobius, and Venrock
 On Highland, on Sequoia, on Menlo, and Greylock
 Term sheets they dusted off from before the fall,
 Now cash away! Cash away! Cash away all!
 Mr. Draper, who is vacationing in Africa, was not available for comment. But the firm's managing director, Andreas Stavropoulos, was happy to share his thoughts. Behind his partner's bigger-than-life persona, he said, there is the soul of an artiste. Mr. Draper often writes poems, he said, mostly rhyming and set to songs, but he acknowledged that they were not exactly to his taste. "He has some nice metaphors and similes," Mr. Draper said, "but I find fault with his meter."
 Mr. Draper also paints, and some of his work hangs in the firm's offices. "He is into the pastoral scenes," Mr. Stavropoulos said. "He likes painting sheep."
 A metaphor for the venturebusiness, perhaps?
 "We'd like to believe that's not the case," he said. "But we do see flocklike behavior in certain cases." Amy Cortese

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (94%); CHRISTMAS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); POETRY (88%); BONDS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Christmas Cards; Christmas; Venture Capital

COMPANY: DRAPER FISHER JURVETSON (91%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Draper Fisher Jurvetson

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (91%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: Amy Cortese; Tim Draper

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



529 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: The Tax Cut and New Jobs 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "As Stimulus, Tax Cuts May Soon Go Awry" (Economic View, Nov. 30), which listed ways in which the recent tax reductions could backfire: 
 The column said the additional spending generated by the tax cuts had created jobs for the economy. That may have been the case in the past, but the combination of globalization with investment-oriented business tax cuts has created a new day in America. 
 If businesses invest in new equipment, their productivity can be improved, their outlay is fixed, and the cost of the equipment may be partially offset by new tax breaks. If, instead, they invest in additional workers, their productivity may drop at the same time their health care exposure skyrockets. Overshadowing both these alternatives is the option to outsource worldwide.
 The bottom line is that many of the jobs that built and sustained America's middle class are disappearing, and once they're gone, they will never come back, no matter how much money business makes or how many taxes the administration cuts.

Martin B. Tittle
Ann Arbor, Mich., Dec. 1

The writer is a lawyer specializing in international trade and taxation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (78%); OUTSOURCING (76%); WRITERS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%) Taxation; United States Economy; Labor

PERSON: martin b tittle

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



530 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Lords of the Rush, the Return and the Regift

BYLINE:  By HUBERT B. HERRING

 BODY:
 Russell Baker once suggested renaming Thanksgiving Thunderherd Day -- a kickoff for a month of wild spending. Thunderherd Day seems to be creeping a bit later, though. 
An American Express survey has found that more shoppers are delaying until December their plunge into the mall -- or the Web. And 10 percent said they planned to start only a week before Christmas. That is up from 8 percent last year. 
 Much of the frenzy is for naught, of course. Thirty-six percent of shoppers expect, sight unseen, to return some of the gifts they'll get, the survey shows. And 31 percent have been known, if you'll pardon the expression, to "regift" -- give away a gift they have received. The biggest regifters? Women win easily, 60 percent to 40 percent. HUBERT B. HERRING

GRAPHIC: Charts Estimated average spending on Christmas gifts, 2003 Customers who finish shopping the day before Christmas.: $1,019Customers who finish shopping during the week before Christmas: $938People who finish their shopping during the week before Christmas plan to give: Clothing: 85%Music, DVD's: 78Games, toys: 71Gift certificates: 69Fragrances, cosmetics: 56 RETAIL SALESGraph tracks weekly year-over-year change of REDBOOK AVERAGE since June. NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONSGraph tracks weekly year-over-year change since June. HOUSING PRICESGraph tracks change in Consumer Price Index from December 2002 to November 2003. PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGSGraph tracks weekly totals in thousands since June. ONLINE SALESGraph tracks weekly dollars in billions since June. HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATESGraph tracks daily four-week moving average for Los Angeles, Chicago, and New York from June through Dec. 13. (Sources by American Express Retail Index Christmas shopping ; Redbook Research retail sales ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics housing prices ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; Smith Travel Research hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); THANKSGIVING (88%); RETAILERS (71%) Retail Stores and Trade; Holiday Trade; Christmas; Gifts; Research

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) American Express Co

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: Hubert B Herring

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (74%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



531 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: LETTER FROM MIAMI; 
A Century-Old City Still in the Process of Being Invented

BYLINE:  By Abby Goodnough

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
Just past the shadows of a highway overpass, a curiosity rises from the sidewalk: two walls of a giant living room, papered in pink and open to the sky, with a beckoning couch and a window looking west, away from the beaches that have long been this region's wealth and pride.
 The artists who created this unfinished room, in a neighborhood most visitors never glimpse, say the work is a metaphor for Miami, the so-called Magic City -- just over 100 years old and still deciding what it wants to make of itself. 
 Miami, as ever, is yearning to be taken seriously. Not as a workaday annex of its hedonistic neighbor, Miami Beach, but as a cosmopolitan center in its own right. 
Evidence of the city's ambitions is abundant these days. Along Biscayne Boulevard, whose 40's-era motels became ramshackle drug and prostitution dens after Interstate 95 drained it of tourist traffic, billboards trumpet planned luxury condominiums named Nirvana, Blue and Mist.
A Four Seasons just opened downtown, in a new building that Miami brags is the tallest in Florida. Two miles north, a $344 million performing arts center is going up, the largest built in this country since the Kennedy Center. Its vision statement proclaims that the center, designed by Cesar Pelli, "will transform Miami into the cultural capital of the Americas."
The city is also competing to be the headquarters of the Free Trade Area of the Americas -- it bristled when one of it rivals, Atlanta, proclaimed itself the "Gateway to the Americas," a moniker Miami has long considered its own.
Pointing to the real-estate frenzy -- not along the ocean, for once, but in the long-blighted downtown, which used to be as deserted as a suburban office park after 5 p.m. -- some people say Miami is on the brink of attaining the status it has coveted for years.
"I can't think of any city that's had more development energy and ambition than Miami has at the moment," said Michael Hardy, president of the Performing Arts Center Trust, which will run the center after it opens in 2006. "The city and county leadership finally believe it's important to develop everything and not just be a beach community if they're going to have a future beyond tourist dollars."
With 362,500 residents, Miami proper ranks nowhere near the nation's largest cities -- according to the 2000 census, it is less populous than Albuquerque, Fresno, even Tulsa.
Yet its social problems are those of a megalopolis. It has a history of racial tensions, drug-fueled violence and corrupt political leaders giving developers free rein. It has a higher percentage of people in poverty than any other American city of 250,000 or more, census figures show.
This is a city with few common memories, since most residents come from somewhere else. And since it is just a way station for many, Miami, which was incorporated in 1896, has historically lacked a collective civic soul.
Though dizzyingly diverse, it is not a melting pot: Miami's many communities -- Cuban, Haitian and Colombian, New York Jewish, African-American, gay and European -- often clash and many are still focused on the places they left behind, pledging their money and sympathies there.
But that may be changing: a recent poll found that Cuban-Americans 45 and younger are more focused on improving their quality of life here than on overthrowing Fidel Castro. Younger residents have the potential to make Miami a world-class city, some longtime residents say.
To those people, Miami is the kind of mecca that New York has been to so many. But unlike immigrants in New York and Los Angeles, who are often stuck at the bottom of the economic ladder for at least a generation, many Latin Americans here move quickly into the middle class, and even into wealth.
They are contributing to Miami's evolving identity on every level: in low-paying service jobs, as artists and musicians, as political leaders and banking executives, even as developers helping to revitalize downtown.
"In L.A., if you're Latin you're in the restaurant kitchen," said Roberto Behar, half of a husband-wife artistic team that created the model living room on North Miami Avenue in 2001. "Here, the mixing of cultures occurs in the banks, at the art openings, on every level. And Miami is such a baby -- whatever you do, you feel you can be part of the history of the place."
Mr. Behar and his wife, Rosario Marquardt, have made their mark with toylike art projects, which they say befit a young city playing with ideas for its future. In addition to "The Living Room," they include a giant red M at a downtown commuter-train station and a house of cards surrounded by scaffolding, a symbol of Miami's state of precariousness.
Mr. Behar, who moved here in the mid-1980's from Argentina by way of New York City, compared Miami to New York in the early 1900's, when that city's cultural institutions, landmark buildings and neighborhood characteristics were still being created. Mr. Behar and Ms. Marquardt are among a small but vocal group calling for more careful, creative urban planning here. One bright example they point to is the so-called Design District, a gritty neighborhood just north of downtown that one developer is trying to transform into the city's creative laboratory.
The developer, Craig Robins, started buying up buildings in the neighborhood in 1994 and now owns 35. He is replacing neglected, nondescript structures with provocative designs, each by a different architect.
Mr. Robins is picky not just about who designs his buildings, but about whom they attract as tenants. He wants artists, furniture and clothing designers, architects and music executives.
Is this place on its way to becoming something big? The answer, people like Mr. Behar say, lies in what Miami can teach other cities about the future. Miami may be the prototype for what American cities will look like a century from now, with residents from other countries bringing new languages, interests and values to transform the culture, economy and landscape.
Approaching this city from the air, the view is often of ocean, then the island that is Miami Beach, then islands scattered in the bay, the city sprawling just beyond. Mr. Behar and Ms. Marquardt have a vision for one of the islands, a tiny patch named for Henry Flagler, the oil baron who built a railroad to Miami, opening it to the world.
Their idea is to carve Flagler Island into a star, so that the myriad people who arrive by plane can latch onto a landmark.
"In every culture, stars stand for destiny, for finding your future," Ms. Marquardt said. "It seems right to have such a thing be part of the invention of this place."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roberto Behar and Rosario Marquardt, a Miami artist team, and their "Living Room" on North Miami Avenue. (Photo by Barbara P. Hernandez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); BEACHES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); REFUGEES (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); SUBURBS (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); CITIES (70%); TOURISM (68%); CONDOMINIUMS (67%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (67%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (67%); CENSUS (62%); POLITICS (60%); POVERTY RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Hispanic-Americans; Economic Conditions and Trends; Geographic Profiles

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (55%); FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (54%)

PERSON: Abby Goodnough

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (95%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (69%) Miami (Fla); Miami (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



532 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE RECONSTRUCTION; 
After Backing U.S. in Iraq, Poland Waits Expectantly for EconomicPayback

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WARSAW, Dec. 19 

 BODY:
As the Pentagon starts handing out contracts to rebuild Iraq's sundered roads, bridges, wells and pipelines, few people are waiting with more impatience than the Poles. 
 In the view of Poland, which risked the ire of its European neighbors by backing the war, committed troops to the occupation and lost its first soldier last month to a sniper near Baghdad, this is payback time. 
 While the Polish government cited moral and political reasons for its support of the United States, economic motives were never far from the surface. Polish officials freely acknowledged that they hoped that backing a friend in a time of need would translate into more profitable economic ties. 
To many here, winning contracts in Iraq is one way to judge whether that bet paid off. Some see it as an ominous sign that Poland has so far netted just one project, a $7 million telecommunications contract.
"We keep hearing this is such an important alliance, but we've seen little value from it," said Marek Ostrowski, a leading foreign affairs commentator. "We're starting to feel this is a one-way street."
Poland's grievances extend beyond Iraq. Its broader economic ties with the United States have languished in recent years. Despite being the most populous country in Central Europe, with 39 million people, it ranks 63rd among America's trading partners, behind Jamaica. 
The United States, once the biggest foreign investor in Poland, has fallen to third place, after France and Germany, as American firms build their auto assembly plants and semiconductor factories elsewhere. 
Underscoring the one-way nature of its ties with the United States, the Polish government agreed late last year to buy 48 American F-16 fighter jets for about $3 billion. The contract, which Poland awarded to Lockheed Martin over two European manufacturers, is starting to stir frustration here because of the time it is taking Lockheed to fulfill its promise to steer American investments to Poland to offset the purchase. 
"It's not a pretty picture," said Tony Housh, the former director of the American Chamber of Commerce here. "We've got decent investments, but the trade relationship is nowhere near what it should be." 
Iraq could be another case of unmet expectations. About 8,000 Polish firms have expressed an interest in projects. Sixteen groups, the biggest names in Polish industry, have been assembled to bid for contracts, which includes $18.6 billion in American tenders that have been put off-limits to opponents of the war, including France, Germany and Russia. The trouble is, the scale of projects in Iraq may put them out of the reach of all but the biggest Polish contractors. "There are very few Polish companies with that capacity," Mr. Housh said. 
That has not stopped holiday visions of Iraqi bridges and oil wells dancing in the heads of lobbyists and consultants here. Warsaw crackles with gossip about who has the best connections in Washington, and how much those ties might be worth. 
"I'm looking for half a billion dollars in 2004," said Victor Boraks, organizer of the best-financed group, which includes Poland's state oil company, a power generation company and an engineering firm. "We have the manpower, we have the capability, we have the experience." 
Poland also has a history of work in Iraq: about 40,000 Poles toiled therein the 1970's and 1980's, building more than 200 projects, including roads, bridges and refineries. Mr. Boraks said he had the names of 1,000 Poles with experience in Iraq, many of whom speak Arabic.
Poland was valued by Iraq because its labor costs were low, and the quality of its work was comparable to that of other European countries. Some Poles note sardonically that their workers were so busy building roads in Iraq that the roads here suffered, adding to its problems in luring investment. 
"It would be difficult to find another country with so much experience in Iraq," said Tadeucz Iwinski, a foreign policy adviser to Prime Minister Leszek Miller. "We don't need any preferential treatment in contracts, but we should have this expertise taken into account."
Polish officials spent two days last week appealing to the secretary of commerce, Donald L. Evans, who visited Warsaw on a tour of Central Europe. Mr. Evans was lavish in his praise of Poland's military support, but he offered few tangible economic benefits, largely because contracts sought by Poland are being awarded by the Pentagon, not his department.
Mr. Evans, after meeting with M.B.A. students at the Warsaw Stock Exchange, said: "We have assured officials that we will help them in making their case. There are going to be lots of opportunities for investment in Iraq."
The likelihood, executives here said, is that Polish companies will be given subcontracts by American firms, like the Halliburton Company, which has a huge no-bid reconstruction contract from the Army. Mr. Boraks said his group had signed an agreement with a Halliburton subsidiary, Kellogg, Brown & Root, which will give it the first crack at subcontracts. 
Kellogg, Brown & Root was recently ensnared in a contentious debate when a Pentagon investigation found evidence that it had overcharged the government by as much as $61 million for fuel it delivered to Iraq.
Diplomats here say the Poles could make out nicely with a series of subcontracts, perhaps even earning $2 billion over five years. But Polish officials understand that, at heart, this is a political process. There is talk of Prime Minister Miller paying another visit to Washington.
Meanwhile, the Poles are making their case to whomever will listen. After Mr. Evans's visit to the stock exchange on Tuesday, its chief executive, Wieslaw Rozlucki, sought out a reporter. 
"There is a great deal of expectation in Poland," he said. "I would say we view it almost as a moral obligation. If there are two bids which are identical, I think the Polish bid should be chosen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Polish soldier with the coffin of Maj. Hieronim Kupczyk, who was killed last month in Iraq. (Photo by Polish Army, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (86%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LOBBYING (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); TRENDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (53%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); POLAND (97%); IRAQ (95%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%) Iraq; Poland; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



533 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 550 words

PERSON: Henry Saglio 

HEADLINE: Henry Saglio, 92, 'Father' of Poultry Industry 

BYLINE:  By ANAHAD O'CONNOR

 BODY:
Henry Saglio, who helped make poultry the most popular meat in America when he slashed production costs by breeding a meatier bird that matured quickly and laid more eggs, died on Dec. 13 at a nursing home in Connecticut. He was 92.
 The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter, Janet Saglio. 
 "He is the father of the poultry industry," said Frank Perdue, chairman of the executive committee at Perdue Farms. "He put so much time and focus into this that even a year ago he was still coming up with ideas."
Using only a small coop he had fashioned from an old piano, Mr. Saglio began raising chickens while growing up on a fruit and vegetable farm in rural Connecticut.
His interest in breeding started when a friend said he wanted white-feathered chickens instead of the more unsightly dark ones. 
Mr. Saglio soon bred a flock of completely white-feathered chickens, and went on to breed White Rocks that had extra meat, reached maturity quickly and laid more eggs. The bird was a hit, taking second place in the 1948 "A.&P. Chicken of Tomorrow" contest in Delaware.
He built on that early success by transforming his parents' farm, Arbor Acres, into what became a leader in poultry genetics for four decades. With operations in 21 countries, the company helped set off a poultry boom that sharply increased the meat's popularity and made it one of the least expensive meats.
"Back then chicken was probably the most expensive meat you could buy," said Richard Lobb, a spokesman for the National Chicken Council in Washington, which Mr. Saglio helped found in 1954. "Most people only ate it occasionally, like one night a week. The industry needed a bird that could produce a lot of meat and grow to market size quickly. By cutting down on production costs, Mr. Saglio came up with a more desirable product."
Today, the Department of Agriculture says, chicken consumption in this country stands at about 82.1 pounds per person, well above that of beef. In the early 1960's, Mr. Lobb said, Americans ate only 28 pounds per person a year.
Born in Glastonbury, Conn., in 1911, Mr. Saglio was the son of Italian immigrants. 
Based on its success, Arbor Acres, his first company, earned backing from the International Basic Economy Corporation, which Nelson A. Rockefeller had started to promote economic activity in developing countries. I.B.E.C. bought Arbor Acres in the 1960's, and Mr. Saglio stayed on for several years until starting Avian Farms International with his son, Robert.
"There was once a point where if you ate a commercially produced chicken, there was an 8 out of 10 chance that it was from an Arbor Acres breeding stock," Robert Saglio said. 
Several years ago, Henry Saglio became one of the first breeders to stop using human antibiotics in chickens. Concerned about reports of widespread resistance to the drugs, he founded Pureline Genetics, a poultry breeding company for antibiotic-free chicken.
Mr. Saglio's wife, Florence Miller, died in 1971. Since 1981, he lived mainly lived in Marathon, Fla., but he also had homes in Watch Hill, R.I., and Glastonbury.
In addition to his son, Robert, of Watch Hill, and a daughter, Janet, of Newton, Mass., Mr. Saglio is survived by a brother, Hugo, of Bloomfield, Conn.; a sister, Frances Dogan of Falls Church, Va.; and five grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POULTRY (95%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MEATS (89%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (78%); CHICKEN FARMING (78%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (78%); BIRDS (78%); AGRICULTURE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (65%); IMMIGRATION (60%); ANTIBIOTICS (60%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: PERDUE FARMS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS112340 POULTRY HATCHERIES (57%); NAICS112330 TURKEY PRODUCTION (57%)

Anahad O'Connor

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Food and Restaurants 

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



534 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 1678 words

HEADLINE: One Housing Woe Gives Way to Another; 
New York Is No Longer Awash in Abandoned Buildings. Now the Issue Is Supply.

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
It was the worst real-estate portfolio imaginable: ten thousand of New York City's most woebegone buildings, all of them in tax arrears, vacant, burned out or occupied by some of the city's poorest tenants in its most addled neighborhoods. A hundred thousand apartments held by a landlord with hardly any money for repairs and, it seemed, hardly any hope.
 That reluctant landlord was the City of New York, which seized the buildings and empty lots in the 1970's and 80's from owners who were delinquent in paying taxes. 
 From the South Bronx to Central Brooklyn, this collection of scarred properties reconfigured the image of urban blight in America. On the windows of forsaken buildings lining the Cross-Bronx Expressway, the city pasted decals of potted plants and Venetian blinds in a half-baked beautification campaign. The blight was considered so dire, so irredeemable, that the city's top housing official once suggested that the South Bronx be abandoned. 
 But with little celebration or notice, the city has gradually whittled that sad inventory down by more than 95 percent, building by building, over four mayoral administrations, so that it now owns fewer than 800 buildings, containing 4,000 units. It has done so largely through huge capital investments in dozens of programs allocating money for repairs, encouraging new construction, promoting homeownership and working with development groups to take over and manage the housing.
For some, particularly the city officials, community groups and housing developers who made a leap of faith in addressing the problem, the transformation has been a stunning, unequivocal success. It stabilized neighborhoods. It oiled the economy. It improved the city's image and helped fuel the broader revitalization of New York.
 For others, though, there is some regret about what might have been. While they do not question the effort's triumphs, they believe that the city could have been more creative and thoughtful -- developing more units in the same space, for instance, or making sure that rents in redeveloped buildings remained low.
It is all the more regrettable, they say, now that homelessness is reaching record levels and once-forlorn neighborhoods are increasingly unaffordable for many New Yorkers.
Whether the city's campaign was a complete success or a missed opportunity, no one disputes the notion that New York finds itself at a crossroads as it confronts a new set of housing challenges without this inventory of city-owned property. As the portfolio dwindles, the city's challenge is shifting from rehabilitating housing and land to dealing with a shortage of both.
Those old buildings and vacant lots were such a staple of city life that officials regularly invoked their Latin nickname: "in rem," or "against the thing." The legal term technically referred to the city's possession of a building as collateral against a tax-delinquent owner, but soon became shorthand for the city's entire housing policy.
 "You can't underestimate how important 'in rem' was," said Irene Baldwin, executive director of the Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development, which represents more than 100 community development groups. "This was the foundation that everything was built on. It wasthe lens you look through. And now, the conversation is all about how the 'in rem' stock is gone, and what we do from here."
Since 1676, the city has had the right to seize control of dilapidated houses and offer them to owners who would renovate them, according to Richard Plunz's "A History of Housing in New York City" (Columbia University Press, 1990). But the city did not manage many buildings, officials say, until the last quarter of the 20th century, when its fiscal crisis, coupled with rising crime and declining population, contributed to a surge of abandonment.
As the number of tax delinquencies escalated, the city put more pressure on landlords to make their payments, slicing the grace period for foreclosure to one year from three. But the delinquencies continued, and the city began to stockpile undesirable buildings.
It was not until the mid-1980's, when the financial crisis had abated and the city's bond rating had improved, that Mayor Edward I. Koch was able to initiate the most pivotal step: a 10-year, $5 billion capital program.
In all, the city developed a dozen or so core programs to deal with its stock of troubled buildings. Many focused on providing financing for repairs and soliciting responsible owners from among developers, newly formed tenant cooperatives and community development groups with little experience in housing.
In 1990, Community Board 10 in central Harlem had by far the greatest number of "in rem" buildings -- 1,123. Other places with an inordinate number of the buildings were Bedford-Stuyvesant, western Harlem, the South Bronx, East New York, Bushwick and South Jamaica.
In many cases, the city held on to these properties for two decades or more because of financial and bureaucratic hurdles -- becoming a landlord that many residents said was even worse than the delinquent ones. While housing officials say that property managers did their heroic best to maintain basic services despite daunting conditions, others say the city did a shoddy job of maintenance, security and management.
That changed during the Giuliani administration, particularly after the passage of Local Law 37 in 1996. The law gave the city the authority to sell the liens on a property that was in decent shape to a tax collection agency. But for the most run-down properties, the city was given the power to transfer development rights to another party.

Neighborhoods Benefited
The number of vacant lots in the city dropped by 21 percent between 1985 and 1996, according to research by Alex Schwartz, an associate professor of urban policy and management at New School University.
Property values have climbed as well, according to research soon to be published by the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University. 
Before the city built or rehabilitated vacant properties, the sales price of a house or apartment building within 500 feet of one was 20 percent less than the price of others elsewhere in the same census tract. But one year after the city finished the rehabilitation project, that difference had been sliced in half, to 10 percent.
Take what happened in the Mount Eden section of the Bronx. In the late 1980's, it resembled a war zone, rife with crime and drug dealers. By the mid-90's, it had undergone a renaissance, because of the efforts of the Settlement Housing Fund, a nonprofit group that built a 16-building, 995-unit complex called New Settlement Houses for low- and moderate-income families.
One neighbor, Marilyn Stroud, said the impact of New Settlement was beyond comprehension. In the 70's, she said, "My children would go to school and come back home, and that was it. My kids knew nobody. I knew nobody. But all the parents get to know each other now. And I can go out at 2 or 3 in the morning, to go the store, and get some milk. I'm amazed."
As is the case in Mount Eden, "in rem" buildings are becoming harder to spot these days. By June, the city says, there will be fewer than 800 of them, containing fewer than 4,000 units, most in Brooklyn and upper Manhattan. And by 2011, the city is expected to sell off its entire inventory, according to a recent report by the city's Independent Budget Office.
"I'm incredibly proud of it," said Jerry J. Salama, a deputy commissioner of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development in the mid-90's.
Given the safeguards now in place, Mr. Salama said, it is highly improbable that the city will ever again see widespread housing abandonment. And yet, a new housing survey to be released this week by New York University reports that long-term delinquencies on property taxes jumped by roughly one-third during 2002, after years of steady decline.
It might be a blip, said Michael H. Schill, a law professor, director of the Furman Center and co-author of the study. Or it might be "an early warning that we have of weakness in the housing stock" that could be worsened by the city's recent property tax increase, rising insurance costs and other factors.

Priorities Questioned
Whatever happens, many housing advocates think the city squandered an opportunity to develop a response to the housing crunch.
Harold DeRienzo, the president of the Parodneck Foundation and the founding executive director of the Banana Kelly Community Improvement Association, a South Bronx nonprofit group that renovated more than 2,000 apartments, said the city was shortsighted in trying to "recreate the suburbs" in places like the South Bronx by emphasizing small, boutique projects like town houses or two-family homes, instead of denser low-rise apartments. It amounted to what he said was "underbuilding on our vacant land, especially considering that the infrastructure was already in place: the subway, the sewer, the utilities."
Now the biggest housing priority, city officials and housing advocates say, is dealing with the scarcity of remaining land.
Last year, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced a $3 billion program to repair, preserve and build 65,000 units of housing, and suggested that the city squeeze as much housing as possible out of properties held by other agencies, like the city Public Housing Authority. He has also expressed a keen interest in rezoning and brownfields development. Jerilyn Perine, the city's commissioner of Housing Preservation and Development, said the mayor's plan was an attempt to invent some "new machinery" to address the end of the "in rem" inventory. It promises to be difficult, she said, and there will no doubt be missteps.
But she is always humbled and inspired, she said, by how much has changed.
"I think you could get on the subway today and you could get out at East Tremont, you could walk on the street, have lunch, walk in the park, watch children come and go from school," she said. "In '78, trust me, you couldn't have done that."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 23, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, a picture on Sunday showing buildings on Columbus Avenue near 108th Street in Manhattan, with an article about the decrease in abandoned buildings, was reproduced in mirror image in early editions. In the first photograph, madein 1991 before the buildings were rehabilitated, the cars on the street were actually parked facing to the right.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At left, the lobby of 262 Van Buren Street in Brooklyn in 1995, and the lobby in 2001. The city often takes over properties and sells them to owners who renovate them.; Buildings on Columbus Avenue near 108th Street in Manhattan, sealed in 1991, by 1997 had been taken over by the city and fixed up, but priced out of reach for many. (Photographs by the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development)(pg. 49); Marilyn Stroud in front of 1512 Townsend Avenue in the Bronx, holding a photo of the same building before housing revitalization efforts in the area got under way. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. 52) Chart/Map:Map tracks the vacant and rental buildings owned by New York City (by community district) in 1990.Most: Manhattan Community Board 10 1,123 buildings 16,603 units Graph tracks the vacant and rental buildings owned by New York City (by community district) in 2003.Most: Manhattan Community Board 10 153 buildings 1,934 units (Source by New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development)(pg. 52)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); FORECLOSURE (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); HOMELESSNESS (65%) Housing; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Taxation; Property Taxes; Homeless Persons; Foreclosures; Housing

PERSON: David W Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



535 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: In Princetonian's Spare Telling, Class of '33 Drifts Into Winter 

BYLINE:  By ANDY NEWMAN

 BODY:
Here now is the latest news from the Princeton University class of 1933, as reported by the class secretary, F. Tremaine Billings:
 Past president Curly Marsh is unbeatable. Still can't swallow and now has developed diabetes, but is holding his weight and getting around. . . . According to Dottie, Sam Loveland's memory is gone. Dottie visits him regularly and is not sure whether he knows her. . . . Maddy Haythe, having lost the sight in one eye after a tough fall, is cheerful and active. 
 As Dr. Billings has so often said, still a great, strong class. 
For the last five years, Dr. Billings, a retired professor of medicine in Nashville, has supplied the Princeton Alumni Weekly with regular updates on his classmates, mostly erstwhile captains of capitalism and leaders of men with musty names like Sedgwick "Sedge" Snedeker, Oil Spencer, Bink Dannenbaum, Sloat Hodgson and Rushmore Patterson.
Many of his postings have simply related the putterings and mutterings of a pack of graying Tigers. For example, the April 19, 2000, bulletin read, in part:
While his health has been better, Ray Paul seems to be doing very well. He has long since retired from processing whale products. He plays golf and gets a little other exercise. 
PUB-DATE: June 5, 2002:
But increasingly, as death and decrepitude tighten their grip on the class -- only 56 of the 622 graduates remain -- Dr. Billings's dispatches, always models of economy, have cut ever closer to the bone.
Consider his account of Joe and Bobbie Upson's trip to Joe's 70th class reunion in June (at which, Dr. Billings noted, "our bus proved very popular as we could enter and leave it without danger of falling"):
After Princeton, they also enjoyed Bobbie's 65th Radcliffe reunion and then spent some time reminiscing with George Perera's daughter. When he thought the time had come, George simply stopped his dialysis. 
A great strong class, smaller.
For a group of men who spent their adult lives astride the world, success is defined more and more in terms of survival. This is from Oct. 9, 2002:
Maddy Haythe has had a tough time. The week after Christmas, he fell and broke seven ribs. After returning home, he fell and broke his glasses, puncturing his right eye and losing sight in that eye. He says, "I'm fine otherwise." Henry Thompson writes, "feeble but still extant!" 
Jan. 29, 2003: Sally and Bink Dannenbaum are very happy and healthy. Bink is deaf as a post, but his voice over the phone is strong, clear, and cheerful. He can only hear Sally. Love conquers all! 
And yet, Dr. Billings said one sunny Saturday morning last month as he sat at his dining room table, "I don't feel as if I'm watching anybody fade away.
"It just happens," he continued. "It just seems like you hardly watch the days go by. You hardly watch the people fade away, sort of the same way. I don't realize I'm watching. I just realize they're fewer now."
Or, as he put it in the March 27, 2002, column: 
Ed Bartlett is in fine form -- he walks every day, shoots his age in golf "from the ladies' tees." Time goes by as though telephone poles were a picket fence.
At Princeton, F. Tremaine Billings, otherwise known as Josh, was a busy young man. (The F stands for Frederic. "My father had a 'k' and my mother dropped it," Dr. Billings said. "She thought it was common.") Captain of the football team, chairman of the undergraduate council, voted "most respected" and "best all-around man," he rarely had time to join his classmates for runs up the Lincoln Highway to Kingston for bootleg beer or proms with girls from Rumson or Dobbs Ferry. After Princeton, he was a Rhodes scholar and a professor at Vanderbilt University's medical school.
Now, still remarkably hale at 91, though his snow-white hair is feather-fine and his skin nearly translucent, with few responsibilities other than helping care for his wife, Ann, who broke her hip in May, Dr. Billings said that keeping track of the class gave his life shape.
"If I didn't have this," he said, "I'd be sort of roaming around looking for things to do." As it is, he cannot refrain from writing to Princeton's football coach after every game.
Dr. Billings compiles his column in his upstairs study at the desk he made from an old wooden hockey-game board. Telephone in hand, he makes his way through the latest, skinniest class directory, taking notes in doctor's scrawl as he goes.
Occasionally, classmates are less than thrilled to hear from him. This is one from Oct. 8, 2003: A note from the lady who receives Cob Martin's mail: "Mr. Martin asked me to write you that he is living in Richmond, age 91, with his third wife. That is the extent of the information that he wishes to pass on."
More often, Dr. Billings says, they are more or less delighted to talk to him. Curly Marsh, speaking from his home in Florida, agreed.
"Josh doesn't badger you for news," Mr. Marsh said. "Well, I guess he does. But the class is very warmhearted. The ones who are still living, for the most part, are people who have done their share for years and welcome his calls."
Dr. Billings writes up his findings on his word processor and then revises, with help from his literary mentors.
"Do you know the magazine called The American Scholar?" he asked. "Well, a long time ago I saw an article in there, 'How Kipling Taught Me to Write.' The thing that impressed me was, never use a string of adjectives. If you pick the right adjective out you don't need five or six. And the next thing is, short sentences. It is not a bit impressive to say 'He was sick and he didn't feel well,' or 'He was sick and his wife was doing such and such.' Say, "He was sick. His wife did such and such.' "
Milton, too, "is a very tough influence on me," Dr. Billings said. " 'Paradise Lost' is probably about as fine a writing as there is. It's biblical. It's sort of like the King James version. Simple but powerful."
Dr. Billings also tries to keep the column as positive as he can without lapsing into euphemism or denial. "I don't ever use the word Alzheimer, really," he said. "I'll say, 'He's pretty forgetful.' I don't like to bang at things."
Sometimes his call will find another Tiger fallen, and Dr. Billings will put a pink highlighter dot beside the man's listing in the class directory. "That kills him," he explained.
This has meant a gradual softening of his trademark sign-off, which started out as "a great, strong class" and mysteriously lost its comma about a year later.
"My sister reads those class notes, and she's very critical," he said. "She said: 'Your class isn't very strong anymore. Why are you putting that "great strong class" still in there?' I said, 'Well, I'm modifying that a little bit.' "
In recent months, he has tried "a great strong class of survivors," "a great strong class -- dwindling" and, somewhat defensively, "a great strong class -- very viable!" His current column concludes with:
We have lost Buzz Sloan, Chic Doak and Henry McIntyre.
A great, strong small class.
Sixteen times a year (the Alumni Weekly is an oddly misnamed publication) Dr. Billings's column appears in print and online, where it can be read, alongside the doings of other, sprier classes, by alumni and others at Princeton.
Not all of Dr. Billings's work for the weekly has been deemed fit to print, though. For decades he had a running dispute with his senior-year roommate, Bob Keidel, about the right way clip a toenail.
"I have always cut mine straight across," Dr. Billings said. "He cuts his round. And that's wrong. They get ingrown. We argued about that fairly often. I put that in the class notes once and the editor thought, 'Ah, well . . . ' I gave them a little trouble for taking it out."
Mr. Keidel, a real estate man, died in May. But sometime in his waning years he saw the light. "Keidel decided that his toenails were important," Dr. Billings said. "It takes a while to get to the point where you can finally decide, 'It's O.K., I'm not losing face by giving up.' " 
Dr. Billings did not gloat. "Just quietly he said to me one day: 'Josh, I finally decided that you're right. I had trouble with a toenail.' And we just quietly laid that argument down and went on our way."

GRAPHIC: Photos: F. Tremaine Billings, 91, is gentle, but unflinching, in his class notes. (Photo by Christopher Berkey for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Dr. Billings, who lives in Nashville, says that when writing about his classmates, he tries to follow his mentors, Kipling and Milton. He goes easy on the adjectives and keeps his sentences short and simple. (Photo by Christopher Berkey for The New York Times); The 1933 Princeton yearbook entry for Dr. Billings. He was captain of the football team and voted "best all-around man." (pg. 56) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISION IMPAIRMENTS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); DIALYSIS (72%); DIABETES (72%); BONE FRACTURES (68%); GOLF (66%); CHRISTMAS (60%) Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO LTD (67%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (95%) Princeton University

TICKER: PICL (NEP) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524298 ALL OTHER INSURANCE RELATED ACTIVITIES (67%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (67%)

PERSON: Andy Newman; F Tremaine (Dr) Billings

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



536 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1711 words

HEADLINE: Honeymoon? What Honeymoon? 

BYLINE:  By JULIA C. MEAD

 BODY:
BEFORE he has even taken office, before his honeymoon as county executive has even begun, Steve Levy and his plan to overhaul Suffolk County's government are running into opposition. Leaders of the County Legislature's incoming Republican majority say they want a collegial relationship with the county executive-elect but are preparing moves to consolidate their own power and, Democrats say, thwart Mr. Levy's ambitious plans.
 A key item on the agenda of the Republican delegation that will take control of the Legislature next month is a parliamentary maneuver: the creation of a rules committee to scrutinize proposed legislation and decide when it reaches a vote by the full Legislature. Joseph Caracappa, the Selden Republican chosen by the Legislature's majority conference as its next presiding officer, said a rules committee was necessary to weed out headline-grabbing or sloppily drafted bills and said the Legislature had acted hastily in the past, wasting time and money to revise legislation that could have been better written the first time around. 
 But legislative Democrats regard the committee as a way to bottle up the flood of proposals they expect to come from the office of the new county executive. 
Mr. Caracappa also said he was committed to appointing a Republican to carry the Legislature's own agenda to Albany and Washington. Lobbying on behalf of a county is traditionally the role of the county executive. A Republican lobbyist could "strengthen the county's position" and give the Legislature "an equal voice," Mr. Caracappa said.
Though the rules committee could block some of his proposals and a separate lobbying effort could create a distraction from his own agenda, Mr. Levy he said he and his transition team have nonetheless been moving at top speed since the day after Election Day.
"I've had to hit the ground running," he said.
During his 18 years in elected office, Mr. Levy, 43, has developed a reputation for tenacity and a willingness to cross party lines in pursuit of his goals, and is also known as a policy maven with a hands-on approach and a true believer's zeal for government reform. He said his election as Suffolk's first Democratic county executive in 12 years demonstrated that the voters wanted change, and he warned that any county official who resists will soon learn just how powerful the executive can be.
"You have to break eggs to make an omelet," he said, "but I'll be respectful of other officials, with the caveat that the purse strings are controlled by the county."
Mr. Levy's problems may not only be with Republicans. Mr. Levy said he had asked Democratic legislators to stall a bill that would end county audits of forfeiture funds, saying he wanted the chance to seek a more detailed accounting of how the district attorney's office spends them. The district attorney, Thomas Spota, a Democrat, has publicly supported a halt to the audits, but said that if it was determined the staff time and cost of the audits could be put to better use, he would concur. "In the final analysis of course it's the legislature and the county executive's decision," he said.
Mr. Levy said that his transition team has been interviewing appointed department heads to identify the most pressing matters and that he's pulling together an executive team and other high-level appointees.
Last week, he announced that Michael Deering, Assemblyman Thomas DiNapoli's chief of staff and an author of the pine barrens preservation and brownfields remediation laws, would be his environmental czar. Richard Dormer, a former chief of patrol, will replace John Gallagher as police commissioner. John Desmond will be promoted to lead the Probation Department. Jeff Szabo, his current chief of staff, will become one of three deputy county executives. 
But with only two weeks to go until his Jan. 2 inauguration, Mr. Levy had not named the other two deputy county executives, a budget director, a county attorney or the commissioners of economic development and health.
Mr. Levy said that other high-ranking officials appointed by the current county executive, Robert Gaffney, such as the social services commissioner and director of real property services, will serve out their terms, and that nearly all of the top slots in his administration would be filled by Jan. 2. 
Mr. Levy will inherit a 2004budget that appears to be balanced and an economy that appears to be improving. Beyond that, the situation is cloudy.
"I'm hoping for a cooperative honeymoon so I can implement the reforms necessary to cushion the county against the monstrous deficit expected in 2005," Mr. Levy said in an interview in his cluttered Sayville assembly office. "I'm starting out by assuming the Republicans also want what is best for the taxpayers, so I'm giving them the benefit of the doubt."
He called Mr. Caracappa "a decent guy."
"We've had a fine working relationship over the years," said Mr. Levy, who was a county legislator for 15 years. "He's got the right goals at heart."
Interviewed by phone, Mr. Caracappa said he too hoped to work with Mr. Levy to address a 2005 deficit estimated at $200 million. He also indicated a willingness to tackle the county's shortage of lower-income housing, a stalled open-space preservation program and what is shaping up to become the largest infrastructure upgrade in the county's history: a proposed expansion of the county jail, renovations to county office buildings in Riverhead and Hauppauge, the expansion of the county-owned building in Riverhead that houses State Supreme Court, and more.
"We have many common goals," Mr. Caracappa said. But he confirmed that there is strong backing among Republican legislators for a new rules committee. Using one of Mr. Levy's buzzwords, he said the committee would "bring more professionalism to the process."
"It will be a fair committee," Mr. Caracappa said. "I want fairness and equity for all my colleagues, including Democrats."
Democrats, pointing to similar rules committees known to bottleneck bills in the state and federal legislatures, called the rules committee a bid to tie up Democratic initiatives. Several top Suffolk Democrats asserted that the expected rules committee chairman, Allan E. Binder, is one of the Republicans' most ardent partisans.
"We know, and by his own admission, he is the most partisan of them all," David A. Bishop of West Babylon, the minority leader, said of Mr. Binder. "So it's not a good sign they're thinking of making him the chair. But how bad the bottleneck becomes depends on who else is on the committee."
Mr. Levy said: "I think it's troubling regardless of who the chairman will be. It's threatening democracy and would allow a filibuster of one on every piece of legislation. Every one of my needed reforms could be bottled up."
Mr. Binder, of Huntington, said a majority caucus, especially in a unicameral house such as the County Legislature, ought to act like a majority.
"We should be a unified group and drive the process, but that hasn't happened in a lot of years," Mr. Binder said. "Minority members who want to have more power than the voters gave them of course love coalition government." He was alluding to the cross-party coalitions that have controlled the Legislature for the last seven years. The current presiding officer, Maxine Postal, is a Democrat.
Mr. Binder said a unified majority would counterbalance the county executive and the minority caucus, providing "a vocal opposition when appropriate." And a rules committee, if empanelled, could "provide more opportunities to stop and reflect when necessary, more control over the timing of legislation," and more public debate.
"Coalition government just means backroom politics," he said.
Mr. Bishop predicted that the Republican unity wouldn't last. "They'll try to do everything as a caucus," he said, "but it's impossible to maintain unity based on opposition to reform because the public demands it and all these individual legislators will have to deliver. "To do that, they'll have to get beyond the politics of 'No'."
"And Caracappa personifies that conflict," Mr. Bishop added. "He clearly wants to be constructive but he also has to satisfy the circle-the-wagons mentality of some of his members."
Mr. Caracappa predicted that the dual lobbying efforts would be "almost guaranteed to ask for the same things" from federal and state lawmakers, but Mr. Levy said Suffolk's standing could be gravely weakened if they don't.
"I would welcome any help the Legislature can provide in advancing the county's agenda," Mr. Levy said, adding pointedly, "which is usually prepared by the county executive."
He said he was forming a lobbying partnership with Thomas R. Suozzi and Andrew J. Spano, his Nassau and Westchester counterparts, to push for additional state aid to plug the holes in the 2005 budget that are expected to come from increased contributions to the public employees pension fund and Medicaid.
"If the county executives are pushing for Medicaid reform and the Legislature is asking for something else, that could create a distraction and have a deleterious effect," Mr. Levy said. "But I'm glad Joe Caracappa is taking an interest in the need for state and federal assistance for 2005."
Mr. Levy has already lost one skirmish. He tried to delay an arbitration award for the county police force, saying he wanted a chance after he took office to argue for givebacks. Instead, the officers won a nearly 16-percent raise over the next four years. But Mr. Levy said last week he would reduce the police budget in other ways. He said he plans to lobby Albany for state troopers to patrol the expressway, a state-owned road, as a way to cut $10 million from the county police budget. He is also considering changing shift schedules and civilianizing more jobs.
Mr. Levy said his intention is to improve morale throughout the county's 11,000-member work force. "When they see we are promoting based on merit, making the department more efficient, and professionalizing it, well, that's the best morale booster you can have," he said.
On the other hand, he added, "the party's over for county workers in any department who have no-show jobs, take travel junkets, operate under a lack of scrutiny, and drive county-owned cars home for no reason."

GRAPHIC: Photos: STEVE LEVY, the Suffolk executive-elect. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Joseph Caracappa, next presiding officer of the Suffolk Legislature. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (94%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ASSET FORFEITURE (70%) Law and Legislation; Politics and Government

PERSON: Steve (County Exec) Levy; Julia C Mead

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%) Suffolk County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



537 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/2004 Mazda RX-8; 
A Sports Car With Family Values

BYLINE:  By JEFF SABATINI

 BODY:
TONY was the captain of my high school water polo team. Athletic. Popular. And if that wasn't enough to fuel the fires of jealousy, Tony drove a silver second-generation Mazda RX-7 that was the envy of all us red-blooded teenagers with sports car lust in our hearts.
 Fifteen years later, most guys like Tony aren't driving sports cars. Instead of stepping up out of something low and sleek, they are hopping down from the running boards of big S.U.V.'s or extended-cab pickups. 
 Mazda is begging the Tonys of the world to come back to the fold. Recognizing the practical appeal of the utility vehicles that are now often the choice of the cool and uncool alike, the company has added a degree of practicality to the successor to the RX-7, which Mazda pulled from the American market nine years ago. The new RX-8 is a sports car with not two doors, but four, and an equivalent number of seats. 
Yes, sedans have been promoted as "four-door sports cars" before, and Saturn has tried to convince us that we should be impressed by the diminutive rear doors on its coupes. But the RX-8 actually delivers the goods: four doors plus styling, handling and performance befitting a sports car.
The RX-8 certainly screams "sports car" -- and loudly at that. Its protruding front fenders initially call to mind the Ferrari Enzo supercar, but the more you stare at the front of the RX-8, the more those pontoonlike fenders look as if they belong on a vintage pickup. 
The styling is indeed the weakest part of the package, and part of the blame falls on those rear-hinged doors. There is no way to make their seams work in concert with the rest of the car's manic lines. These swoop rearward over the hood, dart up to a crease along the trunk, and bulge over the wheels, all with the reckless styling abandon common in this era of computer-aided design. The rear end, cluttered with Mazda's oversize badges, is especially busy.
As expected from Mazda, handling is where the rear-drive RX-8 excels. A superbly tuned suspension -- double-wishbone configuration in the front and multi-link in the rear -- makes enjoyable sport out of twists and turns, allowing little of the leaning movement known as body roll. Even more impressive is how well the car soaks up bumps and poor pavement. 
The ride is always firm but rarely harsh, and the driver benefits from great road feel and response through the electrically assisted power steering. With perfect 50-50 weight distribution, the car has excellent balance and a nimble feel.
The engine is a 2-rotor, 1.3-liter rotary, or Wankel, so-named after its inventor, Felix Wankel. This design allows for a compact and lightweight engine with prodigious power potential, making it an obvious choice for a sports car. Unlike conventional piston engines, in which the up-and-down motion of pistons turns a crankshaft, rotary engines have triangular rotors that rotate within housings, turning eccentric shafts that run through their centers. 
Rotaries have been Mazda's unique calling card since the 1960's, so it is no wonder that its new flagship features the latest developments in rotary technology, which offers lower emissions and higher performance, Mazda says.
The new unit makes 238 horsepower (at a lofty 8,500 r.p.m.) but only 159 pounds-feet of torque (at a high 5,500 r.p.m.). That low torque number means the 3,000-pound RX-8 doesn't move off the line as quickly as you might expect, but satisfaction comes a second or two later as the engine soars toward its 9,000-r.p.m. redline. 
For people unaccustomed to urging the tachometer needle that far up the gauge, driving the RX-8 may take some adjustment -- by delaying your shifts, for instance. Though indeed high-strung, the mellow-sounding little rotary never feels short of power; Road & Track magazine recorded a 0-to-60 m.p.h. time of 5.9 seconds, compared with 5.8 for a Nissan 350Z. Nor is it a painful aural experience to rev it full-tilt.
The pain comes at the gas pump. My test car had a federal fuel economy rating of 18 miles per gallon in town and 24 on the highway. As they say, your mileage may vary: I achieved only 18 m.p.g. in combined driving and 14 in a strictly urban setting. 
The six-speed manual transmission has shift throws short enough to ruin the business plan of an aftermarket supplier. A four-speed automatic, with gear-change paddles on the steering wheel, is also offered, but this version comes only with a detuned 197-horsepower version of the engine.
The brakes are grabby four-wheel discs with an antilock feature and electronic force distribution. Dynamic stability control with traction control is an option, bundled to cost you at least $1,200. Ditto the moonroof; the least expensive package that will get you one is $2,800. 
My $31,200 test car included the $4,000 grand touring package, the only way to get a leather interior. A navigation system is also offered, for $2,000. Clearly, Mazda arrived at the reasonable base price -- $27,200 for the six-speed model -- by being stingy with the standard equipment.
Would you like a spare tire? The scrooges at Mazda give you only a can of flat-tire sealant goo unless you pay an extra $395 for the fifth wheel and additional rubber. 
Mazda explains that the spare was left out because it takes up much of the trunk. But the company's Miata roadster, an even smaller car, has always had a standard trunk-mounted spare that owners could choose to leave in the garage to increase luggage capacity. 
Inside the RX-8's cozy cockpit, the driver is greeted by a low instrument panel fitted with nicely illuminated gauges, including a large center tachometer with integrated digital speedometer. Visibility to the front and side is excellent, and an over-the-shoulder glance finds the right rear door's small window perfect for checking blind spots before darting into the adjoining lane. 
As a whole, the interior is rather plain and functional, well assembled from plastic materials of average quality -- though those who judge sports cars based on interior trim are probably not driving enough. One oddity is the parking brake, shaped like a right triangle and resembling a heavy-duty stapler. Even when it's down, it looks as if it's still up. 
The center console runs from the dashboard clear back to the cover of the small pass-through to the trunk. Despite this intrusion on the occupants' personal space, the rear buckets do not feel as cramped as they do in many coupes with vestigial back seats. The second row is fairly comfortable for adults, provided they are not tall. Mazda includes rear safety-seat anchors so you can teach your children heel-and-toe downshifts from an early age.
While you wouldn't necessarily want to travel cross-country in the back of an RX-8, it could be done, and the rear doors would make it a lot easier to get out and stretch. It is possible to slide into the rear seats without forcing the front seat occupants to get out first, or to tilt their seats forward, provided no one involved is of large build. Alas, regardless of where they might plan to sit, the big and tall might do well tojust pass on the RX-8, as even Mazda calls the interior "comfortably snug."
Which brings us back to Tony and the inevitable question: Is this four-door design the right selling point to put guys like him back in a sports car, or is it just a gimmick?
I would say it is neither. The back seat is a nice feature, though its practicality might have been enhanced if the car were designed to be a hatchback. Regardless, Mazda did an excellent job of packaging, even including a reasonably large trunk. 
But while extra doors, seats and trunk space may make the RX-8 easier to live with, they don't necessarily make it cool. After all, practicality is not what sells sports cars -- or even, often, trucks.
The RX-8 works because it drives better than competitors like the 350Z and the Audi TT. In the RX-8, Mazda has created a wonderful sports car and a worthy successor to the RX-7. If this doesn't cause the Tonys to take notice, nothing will. 

INSIDE TRACK: A sports car good enough to make you forget the back seat.

GRAPHIC: Photos: With center-opening doors and four seats, the RX-8 is a sports car with a work ethic. (pg. 1); With half its weight at each end, the RX-8 feels balanced and nimble. (pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); SPORTS CARS (92%); WATER SPORTS (78%); WATER POLO (78%); SEDANS (77%); PICKUP TRUCKS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN (50%) Automobiles

ORGANIZATION: Mazda Motor Corp

PERSON: Jeff Sabatini

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



538 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Governments Groan Under Pension Costs 

BYLINE:  By STEWART AIN

 BODY:
WHEN the Suozzi administration took office in January 2002, it tackled Nassau County's budget crisis by reducing the county workforce by 1,100, enacting efficiencies that saved $100 million and negotiating labor contracts that it said held the line on costs. But almost two years of budget-tightening could be undone by huge increases in state-mandated pension and Medicaid costs. In 2002, the county paid $13.6 million into the state pension system. In 2003, that figure rose to $55.3 million, and in 2004 it is projected to rise to $87.8 million.
 "Within two years, there will have been an increase of 546 percent," said Arthur A. Gianelli, the deputy county executive for budget and finance. "So in the midst of trying to recover the county's finances, we'll have to add $74 million to the budget to pay for employee pensions. We had structured the budget conservatively to account for unforeseen circumstances, but the pension increase absorbed nearly all of the funds that would have been available for contingency purposes." 
 The county's Medicaid bill is also rising. In 2000, it was $178 million. It rose to $206 million in 2001 and $234 million the following year. It is projected to cost $240.8 million in 2003 and $260 million next year. 
"Expenses are going through the roof," said Thomas R. Suozzi, the county executive. "And our health insurance is going up by $20 million next year. People say cut expenses. I have. But I have no control over pensions and Medicaid costs."
Nassau County is not alone. Soaring pension costs are a challenge for municipalities throughout Long Island and the rest of the state, and the Medicaid increase is facing Suffolk and other counties. Some municipalities have been able to budget for these soaring expenses, others have been forced to borrow, and still others are considering tax increases. 
Alan G. Hevesi, the state comptroller, said the average employer contribution into the statewide public employees' pension fund, which currently covers 964,000 state, county, town and village employees outside New York City, was about 18 percent of payroll for non-uniformed employees during the 1970's and '80s. The contribution for police and firemen was about 29 or 30 percent, he said, because the contracts for uniformed employees exempt them from contributing to the fund.
But he said that during the economic boom of the 1990's, the pension fund's investments yielded such high returns that governments were able to cut their pension contributions to 2 percent or 1 percent of payroll. Some even contributed nothing.
"It was a huge financial gift," Mr. Hevesi said. "But the stock market soured in 2001 and 2002." He said there is a two- to three-year lag in the stock market's effect on pension fund contributions. To help municipalities deal with increasing pension costs, the State Legislature this year approved changes that Mr. Hevesi said will save $1.6 billion through the 2004 fiscal year.
Under the pension reform law, local governments were assessed only 4.5 percent of their payroll this year instead of the 11 percent that would have been required for full funding. Although the 11 percent rate will be in effect when the 2004 payment is due next December, the law allows municipalities to pay only 7 percent and to borrow the rest for five years. And in the future, local governments will be informed of their rates a year before the money is due to permit them to budget for it. Contributions, however, will never drop below 4.5 percent to help stabilize the pension fund.
Local governments have complained, however, that although the pension reform law helps them in the short term, it does nothing to help them in the future.
Robert C. Bortzfield, Suffolk's budget director, said the county's pension costs rose from $16.4 million in 2002 to $51 million this year and an estimated $131 million next year. And Medicaid costs rose from $169.2 million in 2000 to an estimated $236.4 million this year, $283.8 million next year and $332 million in 2005.
"It just grows in leaps and bounds and is something we have absolutely no control over," he said. And the new law, he said, "did not lessen the impact, it only pushed it back." 
There were some years during the 1990's when the county paid nothing into the employee retirement system and used the savings to reduce property taxes, Mr. Bortzfield said, adding, "Now we are going to get whacked." 
Suffolk budgeted for this year's $51 million in pension costs, but Mr. Bortzfield said the county has taken steps to pay only 7 percent of next year's $131 million pension bill and to borrow the remainder. But in 2005, the entire $131 million will be due, plus payments on the loan.
"The county will be hard pressed to cover these costs without some kind of an increase" in taxes, he said. "The 2005 budget will be hit big time. We'relooking at having to address about a $200 million budget gap."
Similar gloom pervades town halls across the Island. The pension bills for Babylon Town are a "big shock to our system," said Douglas F. Jacob, the town's director of finance. He said the bill rose from $689,070 to $1.04 million this year, an estimated $2.5 million next year and $3.2 million in 2005.
"From 2000 to 2004, the Town of Babylon has seen a 300 percent increase," Mr. Jacob said. "That is staggering."
To pay for this year's pension contribution, he said the town withdrew about $500,000 from its $7.5 million in reserves. And to avoid raising taxes next year, Mr. Jacob said the town plans to withdraw another $900,000 from the reserve fund and borrow to the limit allowed by the new law.
Mr. Jacob said he favors the new law's requirement that municipalities pay a minimum of 4.5 percent of payroll in the future. "It's a smart thing to do," he said. "It's hard to manage multimillion-dollar swings. This is better for our planning and for our taxpayers."
But John A. Mastromarino, the comptroller of Hempstead Town, questioned that move.
"We are playing catch-up, but if the market turns around, why must there still be a contribution of 4.5 percent?" he asked. "When there is a normal reserve and an excess reserve, there is a temptation to use that reserve to increase the benefits to all retirees, which is what the previous comptroller did. We are now living with those enhanced benefits."
In fact, although former Comptroller H. Carl McCall advocated changes in the pension system, it was the State Legislature that improved pension benefits, including providing a cost-of-living adjustment. Governor Pataki signed the changes into law. Hempstead Town paid $567,222 into the pension fund in 2001 after paying nothing the previous two years. The contribution rose to $1.07 million in 2002 and $5.4 million this year. It is estimated to jump to $16.5 million next year. The town budgeted for $10 million next year and intends to borrow to cover the rest, Mr. Mastromarino said.
William F. Glacken, the mayor of Freeport, called next year's required contribution "draconian," saying it would actually cost his village 17 percent for police employees and nearly 12 percent for all others.
"If implemented," he wrote in a Dec. 8 letter to Mr. Hevesi, "they would have a devastating impact on every municipality and school district in the state, and, incidentally, on the state itself."
Mr. Glacken said it was his understanding that as of the end of this year the retirement system would be fully funded at $114 billion. And he questioned why contribution levels could not be held to 7 percent for the police employees and 4.5 percent for all others.

GRAPHIC: Chart tracks pension costs for counties in Long Island, from 2001, projected through 2004. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (92%); BUDGETS (92%); MEDICAID (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicaid; Pensions and Retirement Plans

PERSON: Stewart Ain

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Suffolk County (NY); Nassau County (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



539 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2673 words

HEADLINE: A Road Paved With Good Intentions 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SULLIVAN

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
WHEN they received their invitations to have breakfast with Governor McGreevey last October, Laura Lynch and other environmentalists thought it was going to be a great meeting: they would sit down with the governor at his mansion in Princeton, hash out some issues and listen to a pep talk from the man they had helped to elect.
 But that is not how the gathering unfolded. 
 One minute, everyone was sitting around the long dining room table at Drumthwacket, the governor's mansion, politely spooning their scrambled eggs and drinking coffee. The next, the governor's aides were chatting about the benefits of building a major east-west highway in central New Jersey. The muted clink of silverware on fine china was replaced with the sound of 40 jaws dropping. 
"We were all going, 'What the heck does this mean,"' said Ms. Lynch, a biologist who serves as conservation chairwoman for the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club.
What it means is that the state may finally fill a major gap in its highway system. While that may be good news for drivers who now spend an inordinate amount of time stopping, starting and muttering on the Turnpike or Route One, and for businesses that need to entice customers and make it easier for employees to come and go, it is bad news for environmentalists and small towns situated in the path of the proposed highway.
The governor was talking about Route 92 -- one of the most delayed highway projects in state history -- which has been argued over for more than 20 years. Shifted, altered, lengthened and shortened, the proposal has been rejected once by the Environmental Protection Agency and shelved by three governors. Originally designed to link the northwestern part of the state with the Jersey Shore, the road has been scaled back to its current incarnation as a 6.5-mile connection between Route 1 and the New Jersey Turnpike. 
Once purely a state highway, the project has been shifted to the jurisdiction of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority. If the authority receives state approval, it will build the road as a spur of the Turnpike. The estimated cost of the project is about $400 million, money that Turnpike officials say is already set aside.
So far, the governor has not committed himself to the project, and senior aides say the idea is only being explored at this point.
Bradley M. Campbell, the commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection, says traffic has become so bad in central New Jersey that it presents an environmental hazard all its own and that doing nothing is not an acceptable solution.
"There is a consensus that the transportation challengesdo need to be addressed," Mr. Campbell said. As to whether Route 92 was the answer, he said, "I certainly think there are versions of the project that might make sense from the smart-growth, congestion-easing perspective."
Yet for many environmentalists, even the 6.5-mile version -- scaled back from more than 25 miles -- is troubling: a wide swath of blacktop across pristine woods and farmland that would inflict thousands of cars a day on such small towns as Kingston and South Brunswick. 
"This is a bad road," said David Pringle, campaign director of the New Jersey Environmental Federation. "A bad, bad road."
In fact, until they met with the governor, many environmental groups assumed that the road was dead. After all, the final decision rests with Governor McGreevey, a man who has vowed to protect the environment and control suburban sprawl. When the governor raised the possibility that Route 92 might be revived, Ms. Lynch said, it was hard to believe.
"Stunned silence is probably the best way to put it," Ms. Lynch said. "Stunned silence."

'You Are Trapped'
While the governor's guests were sitting down to breakfast, Phillip Benjamin, 45, of Westchester County, N.Y., a controller for the Patrinely Group, was probably crawling through the last few miles of his commute amid the tract houses and condominium developments of Plainsboro. 
Like most commutes, Mr. Benjamin's trek to his office on Scudders Mill Road has settled into a routine -- with one particular spot that he has come to dread. For Mr. Benjamin, it is a long, sweeping turn where Dey Road curves through farmland and straightens toward Scudders Mill Road. He has learned to watch for the glaring tail lights that mean, once again, traffic has congealed into a mile-long parking lot. 
"You are trapped," said Mr. Benjamin, who has been doing this for almost four years. "There is no place to go."
Like thousands of fellow commuters Mr. Benjamin faces the impossibility of navigating roads originally designed to serve small towns and farms. It is a problem common in many parts of the state, but particularly in central New Jersey, which has seen thousands of acres of farmland sprout houses, strip malls and office complexes over the last two decades.
"It is an intractable problem," said Jeffrey M. Zupan, a senior fellow with Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit organization based in Manhattan. "Rapidly growing, low-density suburbs where, with the exception of rail lines into the city, mass transit has not been able to function very well."
The area where Route 92 is planned is one of the fastest-growing sections of the state, according to Tim Evans, research director for the planning group New Jersey Future. For example, Mr. Evans said, the population of Plainsboro grew 43 percent in the 1990's, and South Brunswick grew 47 percent. In terms of jobs, the numbers are even more startling. Three towns -- Cranbury, South Brunswick and West Windsor -- were among the top 10 municipalities in job growth statewide from 1990 to 1999, with Cranbury growing by 91 percent and West Windsor, 63 percent. In Plainsboro, where 20,215 residents live today, the population was only 5,605 in 1980. 
Like many fast-growing regions, central New Jersey is stuck in a cycle of sprawl, Mr. Zupan said. People looking for more space and cheaper housing push developers to turn farms into subdivisions. More homeowners means bigger schools, more police, more road repairs. To pay for it all, mayors try to lure commercial development like offices and malls. The high-tax, low-service commercial properties are great for the town budget, but they produce heavy traffic as workers come and go.
"You get a lot of single-family office buildings," Mr. Zupan joked.
Adding to the problem is the fact that the state never really planned for all this development. There are several major highways that slice through the area from north to south -- the Turnpike, Route 1 and Route 206 -- but no good way to move between them.
"The infrastructure in the area is inadequate," said Martin E. Robins, director of Rutgers University's Voorhees Transportation Policy Institute. "Residential people are trying to get out of the area every morning and people from the office parks are trying to get in."
Specifically, state planners estimate that each weekday about 20,000 cars and 2,100 trucks squeeze onto the two-lane local roads that connect Route 1 and the New Jersey Turnpike in southern Middlesex County, clogging intersections and turning every commute into test of wills.
The mayor of Plainsboro, Peter Cantu, said there is not much towns can do to solve the problem, since widening streets would make little difference.
"Sixty percent of the traffic that comes through Plainsboro has neither a destination nor an origin in Plainsboro," Mayor Cantu said. "Changing the local roadways is not a feasible solution."
Mr. Cantu, who has been mayor of Plainsboro for 23 years, has spent much of that time arguing that the state needs to build a highway to connect the major roads that run through Middlesex County.
"This is a regional problem, not just a problem for Plainsboro," he said.
Business owners in the area also contend that the problem is an economic one. For one thing, employees who have to fight traffic on the way tend to arrive at work frazzled. Truckers find it increasingly difficult to make deliveries on time. 
David H. Knights, director of marketing for Princeton University's Forrestal Center Associates, said companies ranging from Dow Jones to Bristol Myers and Merrill Lynch have to rely on local roads to move their workforce.
"There is a shortage of east-west movement in this entire section of New Jersey," Mr. Knights said. "The infrastructure just has not kept pace."
The Forrestal center, situated on Route 1 just east of Princeton, is one of the largest commercial developments in the area, with dozens of companies that together employ about 12,000 workers. And Mr. Knights said his company planned to expand the complex, meaning more people on the roads.
Without a new highway, he said, those commuters would face even worse traffic that stymies people like Mr. Benjamin.
"There is no good way to go east to west," Mr. Benjamin said. "It is frustrating."

Offices Amid Farmland
About half a mile north of Plainsboro, Mayor Frank T. Gambatese of South Brunswick walked down a road that could have run through a national forest. Birds twittered in trees that dotted the marshy bottom land; a sign nailed to one trunk warned that hunting was only allowed with permission from the Buck Master Bow and Gun Club.
It is an odd feature of central New Jersey -- modern office buildings and roads often close by pockets of woods and farmland that look much like they did 75 years ago. Pausing by a shuttered barn, Mayor Gambatese gestured across a field covered with the stumps of this year's corn crop.
"We pump four million gallons of water each day from the aquifer under this land," he said. "It's a sandy soil. The water zips right down into the aquifer."
He pointed to a tree line across the field. "That's where the highway will go," he said.
Mayor Cantu's problem could soon become Mayor Gambatese's headache. The current plan for Route 92 would send the highway across the fields of South Brunswick. It would slice through farmland that the town and the state recently paid $2.5 million to preserve as open space, skirt the edge of a town park and run over the top of the aquifer. It would also send highway traffic zooming by a quiet neighborhood in South Brunswick and dump the cars into the narrow streets of the village of Kingston.
Mayor Gambatese is unhappy. He thinks South Brunswick and neighboring towns are inheriting traffic problems that they did not create, and that the state is ignoring the concerns of small towns in an effort to solve a regional transportation problem.
"Almost all the towns around us have gone on record opposing this road," he said. "These are the towns that are going to get the brunt of this traffic."
To make matters worse, South Brunswick just spent $20 million to upgrade Route 522, a four-lane county road that connects with Route 1 and runs about a half-mile north of Exit 8A on the Turnpike. Mr. Gambatese has urged that the state do more to encourage drivers to use that road, though state engineers say it is too far north to be of much use to commuters.
Yet Mr. Gambatese, a Democrat, also tempers his anger, saying that he understands the pressures Governor McGreevey is facing: business owners and drivers demand better roads and unions want the construction jobs. But he questioned the need to spend $400 million on a highway that local residents do not want when there seems to be so many other roads that are crumbling.
"All we hear about is the state is not in a good financial position," he said. "Sometimes we have to look at these things and say this is not a good use of our money."
South Brunswick residents -- tossing political considerations aside -- are less charitable. They say the state is betraying them by proposing to build a highway that would benefit office park developers along Route 1. Particularly galling to them is the fact that South Brunswick will reap little of the tax benefits from new development, but will bear most of the burden from new traffic.
"It is environmentally damaging and a colossal waste of the state's money," said Steve Masticola, a computer scientist who lives in Kingston. "It is being driven by communities that want other people to be a bypass for them."

A Question of Tradeoffs
Mr. Campbell, an ardent environmentalist, finds himself in an uncomfortable position. As commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection, he will have to make a crucial decision on whether to move forward with the project, which will almost certainly cause some degree of damage to the area.
"It presents a tough set of environmental and smart-growth tradeoffs," he said.
In an interview last week, Mr. Campbell said the state had not decided whether to move ahead, though it was clear he felt something had to be done to alleviate the traffic problem in Middlesex County.
"There are benefits in terms of reduced congestion, reduced emissions associated with congestion, and convenience to motorists," he said. "That will have to be balanced against some wetlands impacts, and a close scrutiny of how it will effect development."
Other regulators are divided on the road's potential effect. The federal Environmental Protection Agency turned down an earlier version of the highway, citing potential damage to the wetlands that lie over South Brunswick's aquifer. But the Army Corps of Engineers, which has recently completed an assessment of the project for the Turnpike Authority, recommended that the state go ahead with construction, Mr. Campbell said. According to data collected by the Corps and made public by Mr. Campbell, Route 92 would decrease traffic on local roads by as much as 40 percent for cars and 70 percent for trucks over the next 25 years.
While the federal environmental agency normally has jurisdiction over such issues, New Jersey is one of two states that manages its own environmental program. According to the Turnpike Authority, which would build the road if it is approved by the governor, state environmental regulators have the final say.
For his part, Mr. Campbell said he was concerned about development that inevitably follow the building any new road, though he said the state could take steps to limit subsequent construction near Route 92.
"It will depend on how the road is designed, particularly the number of interchanges," he said. "If it is truly a limited access road, I think you could accomplish the benefits in terms of congestion and reduced emissions without inducing secondary development."
Not surprisingly, environmentalists in the state disagree with the assessment of the Army Corps. Jeff Tittel, director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club, said the data overestimates the benefits. And, Mr. Tittel, with Route 1 nearly impassible now, additional cars diverted from the Turnpike, would make the situation worse.
"It is a joke," Mr. Tittel said. "They are trying to develop enough political cover to present it as a smart-growth road."
The idea is also drawing fire from transportation and planning groups. Governor McGreevey recently rejected a proposed increase in the state gasoline tax, which means that the state will probably be short of funds for highway repairs for the next several years. In light of that, said Barbara Lawrence, director of the planning group New Jersey Future, the state should not be spending money for a new highway.
"The rest of the transportation system is falling apart," Ms. Lawrence said. "I can't imagine how this could be justified."
But Mr. Campbell said most of the money had been set aside by the Turnpike Authority, which for years has dedicated a fraction of its toll revenue for the project. 
In any event event, he said, the project still had to undergo an extensive public review, including hearings, before a final decision was made. "This is an example of tough tradeoffs," he said. "Benefits of the project need to be weighed against the environmental and community impacts."
For theirt part, environmental groups say they will be at every hearing.
"This road is a symbol," said Mr. Tittel. "It is a test for the McGreevey administration and its commitment to fighting sprawl."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Miller Road in South Brunswick, above, cuts across property owned by the New Jersey Turnpike Authority. If the authority receives state approval, it will build a major new highway, Route 92, as a spur of the Turnpike. But Mayor Frank Gambatese of South Brunswick says the highway, whose cost has been estimated at $400 million, will slice through farmland and create more headaches than it will alleviate. (Photographs by Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times The New York Times)(pg. 12); "If the state is in such dire straits that we have to raise the gas tax, why are they spending $400 million on this road?" says Cathy Dowgin, left, whose house sits across from the proposed path of Route 92 in South Brunswick. A truck rolls along Route 1, above, where the proposed highway will end. (Photographs by Frank C. Dougherty, above, and Timothy Ivy, below for The New York Times The New York Times)(pg. 1) Map of New Jersey highlights the proposed Route 92.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (75%) Roads and Traffic; Environment

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY TURNPIKE AUTHORITY INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (56%)

PERSON: James E (Gov) Mcgreevey; John Sullivan

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



540 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: In a Pinch, Working Free Can Help Lead to Paid Work 

BYLINE:  By BETSY CUMMINGS

 BODY:
THREE months into a job search, Corey Feldman hit a dead end. After losing her position in June as a case manager at the Vera Institute of Justice in New York, she applied for jobs daily and went on dozens of interviews -- often twice at the same agency -- to no avail.
 So in September, Ms. Feldman, 27, who has six years of experience in youth services, walked into the Correctional Association of New York, a criminal justice advocacy group, and did something she once would have considered unthinkable. She offered to work free. 
 In a job market that shows signs of improvement but has yet to turn fully, many unemployed workers are taking a path similar to Ms. Feldman's, volunteering in their field of expertise instead of working odd jobs. By doing so, they say they intend to maintain their skills, network in their chosen area, and perhaps get a foot in the door with a potential employer.
"As the job market has gotten tighter, people have been trying to think more creatively in terms of networking and skill development about what they can do," said Rena Lewis, a senior vice president with Lee Hecht Harrison, a career management firm.
No one tracks exactly how many job seekers are volunteering in the fields they once were paid to work in. But Lee Hecht Harrison recently reviewed more than 50,000 clients' cases and found that 18 percent were volunteering at organizations, up from 11 percent in 2000.
Dr. Donna Mogan, the owner of Eagle Wing Enterprises, a career coaching firm in Chesapeake, Va., said 75 percent of her clients are now considering volunteering, up from 20 percent a few years ago.
Many job experts and career coaches consider volunteering a smart job search strategy -- but only if job seekers understand how to take advantage of the opportunities such work can present. "This is really an extended interview, where an applicantcan take the time to meet everybody in a company and show them what he can do," said John Challenger, chief executive of the outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas in Chicago.
But volunteers who think that quietly churning out reams of work will be enough to be noticed might be disappointed, Mr. Challenger said. "Job seekers also have to get into the culture of the company and learn what the team's about," he said, including going to lunch with employees and asking for informational interviews with company officials. 
Cora Nucci, 40, was laid off from her job at iparty.com, an event planning and party supply company now based in Dedham, Mass., in December 2000 as the Internet bubble began to deflate. She stayed in New York for a year, living on her severance and some freelance work, but eventually moved to Baltimore to live with her sister.
By January 2003, Ms. Nucci said, her freelance business had started to pick up, but she realized that she needed more of a network to land a permanent job. Ms. Nucci said she decided to volunteer at a Baltimore public radio station, WYPR, and almost immediately realized that she might be able to land a job there. 
"Sitting in on early meetings at the station, I got the sense that there wasn't a lot of understanding about the tech side of Web development," she said. "So when the Web developer sat in on meetings, I was able to communicate with him, and that distinguished me from other personnel and volunteers."
Gradually, Ms. Nucci began to showcase her talent and ideas. Knowledgeable in print and marketing, she suggested that the station revamp its brochures. She also presented a possible job description for herself as a producer and news director for the station's Web site. 
The station president told Ms. Nucci in October that he would like to bring her on full time if his budget increased in 2004. In the meantime, she has been hired as a part-time assistant to create an e-newsletter. 
Volunteering can also help workers who are trying to change careers. In July, Chris Pascuzzo, 28, was let go from his position as a supply chain analyst at AOL Time Warner, as it was then known. He said he decided he was young enough to make a career change into advertising, even if it meant starting from scratch.
A friend found him a temporary job compiling surveys at MDB Communications, an advertising firm in Washington. Upon completion of the project, the firm's senior director offered Mr. Pascuzzo a chance to work at the firm as a volunteer. 
Mr. Pascuzzo has created a newsletter for the firm and streamlined its client database. Agency directors have agreed to set him up with several informational interviews at other Washington advertising agencies if a job does not materialize by December at MDB.
Getting in the door of an organization -- even as a volunteer -- is no guarantee that a job offer will follow. Amber Almida was optimistic about landing a job in human resources after she completed two years of course work at the University of California San Diego in March 2002. 
But she received no offers, so that August, Ms. Almida, 32, called Scripps Health, a health services network in San Diego, and asked if she could volunteer in the human resources department.
For three months as an unpaid volunteer, she rewrote the company's job descriptions as part of its accreditation requirement -- but despite approaching hospital administrators about six possible job openings, she got no offers. "Being within the system I thought I would get a preference, but it wasn't the case," she said.
Still, even job seekers who do not land work where they volunteer can benefit from the experience. Ms. Almida, for one, was able to use her volunteering at Scripps to get a job at Sharp HealthCare, a Scripps competitor in San Diego, where she works as a staffing specialist. 
For her part, Ms. Feldman has managed to parlay her volunteer work at the Correctional Association into additional volunteer opportunities and contacts at places like Friends of the Island Academy, a nonprofit organization that helps young people who have been released from Rikers Island.
Today, Ms. Feldman is optimistic that a job could materialize soon at Friends of the Island. "A woman I work with said she was going to graduate in May and move on," she said. "She's a case manager there, and she has the job I want." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Corey Feldman, 27, left, volunteers at Friends of the Island Academy, which helps young people who have been in jail. She hopes to get a similar paying job soon. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); VOLUNTEERS (76%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (70%); CHRISTMAS (65%); CORPORATE CULTURE (64%) 

COMPANY: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: VERA INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: Betsy Cummings

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (71%); VIRGINIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



541 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Lessons From Africa: War Crimes Without End

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: ACCRA, Ghana 

 BODY:
IT was here, four months ago, that the Liberian war officially came to an end. West African leaders coaxed Charles G. Taylor, the Liberian warlord-turned-president, to accept exile to a jungle palace in Nigeria. Guinea-Bissau, Nigeria and others dispatched their soldiers to keep the warring factions at bay. They shepherded former enemies through a peace deal. It was a remarkable success for African diplomacy.
 But as it turned out, sequestering Mr. Taylor in the Nigerian rainforest hardly put the matter to rest. Instead, the horrors of Liberia's past have pursued the leaders of the region like a vengeful ghost, with calls from inside and outside Liberia for Mr. Taylor to face justice -- calls not unlike those raised after the capture of Saddam Hussein. 
 Just last week, a coalition of West African human-rights groups pressed the Nigerian government to hand over Mr. Taylor to a United Nations-backed tribunal in Sierra Leone, which has already indicted Mr. Taylor for crimes against humanity, alleging that he fomented the civil war there. They argue that it is illegal to offer asylum to an indicted war criminal.
Earlier this month, one private British military firm, Northbridge Services Group, declared that it was ready to fetch him and collect a $2 million bounty that the United States Congress, in a bill authorizing $87.5 billion for emergency spending for Iraq and Afghanistan, passed earlier this year. The Nigerian government angrily responded that it will resist any attempt to capture a man under its protection, but suggested it might hand Mr. Taylor over to Liberia, should its citizens want to put him on trial.
For Liberians, and West African leaders committed to rebuilding Liberia, several options are on the table. Mr. Taylor could face the United Nations-backed tribunal in Sierra Leone. Another independent internationally backed tribunal could be established in Liberia. Liberians themselves could try their former president in their own courts, which have all but collapsed after 14 years of intermittent war? Or the whole idea of retributive justice could be dispensed with altogether, in favor of the sort of truth and reconciliation commission that followed the fall of apartheid South Africa?
For their part, many West African officials already regard the United Nations-backed war crimes tribunal in Sierra Leone as a moral luxury that has done little to help that crumbling country. Redress for past wrongs, they say, must come from inside the country that suffered them, and in a way that does not plunge a society just emerging from war back into the maelstrom. 
The Liberian peace accord urged the transitional government to consider granting blanket immunity to the country's warring parties. Amnesty International called that idea "an outrage for civilians who endured such cruelty," but given that Mr. Taylor's supporters have not yet disarmed, one must ask whether amnesty is a greater outrage than the possibility of renewed violence.
Mohamed Ibn Chambas, executive secretary of the Economic Community of West African States, or Ecowas, rejected the notion of an internationally backed war crimes tribunal for Liberia. "If it's externally induced, the system may not be able to withstand the consequences," Mr. Chambas explained in an interview here, as Ecowas gathered for its year-end meeting. "Our states are fragile. Community bonds, loyalty to individuals are still strong. If one rushes with certain high principles, it certainly won't lead to stability."
Mr. Chambas noted that Nigeria did the world a service by taking in Mr. Taylor. "The honor of Nigeria is also on the line," he said. "Nigeria was drawn upon by the international conscience to take in Charles Taylor to ease the suffering of Liberian people. To turn back and now mount pressure on Nigeria is to some extent unfair."
Among West African leaders eager to restore stability to Liberia, even broaching the subject of Mr. Taylor's fate is not entirely welcome. "We are not allowing ourselves to be diverted by the Taylor issue," Ghana's foreign minister, Nana Akufo-Addo, said in an interview here last week. "Our main concern is peace in Liberia, not the fate of one individual. Taylor is not the first African dictator in exile."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Last July, Charles Taylor was still Liberia's leader. Now he is in exile. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); AMNESTY (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); IMMUNITY (71%); GENOCIDE (68%); LEGISLATION (65%) War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Charles (Former Pres) Taylor; Somini Sengupta

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBERIA (97%); NIGERIA (95%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (94%); SIERRA LEONE (93%); GUINEA-BISSAU (92%); GHANA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%) Liberia; Nigeria

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



542 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: The World: Mao vs. Modernism; 
A New Cultural Revolution in China ... or Is It?

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Friday marks the 110th anniversary of Mao Zedong's birthday and the Chinese government has rolled out the obligatory blizzard of tributes. There are compilations of Mao's poems, biographies, television documentaries, a photography exhibit and a compact disc with Maoist maxims pounding to a rap music beat.
 Yet if the transformation of the Great Helmsman into the Great Rapper seems a stretch, it reflects the continued emergence, under the watch of Communist Party censors, of a middle-class pop culture increasingly like that in the West: loud, sensationalistic and often banal, driven largely by a marketplace where the purse strings are increasingly controlled by the young -- even the very young. 
 The question is whether this noisy pop culture represents a meaningful increase in personal freedom for Chinese citizens or merely serves as a superficial distraction from a repressive political structure. 
The shattering of taboos and upending of traditions is widespread. For decades, beauty pageants were banned, but earlier this month, China was host to its first Miss World pageant. Polls show that far more Chinese couples are having premarital sex or living together before marriage than ever before. Plastic surgery is thriving in a country where bodies were once hidden in drab Mao suits. And divorce rates, once almost nonexistent, are rising. 
"China is going through a very chaotic time right now," said Jianying Zha, whose 1995 book, "China Pop," chronicled the rise of popular culture in the early 1990's. "All the old values are being turned upside down."
The idea of a youth-obsessed society is taken for granted in the United States. But in China, where reverence for the elderly is an ingrained cultural trait, it represents a notable change. Retirees still gather in Beijing's parks for traditional morning exercises, but the city vibrating around them hardly seems to notice.
"We can see a kind of power shift to the younger generation," said Victor Yuan, chief executive of Horizon Market Research, a leading Chinese private polling company. He added: "This is sort of sad. The older generation is being more silent in the family and more silent in society."
Mr. Yuan attributes the trend to market economics and the unintended consequences of China's one-child family policy. Where the elderly once represented the power center of the family, Mr. Yuan said the only child, regarded as precious, is the new center. And with economic reform raising incomes for many Chinese, Mr. Yuan said parents now often turn to their more technologically savvy children for a range of buying decisions.
"The kid decides what kind of products we buy, where we should travel for vacation, what we should go to the theater to see," said Mr. Yuan, citing polling research. "The kids are substantial decision makers."
Mr. Yuan said that he organizes focus groups of young people and that his corporate clients are paying attention. Cell phone companies regularly introduce new product lines with colors or games to appeal to teenagers. He said one noodle company changed its packaging to appeal to children who shop with their parents.
The influence of Western culture is obvious in cities like Shanghai and Beijing. New luxury apartments and gated suburban villas are named "Glory," "Garden Hills" or "Yosemite," and often feature Western models in their advertising. Fast-food chains like McDonald's have been around long enough that a generation of Chinese kids have grown up eating burgers and fries. 
Li Jing, a spokeswoman for a chain of plastic surgery clinics in Beijing, said many women once wanted procedures to look more Western. But she said that trend has faded, and younger clients often try to look more like their favorite Hong Kong, Taiwan or Chinese television or film stars. One young woman became a celebrity after she underwent almost 20 procedures. Older clients, meanwhile, are often trying to stay relevant in a society that increasingly prizes youth.
"A lot of middle-aged women want to look younger, sometimes for seeking a job or also for remarriage," Ms. Li said.
The larger question is whether all this cultural noise represents greater freedom. In a country of 1.3 billion people, the overwhelmingly majority are still too poor to afford the accouterments of the rising middle class. Yet that middle class is growing quickly, and experts warn against underestimating the government's ability to exert control. Newspapers still face censorship, and books and movies are still banned, including a recent critical biography of Zhou Enlai, Communist China's first prime minister. 
MOST of all, political speech is closely monitored, with controversial Web sites routinely blocked. Even as the government recently released three "cyber dissidents," another was arrested for promoting Christian activities online. And sexual mores can only be pushed so far: a magazine sex columnist who wrote an explicit online diary eventually shut down her Web site under pressure. The government then banned her book.
Even so, Wang Junxiu, chief executive of ChinaLabs, an Internet research and consulting firm, said the Internet's ability to disseminate once-secret information was proved this year when chat rooms and other sites became essential information sources during the SARS outbreak or after the controversial beating death of a man detained by the police in Guangdong Province.
"A new generation is emerging along with the Internet," he said.
Xu Youyu, a scholar of Western philosophy at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, concedes that popular culture is not his specialty. But he worries that a generation so adept at surfing the Internet remains largely untaught about China's recent history, notably the horrors of the Cultural Revolution when Mao plunged the country into chaos. He even worries that such ignorance could lead history to repeat itself.
"When we talk about the problem of social injustice, they thought Chairman Mao's policies were very good," he said. "There is a serious misunderstanding of the Cultural Revolution."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A changing China is reflected in the Enjoy Business Club in Shenzhen, above, where karaoke is offered on the main floors and sex upstairs in private rooms. Also, left, the Miss World contest, held in China this year for the first time. Meanwhile, right, Cultural Revolution memorabilia is now in vogue. (Photo by Reagan Louie, from "Orientalia: Sex in Asia"/Powerhouse Books); (Photo by Frederic J. Brown/Agence France-Presse); (Photo by Peter Charlesworth/Asiaworks Photography) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); FAMILY (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); CENSORSHIP (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRENDS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (72%); RAP MUSIC (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); CHILDREN (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (68%); AGING (68%); COHABITATION (67%); FOCUS GROUPS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PHOTOGRAPHY (57%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Social Conditions and Trends; Culture; Geographic Profiles

PERSON: Jim Yardley

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



543 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: PRELUDES; 
The Rewards Of Persistence

BYLINE:  By ABBY ELLIN; Abby Ellin is a Manhattan writer. Her column on starting out in the world of money appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: preludes@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
I'VE never quite understood New Year's resolutions. Why designate just one time of year to pursue ambitions you should be chasing all along? 
 Still, many people continue to set goals at year-end, particularly concerning their careers. MyGoals.com, a service intended to help people reach their goals, says that after health and fitness concerns, its customers' most common resolutions are work-related. 
 Who knows how many will actually meet their goals next year, or thereafter? What I want to know is why some people, especially young adults, can follow through on their goals and zoom to the top, while others can keep to a plan for only a few minutes. 
 Ann M. Graybiel, a professor of neuroscience at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, offers a scientific explanation. She says that those who can't stick to their goals often are not making adequate use of their basal ganglia, the large collections of nerve cells underneath the cerebral cortex. As a result, these people can become easily frustrated when they don't see immediate results.
 Or maybe some of us are just accustomed to instant gratification. After all, my generation grew up with things like remote controls, microwaves and A.T.M.'s. We're not used to waiting for anything.
 Persistence, though, kept Michael Lipp going after he decided to leave a career in photography to become a professional chef about eight years ago. Mr. Lipp knew that he would have to work 14-hour days in someone else's kitchen before realizing his dream, but he enrolled at the French Culinary Institute in New York anyway."The desire to learn more keeps you motivated," said Mr. Lipp, who is now 32 and the executive chef at Petrossian, a restaurant in Midtown Manhattan. 
 Sometimes, sheer economics are enough of an incentive. Like many other journalists, Lynnette Khalfani, 35, of West Orange, N.J., always wanted to write a book. She did not intend to start her own publishing house. But after almost signing a deal with a publisher, she said, she did the math and discovered that she could make more money if she published the book herself. 
 "If I took the deal from this one company and sold 20,000 copies, I would have made $40,000," she said. "But by owning my own publishing company I could still sell the same 20,000 copies at a minimum and net $200,000 as the publisher."
 Her vision didn't come to life overnight. Ms. Khalfani had to educate herself, attending conferences and talking to people in the industry. This year, she founded Advantage World Press, and her first book, "Investing Success," is to arrive in January. She has seven more books in the works. 
 "I make mistakes," she said. "But I couldn't see working just as hard and giving someone else the financial benefits." 
 Ms. Khalfani said she found that writing a list of goals, and revisiting them often, helped her stay on target. It also helped that she knew why she was making a change, and that her ambitions were realistic. "When you have a belief in something," Ms. Khalfani said, "it helps you get through the tough times."
 Some people, however, may need a nudge from an outside source, and they can get it for a price. For $75, you can buy GoalMaker software (www.goalmaker.com), which trains you to "identify, set, organize, manage and reach your goals."
 The PocketGoals Company (www.pocketgoals.com) in Riverside, Calif., makes platinum-colored cards, the size of a credit card, with your goals embossed on them. You are supposed to keep them in your wallet or pocket, review them daily and take steps to achieve them. The company promises to refund your money if you don't succeed. (The card costs $8.95; there's no time limit on the refund offer.) Of course, you can also write down your aspirations on a piece of paper and tape it to your bathroom mirror -- free.
 THEN there is MyGoals.com, based in Scottsdale, Ariz. For $49.95 a year, or $5.95 a month, it helps people create plans for achieving their goals and then helps them follow through, primarily by sending them dunning e-mail reminders. ("Have you finished that business plan?" "Did you write that first sentence?") 
 "You must believe that it's possible for you to achieve the goal, or you won't be motivated to try," said Greg Helmstetter, 35, the company's chief executive. But he added: "Just because you believe that the goal is possible doesn't mean that it'll be easy or even probable that you achieve it. It's important to set goals and have a plan." 
 "A goal without a plan," he said, "is somewhat wishful thinking."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Katherine Streeter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (89%); WRITERS (85%); RESTAURANTS (77%); NEUROSCIENCE (76%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (74%); BRAIN (74%); BOOK PUBLISHING (66%) New Year

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%)

PERSON: Abby Ellin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



544 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2325 words

HEADLINE: You Say 'Takeover.' I Say 'Merger of Equals.' 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM; Rita K. Farrell contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del. 

 BODY:
GUNNING BEDFORD JR., was known for bluster and brinkmanship. As one of Delaware's delegates to the Constitutional Convention in 1787, he threatened to seek "some foreign ally of more honor and good faith" unless small states received Congressional representation that reflected more than their population. Heconcluded his speech by thundering to his fellow delegates, "I do not, gentlemen, trust you!"
 Perhaps it is fitting that a portrait of the white-wigged Mr. Bedford, who went on to become a federal judge here, is one of two old oil paintings that dominate the courtroom where two legendary deal makers, Jurgen E. Schrempp and Kirk Kerkorian, appeared this month to dissect one of the largest global industrial mergers in history, the 1998 combination of Daimler-Benz and Chrysler. 
 Trust, and balance of power, are also at the heart of this more recent dispute. 
 In 1998, both sides -- Daimler-Benz executives in Stuttgart, Germany, and Chrysler executives in Auburn Hills, Mich. -- famously labeled the deal a "merger of equals," a gauzy term without legal definition. 
 Mr. Kerkorian, the 86-year-old Las Vegas casino mogul who was Chrysler's top shareholder at the time of the merger, is suing DaimlerChrysler. He contends that the deal was fraudulently labeled a merger when it was actually envisioned as a takeover from the start by Mr. Schrempp, Daimler-Benz's chief executive, and the rest of his management team. 
 Testimony in the trial was expected to conclude last week but was thrown off course when DaimlerChrysler turned over 61 pages of notes written by former top Chrysler executives during the transaction.
 The notes were sealed, though a few scraps emerged in court proceedings, including bullet points like "loss of independence" and "senior management sold out."
 "I don't think anyone would disagree it's a serious issue," said Judge Joseph J. Farnan Jr., referring to the 11th-hour appearance of the notes after two years of depositions and document review. He recessed the trial and turned over the notes to a special court master, who will determine their relevance and "how we got into this mess," as the judge put it. A hearing is scheduled for tomorrow, and testimony in the trial itself is expected to conclude in January. 
 So far, the trial has provided more than mere spectacle. It has offered a revealing glimpse into the current state of DaimlerChrysler -- not to mention the worldwide car industry. Mr. Schrempp said his vision was to create a global auto conglomerate beyond nationality. But his words, if not his case, have been belied by the increasingly monolithic look of the company's management. 
 After the deal was consummated, 10 former Daimler executives and eight former Chrysler executives were on the new company's management board, which under German corporate law oversees day-to-day operations. Since then, the board has become smaller, consisting of 10 German auto executives and only one former Chrysler executive. 
 In 2000, DaimlerChrysler sent two former Mercedes executives to the Detroit area to run the Chrysler Group. In a taped deposition, Hilmar Kopper, DaimlerChrysler's supervisory board chairman, said that when Chrysler's results began "sinking like a stone," there was no good American management talent at the company to replace executives who left. 
 "We had all sorts of second thoughts about sending Germans over; we took it for granted that Chrysler could always be run by Americans, only to find this did not come true," said Mr. Kopper, whose role is analogous to that of a chairman of the board in the United States. Mr. Schrempp's role as chairman of the management board is similar to that of a chief executive in the United States.
 If the company's management board has tilted away from the old Chrysler, the supervisory board, similar to a board of directors, is still equally represented by former Daimler-Benz and Chrysler directors on its business side. (Under German law, supervisory boards also have members representing workers, including a top official of the United Automobile Workers union.) 
 WHY did the former Chrysler chairman, Robert J. Eaton, make the deal with Daimler-Benz in the first place? Because he had to, according to most analysts. His company was too small to compete on its own among a shrinking number of large auto conglomerates. 
 "I was always supportive of the merger, acquisition or whatever, because I really felt that what Chrysler was going to be facing was a very difficult period," said David E. Cole, president of the Center for Automotive Research, a consulting and research group based in Ann Arbor, Mich. "You could see the Mack truck coming down the road." 
 But Mr. Kerkorian is looking at a different Mack truck: the collapse of DaimlerChrysler stock, from nearly $108 in early 1999 to under $27 last March. Shares closed at $45, which was a new 52-week high, on Friday on the New York Stock Exchange.
 His suit was prompted by a 2000 interview in The Financial Times of London, in which Mr. Schrempp said he had intended all along to relegate Chrysler to a division of the parent company and had used the term "merger of equals" only for "psychological" reasons. 
 Mr. Schrempp described himself as a chess player, keeping his next moves secret. "If I had gone out and said, 'Look, eventually Chrysler will be a division of the DaimlerChrysler Group,' everybody would have said, 'No way will we do a deal like that,"' he told the newspaper. 
 The article set off a storm of publicity and so upset the Chrysler Group's American employees that Mr. Schrempp eventually visited them and said his comments had been misunderstood. 
 As a result of his suit, Mr. Kerkorian took the stand on Dec. 2, his mane of grayish white hair beginning with a pronounced widow's peak. He wore a gray suit with a blue tie and a white shirt. Sketches by a courtroom artist made him look more youthful than his age would suggest, so he had his underlings buy some of them. 
 He testified that he was "very surprised, very upset" by the Schrempp interview and the fact that a few weeks after it appeared, the American chief executive of Chrysler, James P. Holden, was dismissed and replaced by Dieter Zetsche, a former Mercedes executive from Germany. 
 "It was like there was deception," Mr. Kerkorian said. "And I guess I got more upset when Holden was fired shortly after. It was all in two weeks' time. Then there were two people who came out from Stuttgart and just took over Chrysler. So everything fell in place."
 From the start, though, there were signs that the combination was not exactly on an equal footing. Not only was the new company incorporated in Germany, but Daimler-Benz shareholders held 58 percent of its stock, and Chrysler shareholders were paid a premium of 28 percent above the former share value. Mr. Kerkorian's lawyers say a much higher premium would have been merited in the case of an outright acquisition. He is seeking at least $1 billion in damages. In August, DaimlerChrysler agreed to settle a class-action suit for $300 million that was filed by other disgruntled investors over similar claims about the representation of the merger.
 BEFORE the merger, Chrysler was among the most profitable companies in the industry. Now it is hemorrhaging market share, is mired in red ink and a price war and is seen as an albatross around DaimlerChrysler's neck. Much of the problem is market driven. Chrysler, which includes the Dodge and Jeep brands, pioneered segments like the sport utility vehicle and the minivan, which became vital profit centers that initially were relatively unchallenged. But in the last few years, those segments have been overrun with competition from all of the major automakers, especially the Japanese Big Three: Toyota, Honda and Nissan. 
 "It's a tough competitive situation and there are no easy answers," said David Healy, an analyst at Burnham Securities. Of DaimlerChrysler's Mr. Zetsche, Mr. Healy said: "He's done about as well as expected given their internal costs. He just has no control over the industry as a whole."
 Mr. Schrempp, appearing at the trial a week after Mr. Kerkorian, wore a dark suit, blue shirt, striped tie and his studious-looking eyeglasses. He testified in English, with only occasional help from a translator; a Latin phrase, caveat emptor, gave him trouble.
 "Excuse me. What is that?" he asked Mr. Kerkorian's lawyer, Terry N. Christensen. 
 "Buyer beware," Mr. Christensen said. 
 "Sorry," Mr. Schrempp replied. "I don't understand that."
 Of the Financial Times interview, he repeated that his comments had been misunderstood. When he said division, Mr. Schrempp explained, he meant only Chrysler's auto operations, not its top management structure. In other words, Chrysler would be a division the way Mercedes would be a division. 
 "Chrysler was not divided in a corporate part and operating part," he said. "So only as a result of the negotiation for the merger of equals did we take the corporate part of Chrysler, meaning directors, executive committee, staff functions, and merge them with the corporate part of Daimler-Benz."
 DaimlerChrysler's lawyers have suggested that Mr. Kerkorian's claim borders on the absurd. They said that the terms of the deal had been spelled out clearly in writing in an agreement disclosed to shareholders and that Mr. Kerkorian had an insider's view of the transaction through his representative on Chrysler's board. 
 Like Mr. Kerkorian, several former Chrysler executives testified that they, too, were either hurt or puzzled by Mr. Schrempp's interview. One was Mr. Eaton, the former Chrysler chairman who had split the chairmanship of DaimlerChrysler's management board for two years with Mr. Schrempp. 
 Yet the Chrysler executives, Mr. Eaton included, also said that they stood by the deal. "I believe it was a merger of equals," Thomas T. Stallkamp, the former president of the Chrysler Group, said at the trial. He was forced out of Chrysler the year after the merger. 
 But was it a merger of equals? At the trial, Mr. Schrempp called that description "absolutely correct."
 "And by telling the truth," he added, "I don't think I can defraud anyone."
 Further, he argued, the terms of the contract laid out a division of management for a set period of a few years, and that condition was met; beyond that, he said, no company can permanently cede the right to make management changes. 
 Mr. Schrempp said he saw the deal as a chance to survive in an industry that had shrunk from 50 to 60 automakers in the 1960's to 16 or 17 in 1998 and now to 10 or less, depending on how interlocking companies are counted. "We were continually studying what will happen in the international automotive industry, who are the companies that will survive this consolidation process," he said. "What do you have to do to be part of those companies to survive?" 
 The crucial factors were being large enough to have competitive economies of scale, to compete in the world's major markets -- Europe, the United States and Asia -- and to maintain a high level of technology, be it engineering or gadgetry. The third factor was costly, but especially important to maintaining a luxury brand like Mercedes. 
 "We were very good, obviously, in technology," said Mr. Schrempp. "We had and still have in this field very good margins, good cars. Luxury cars I am talking about. But we had the volume of 800,000, 900,000 cars." By contrast, General Motors, the world's largest automaker, sold more than 8.6 million cars and trucks last year.
 As for competitors, Mr. Schrempp said: "We were on the forefront of technology, which means we had the highest cost to finance that technology. And we were actually concerned whether we can sustain that, because others have seen our success, others were coming. Honda, Toyota, BMW were in there already. Audi was coming. So we couldn't sit there and say let's enjoy these high margins on a low-volume basis. We could not sustain that."
 LEGAL experts say the plaintiff must prove that he was deliberately misled about the nature of the transaction. That is difficult, the legal experts say, considering that the contract is generally king in such cases -- but not impossible, if there is any vagueness within the contract. 
 Judge Farnan, who will decide the case from the bench, has already said in one of his pretrial rulings that "the term 'merger of equals' was not defined solely" by what appeared in the written agreement. So testimony and cross-examinations have focused on what was said and what was not -- within the lengthy contract, among executives across the negotiating table and to reporters. 
 "The premise is that you can enter into contracts, but if someone lies to you about the material premise of the contract before you entered into it, you can say, wait, you snookered me," said Lawrence A. Hamermesh, an associate professor specializing in corporate law at Widener University Law School in Wilmington. 
 "It's hard to argue," he added. "The response of the DaimlerChrysler people was, 'Look, we didn't fool anybody. You had your own lawyers and a member on the board. This is the deal you saw and the deal you got."'
 Richard W. Painter, a corporate law professor at the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana, said the contract "is a very large part of what the full disclosure was to the shareholders." 
 "On the other hand, it's not just what's in the contract, but what's in the proxy statement, the public statements to the press, what the courts call the total mix of information," he added. "It seemed to me at the time this was an acquisition of Daimler by Chrysler."
 But he added that not many cases like this actually went to trial. "It's indicative of the fact that Kerkorian has a case. I don't know if he has a winning case," he said, adding: "I wouldn't want to predict which side is going to win this thing. I'm stating the obvious, but Daimler has a problem on their hands."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 28, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Sunday with an article about a dispute over the deal that created DaimlerChrysler in 1998 misspelled the surname of the only member of the company's current board of management who comes from the former Chrysler. He is Thomas W. Sidlik, not Sidlick.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kirk Kerkorian, left, and Jurgen Schrempp are at odds over the DaimlerChrysler deal. (Photo by Getty Images); (Photo by Reuters)(pg. 1); Documents related to a lawsuit filed by Kirk Kerkorian, outside the federal courthouse in Wilimgton, Del. (Photo by Bloomberg News); Thomas W. Sidlick (pg. 10) Chart: "LoneAmerican"DaimlerChrysler's top executive group, called the board of management, has only one member from the former Chrysler, Thomas W. Sidlick Jurgen E. SchremppChairman Eckhard CordesCommercial vehicles Gunther FleigHuman resources and labor relations director Manfred GentzFinance and controlling Rudiger GrubeCorporate development Jurgen HubbertMercedes Car Group Thomas W. SidlickGlobal procurement and supply Dieter ZetscheChief executive and president, Chrysler Group Wolfgang BernhardChief operating officer, Chrysler Group Thomas WeberResearch and technology Bodo UebberServices (Source by DaimlerChrysler)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (92%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); DEPOSITIONS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); JUDGES (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PAINTING (71%); DIVESTITURES (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (66%) Automobiles; Suits and Litigation; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Frauds and Swindling; Automobiles

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Daimlerchrysler Ag; Daimler-Benz Ag

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (90%) Danny Hakim; Kirk Kerkorian; Jurgen E Schrempp

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (78%) DELAWARE, USA (92%) GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



545 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Egyptians Wonder if Mubarak's Son Will Stir Things Up 

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: CAIRO, Dec. 20 

 BODY:
Gamal Mubarak, dressed in an open-collared white shirt, black pants and loafers, had been onstage at the American University in Cairo talking about political and economic reform for roughly two hours before one student finally asked the question on everybody's mind.
 Was the young Mr. Mubarak planning to run for president, the student wanted to know. If so, did he expect to win a one-candidate referendum with some 99 percent of the vote, as his father habitually does? 
 Mr. Mubarak, 40, demurred. "I have been asked that question 100 times," he said, smiling. "There are rumors that I am being groomed for the post, but they are baseless." 
There was a time when nobody would have believed that response. Egyptians seemed resigned to the fact that President Hosni Mubarak's second son, Gamal, as his presumed successor, would at least be a young civilian preaching reform, even if not a democratically elected leader.
But since that scene at the university unfolded in May, the move toward political reform seems to have stalled, and with it the expectation that Egypt will experience any substantial change as long as Hosni Mubarak, the 75-year-old president who has governed for 22 years, remains in office.
Opponents of the Mubarak government now say that senior officials in Cairo have adopted the vocabulary of reform without actually undertaking any. The officials are both responding to Washington's campaign for greater democracy in the Middle East, and trying to shore up the tumbling popularity of the governing party, which took a drubbing in the 2000 parliamentary elections. But there is no intention, critics say, of disturbing the men who have been running Egypt for over two decades. 
Egyptians themselves, especially members of the the younger generation, in touch with the outside world by way of the Internet and satellite television, are left to wonder aloud how long they will have to live under a stagnant, basically one-party system. Many of them want open presidential elections, free political parties, an end to the emergency laws that suspend many court procedures and an economy that can provide meaningful work to some 800,000 new job seekers every year.
"Hosni Mubarak has not ruled for even one hour without emergency law," says Ahmed Belal, a young political activist. "I am 21 years old and I have never experienced living in Egypt under normal conditions."
Before 1952, Egypt was a nascent democracy with a multiparty system, a real parliament and freedom of speech. After a military coup that year, the institutions of democracy were gradually hollowed out in favor of one-man rule -- a pattern copied across the Arab world.
The problems Egypt's leaders face in trying to give more voice to popular demands for a greater say in running the country, while not diluting their control, is one inherent in all the sclerotic Arab political systems spawned in the 1950's and 1960's.
In Egypt, the autocracy of Gamal Abdel Nasser begot that of Anwar el-Sadat, which begot that of Hosni Mubarak -- all of them military men who brooked little opposition. Since he took office after Sadat's assassination by Islamic militants in 1981, Mr. Mubarak has refused to select a vice president. He quashed anyone who developed a prominent public profile -- leading to the conclusion that he wanted to avoid giving a platform to any potential rival.
Everyone assumed the next president would be like the others: a military man. The most frequently mentioned is Lt. Gen. Omar Suleiman, the head of the intelligence agency who has also been given the Palestinian affairs portfolio.
But then Gamal Mubarak began assuming a public role after returning from a stint in London as an investment banker. In 2002, he was appointed head of the newly created Policy Secretariat in the governing National Democratic Party. His ostensible mandate was reform. Egypt's intellectuals and commentators assumed this was the first rung on a ladder that would have led to party leader by now, with later promotions to cabinet minister, vice president and ultimately leader of Egypt. But Gamal Mubarak has not moved past the first rung, and has even lowered his public profile.
"We thought he would pave the way in front of Gamal, but he hasn't done it," said Ali Salam, one of Egypt's most prominent playwrights, referring to Hosni Mubarak. Many analysts consider Gamal Mubarak's ambiguous position a reflection of his father's frame of mind.
On the rare occasions when he is asked if his son will succeed him, President Mubarak's most pointed response has been, "Egypt is not Syria." Syria changed its Constitution to allow the 34-year-old Bashar Assad to succeed his father. 
Most political analysts believe that the president's son lacks the necessary support in either the army, still viewed as the country's most powerful institution, or among officials of the governing party to succeed in case his father dies suddenly.
"If Mubarak dies without putting Gamal in power, he couldn't get a cab to stop for him," said an opposition journalist, Ibrahim Essa.
Yet it is considered unlikely that President Mubarak will step aside for his son. The issue of succession was highlighted last month when the president collapsed during a speech before Parliament, returning to the podium some 50 minutes later, apparently wrestling with nothing more than flu.
Rather than raise questions about succession, however, Egypt's official press swung into action. "The Most Difficult 50 Minutes Egypt Has Ever Lived Through," read a headline in the daily Al Ahram.
The once independent weekly Roz el-Yousuf published an entire issue under the heading "Egypt Breathless for an Entire 50 Minutes," with articles reminiscent of the fanzine ofan ailing rock star. "Intellectuals: We Were Scared to Death" was the title of one story, while the next was "Artists: The President Loves Egyptians so Egyptians Love Him Back."
Mr. Mubarak will undoubtedly present himself for a fifth term in 2005, but the question of succession remains unanswered.
Oddly, analysts and opposition figures say the one way that Gamal Mubarak might easily become president is the one route that his father and the party have ruled out -- amending the 1971 Constitution to allow for direct presidential elections. The toothless opposition parties have been demanding such a step for years, rather than having Parliament select one candidate for a referendum.
Although there is widespread criticism that Gamal Mubarak's reform program remains anemic, he has made a name as an intelligent, handsome policy wonk. He has also been able to produce some change. Legislation to abolish the State Security courts, to end hard-labor sentences and to establish a still pending National Committee for Human Rights all came from the younger Mr. Mubarak's policy group. They also helped to start what is supposed to be a national discussion of widening democracy.
Egyptian analysts say any of Gamal Mubarak's reforms would face heavy resistance from party officials worried about losing their ministerial fiefs. The analysts are divided, though, about why the president chose his son for the party policy job: because only someone named Mubarak could make any headway, or because he thought the son could be relied on to prevent reform efforts from becoming a runaway train.
Opponents call the reforms window dressing anyway, since substantive steps for moving toward democracy have not been addressed.
Gamal Mubarak himself referred to the problems during a speech to the American Chamber of Commerce in Egypt in September. "When you start change, sometimes people feel threatened," he said. 
The government does not welcome blunt dissent. Human rights groups estimate that there are 15,000 to 25,000 political prisoners here, the vast majority Muslim fundamentalists. But the population at large is beginning to grumble more loudly about economic problems, as the dwindling value of the Egyptian pound pushes up the cost of living.
Many Egyptians, especially in the younger generation, have basically lost hope that change will come anytime soon. "For reform to be fulfilled, the entire clan has to be changed," said Fahd al-Tarzi, a 25-year-old investment banker who attended Gamal Mubarak's luncheon. "You can't just change the figurehead and not the system."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gamal Mubarak, center, who has been rumored to be a likely successor to his father, President Hosni Mubarak, at a Coptic Christian midnight Mass in Cairo last January. He has a reputation as a reformer. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUBARAK RESIGNATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); REFERENDUMS (71%); COUPS (65%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (50%); ARMED FORCES (50%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (50%) Politics and Government; Freedom and Human Rights; Elections; United States International Relations; Public Opinion

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (93%) Neil Macfarquhar; Hosni (Pres) Mubarak; Gamal Mubarak

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%) EGYPT (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Egypt; Egypt

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



546 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: A New Pathway To the Stars 

BYLINE:  By Timothy Ferris; Timothy Ferris is author, most recently, of "Seeing in the Dark: How Backyard Stargazers Are Probing Deep Space and Guarding Earth From Interplanetary Peril."

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
The flop at Kitty Hawk the other day, when a reproduction of the Wright brothers' first plane swooned into a mud puddle instead of taking flight, seemed embarrassingly emblematic of America's manned space program, which is also going nowhere. Thirty-three years after the Wright brothers flew, paying customers were snoozing in berths aboard commercial airliners; 33 years after that, men walked on the Moon. Yet today, a third of a century after NASA's lunar triumph, we're down to a fleet of three grounded space shuttles and a low-orbit space station serviced by aging Russian rockets. It's time either to get moving again -- or to cash in our chips and leave human space exploration to other nations. 
 Talk has been that President Bush is preparing a bold new mission plan for NASA, much as John F. Kennedy did in 1961 when he committed the nation to putting a man on the Moon before the end of the decade. Some space enthusiasts are urging Mr. Bush to aim for Mars, but the long time lines involved suggest that he would wind up, as his father did, with nothing to show for it but a few NASA reports with soaring price tags attached and a nagging sense that he'd been had. Others talk of building yet another space station, higher up -- perhaps at the "L 1 point," between Earth and the Moon -- but to say that you are exploring space by orbiting inside a tin can is like claiming to have explored the Atlantic because you made an ocean-liner crossing in a cabin below the waterline. 
 A better target would be the Moon. I know, I know: at first blush it sounds like a case of "Been there, done that." But a new lunar campaign could reinvigorate the manned space program and open up the solar system to future exploration -- if we do it right. That doesn't mean another Apollo-style "flags and footprints" bash that briefly doubles the NASA budget and then shrinks it back again, leaving everyone with indelible memories and a crippling hangover. 
Rather, it means establishing a permanent lunar base, where explorers can refine the technology and techniques required to colonize Mars, in cooperation with other nations and with private entrepreneurs, all without irresponsibly increasing NASA's budget or shortchanging its admirable robotic space-probe programs. That may be a tall order, but -- a la the Wright brothers -- the venture's success depends less on money than on dedication, ingenuity and innovation. 
Contemporary thinking about Mars exploration stresses site preparation (dispatching prefabricated habitats, extra rocket fuel and emergency rescue craft before sending a crew), long terms of duty (requiring astronauts to stay for months or years, not the days or weeks that the men of Apollo spent on the Moon), and devising the technologies that will make it possible for astronauts to live off the land when they're on Mars. All these approaches can be tested and refined at a lunar base. 
Preliminary studies suggest that such a base might be sited at or near the lunar south pole. The south pole, with its sun-drenched mountain peaks, is a great place to gather solar-electric power. What's more, the region's cold, dark crater floors offer near-ideal locations for astronomical telescopes, which could search for Earth-like planets circling other stars. 
The lunar poles may also harbor frozen water, useful for slaking settlers' thirst and, when broken down into its constituent hydrogen and oxygen, for making rocket fuel. Since the Moon has only a sixth of the Earth's gravity, it is cheaper to send fuel down from the Moon to low Earth orbit than to bring it up from below. (Getting stuff into orbit from the Earth's surface costs a staggering $10,000 per pound.) Hence cheap rocket fuel could become the Moon's first profitable export. 
Lunar mining is another promising prospect: If you want to construct, say, a space elevator attached to an orbiting resort hotel, it makes economic sense to import your heavy-metal infrastructures from the Moon. Such space-tourism ventures may sound fanciful, but the hotel chains don't necessarily think so; they've been sending representatives to space-privatization conferences for years now.
By the middle of the century, when some 10 billion earthlings will consume 5 to 10 times today's global electricity output, Moon bases could be selling solar power. The Moon has plenty of wide, open plains where large solar panels could be deployed without inconveniencing anyone; also, it never rains or gets cloudy. A study conducted by David Criswell of the University of Houston asserts that lunar-solar power, dispatched as tightly focused microwave beams to receiving antennas on Earth, "could provide the clean, safe, low-cost commercial electric energy needed on Earth." 
Another possible energy source of the future -- nuclear fusion reactors burning clean, safe helium-3 -- has its own lunar connection. Helium-3, rare on Earth, is abundant on the Moon. When fusion reactors start coming on line, lunar entrepreneurs may stand to make the kind of money their predecessors raked in during the gold rush and the oil boom. 
As such sugarplum visions of potential profits suggest, the long-term success of a lunar habitation will depend on the involvement of private enterprise, or what Harrison H. Schmitt, an Apollo astronaut, calls "a business-and-investor-based approach to a return to the Moon to stay." The important thing about involving entrepreneurs and oil-rig-grade roughnecks is that they can take personal and financial risks that are unacceptable, as a matter of national pride, when all the explorers are astronauts wearing national flags on their sleeves. 
One reason aviation progressed so rapidly, going from the Wright brothers to supersonic jets in only 44 years, is that individuals got involved -- it wasn't just governments. Charles A. Lindbergh didn't risk his neck in 1927 purely for personal gratification: he was after the $25,000 Orteig Prize, offered by Raymond Orteig, a New York hotelier, for the first nonstop flight between New York and Paris. Had Lindbergh failed, his demise, though tragic, would have been viewed as a daredevil's acknowledged jeopardy, not a national catastrophe. Settling the Moon or Mars may at times mean taking greater risks than the 2 percent fatality rate that shuttle astronauts now face.
Critics of the manned space program say that most of its scientific accomplishments could be matched, at far less cost, by robotic probes. They're mainly right about that, but science is one thing and exploration another. America was founded by explorers -- not just the newcomers, but those who migrated across the Bering Strait more than 10,000 years ago. Exploration is seldom cheap or risk-free, but the hazards of staying home can be greater still. The Ming Dynasty Chinese tried that. In the early 15th century they were the world's premier seafarers, dispatching scores of ships and thousands of explorers as far as the Persian Gulf and across the Pacific. Then, for whatever reason, they stopped and turned inward, passing laws that made it a crime even to build an oceangoing junk. I don't know anyone in China today who thinks the country's rulers did the right thing, or is inclined to repeat their mistake.
Better that we join with the modern Chinese -- and the Russians, the Europeans and the Japanese; both their governments and their wild-eyed individual risk-takers -- in resuming the exploratory enterprise that began in Africa a million years ago and has made humanity, for better or worse, the masters of this planet. The Moon may not be the most exciting target in the sky, but it's a broad, accessible steppingstone that just might lead to the stars. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACECRAFT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (89%); SPACE STATIONS (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); SPACE PROPULSION (76%); BUDGETS (74%); AIRLINES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%) Space; Moon; Mars (Planet)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (59%) National Aeronautics and Space Administration

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Timothy Ferris

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH'S MOON (94%); MARS (93%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



547 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: STRONG SUPPORT IS FOUND FOR BAN ON GAY MARRIAGE 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and JANET ELDER

 BODY:
The latest New York Times/CBS News poll has found widespread support for an amendment to the United States Constitution to ban gay marriage. It also found unease about homosexual relations in general, making the issue a potentially divisive one for the Democrats and an opportunity for the Republicans in the 2004 election.
 Support for a constitutional amendment extends across a wide swath of the public and includes a majority of people traditionally viewed as supportive of gay rights, including Democrats, women and people who live on the East Coast. 
 Attitudes on the subject seem to be inextricably linked to how people view marriage itself. For a majority of Americans -- 53 percent -- marriage is largely a religious matter. Seventy-one percent of those people oppose gay marriage. Similarly, 33 percent of Americans say marriage is largely a legal matter and a majority of those people -- 55 percent -- say they support gay marriage. 
The most positive feelings toward gay people were registered among respondents under 30, and among those who knew gay people.
The nationwide poll found that 55 percent of Americans favored an amendment to the constitution that would allow marriage only between a man and a woman, while 40 percent opposed the idea.
The findings come after the highest court in Massachusetts ruled 4 to 3 last month that same-sex marriage was permissible under the state's Constitution. That ruling followed a 6-to-3 decision in late June by the United States Supreme Court striking down antisodomy laws.
President Bush had been noncommittal about a constitutional amendment immediately after the Massachusetts ruling, with the administration worried that support for a ban on gay marriage would alienate moderate voters. But last week Mr. Bush for the first time voiced his support, saying, "I will support a constitutional amendment which would honor marriage between a man and a woman, codify that."
The statement signals the White House's increasing confidence that it can exploit the matter in the presidential campaign, both to energize its evangelical supporters and to discredit the eventual Democratic nominee.
Most of the Democratic candidates oppose gay marriage but favor civil unions. Howard Dean, who is leading in the polls for the Democratic nomination, signed a law when he was governor of Vermont allowing civil unions, an action that Republicans have already used to portray him as too liberal for mainstream America.
The court rulings generated extensive publicity and concern, not only about same-sex marriage but also about having the courts set social agendas that have not been approved by the legislative process.
"We have found that the more people focus on it, the less they support it," said the Rev. Lou Sheldon, chairman of the Traditional Values Coalition, which strongly opposes gay marriage and is working actively for a constitutional ban.
The Times/CBS News poll was conducted from Dec. 10 through Dec. 13 in telephone interviews with 1,057 people. It carries a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. Responses about gay rights tend to be influenced somewhat by the wording of the questions.
This poll and other surveys show that as the courts have extended legal rights to gays this year, Americans have become increasingly uncomfortable with same-sex relations.
For decades, a majority of Americans have not approved of homosexual relations. That had begun to change, until the Supreme Court ruling in June and the Massachusetts ruling in November. A New York Times/CBS News poll conducted in July found that 54 percent of respondents said homosexual relations should be legal. Only 41 percent of the respondents in the latest poll said they should be legal.
Richard Waters, 71, a retired elementary school teacher in Little Valley, N.Y., and a Republican, said in a follow-up interview to the poll that he strongly supported a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage.
"I think any kind of amendment that says 'You shall not' will help," Mr. Waters said. "I just don't think it's right for two men to go parading around in public or for two women to be doing the things they do. It's against God's law. That's right in the Bible that it's wrong." 
Theresa Eaton, 49, a financial analyst in Corona, Calif., and also a Republican, agreed.
"I still believe that marriage should be between a man and woman," she said. "If I knew that we had a neighbor who was gay, I would not let my nieces and nephews go close by there. I don't want to accept their lifestyle. It can be acquired and it is not right."
The poll also found that by a 61-34 margin, Americans oppose gay marriage. They are slightly more accepting of civil unions to give gays some of the same legal rights as married couples, with 54 percent opposed to civil unions and 39 percent supportive.
The Massachusetts ruling also gave new impetus in Congress to sponsors of a constitutional amendment to ban gay marriage. An amendment, which would require passage by two-thirds of the House and Senate and three-fourths of the states, would override any state court ruling or legislation.
Representative Marilyn Musgrave, Republican of Colorado, who introduced a constitutional amendment in the House in May, said on Friday that she had 106 co-sponsors. The companion measure in the Senate still has only a handful of supporters.
"Homosexual activists have known that they're not going to get their way in the legislative arena, and they shopped around for activist judges," Ms. Musgrave said. "But if the definition of marriage is to be changed, it should be done by the American people, not four judges in Massachusetts."
Her measure would ban gay marriage. Some gay rights groups say its language is ambiguous on civil unions, but she said on Friday that her intent was to allow states to conduct civil unions but not let them be recognized in other states.
At the moment, only Vermont allows civil unions. In California, a domestic partnership bill giving gay couples limited rights is to go into effect in 2005, but it is under threat of a legal challenge.
Some groups on the religious right who are eager for a constitutional ban on gay marriage said Ms. Musgrave's measure did not go far enough. Mr. Sheldon, for one, said his group was seeking to ban civil unions and domestic partnership laws as well as same-sex marriage.
He said his group and others were lobbying President Bush to assert in his State of the Union address in January that he will also seek a ban on civil unions and domestic partnership laws. The groups are preparing to flood the White House with e-mail messages on the subject. 
Jan LaRue, counsel to Concerned Women for America, a conservative religious policy organization, said her group was involved in a public education campaign on "why marriage is important and needs to be protected." She added, "We are part of a broad coalition that is using bumper stickers, newspaper ads, articles on our Web sites and assisting with amicus briefs."
Gay rights groups expressed dismay with the poll results but said they doubted that a constitutional amendment would pass the initial stage through Congress.
"The Republican House leadership is having its own internal fight to determine what to do," said Winnie Stachelberg, political director of the Human Rights Campaign. 
"There is no consensus among conservatives, libertarians and Republicans," she said. "Many of them say they don't support marriage for same-sex couples, but to amend the Constitution for social issues is a very bad idea."
The last time the Constitution was amended for social purposes was in 1920, when alcohol was outlawed, but that prohibition was repealed in 1933.
Sanford Levinson, a constitutional expert at the University of Texas Law School in Austin, said it was extremely hard to amend the Constitution. If the ban on gay marriage passed the House and Senate, he said, opponents could stop it by getting the support of one house of the legislature in just 13 states.
Mr. Levinson said President Bush's support was "a free pass" because he probably knows how difficult it would be to get through Congress, let alone through 38 states.
"The idea is for Bush to throw red meat to the Republican right, secure in the knowledge that this is not going to go anywhere," he said. "If it did go anywhere, it would tear the Republican Party apart."
Even in an age when gay couples are routinely portrayed on television and constitute a prosperous demographic that advertisers have been overtly appealing to, the Times/CBS News poll found the country still sharply divided over homosexuality.
Half of the respondents said they viewed homosexual relations between adults as morally wrong. Moreover, an overwhelming majority, 87 percent, said they thought most people would not accept having same-sex couples married within their church, synagogue or place of worship. Sixty percent said they themselves would not accept such unions in their own places of worship.
"I want my children to grow up and be normal people like me and my father and my grandfather was," said Ziad Nimri, 41, a salesman and a Democrat who lives in Spokane, Wash. "I don't want my children to start getting ideas. They see it's out in the open and you see men kissing men on television these days."
Mr. Nimri said he was also worried that if gays were allowed to marry, they would get other rights too, like tax benefits. "Because they're a minority, they're going to start actually giving them more privileges than normal people would have," he said. "Minorities always tend to get more than your average person does."
One of the few people interviewed who was not opposed to legally recognized same-sex marriages was Cliff Martin, 47, an unemployed Democrat in Gainesville, Fla. "I think gays should be allowed to marry because it's not something that threatens other people," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Wednesday about an ABC television interview in which President Bush discussed a constitutional amendment on same-sex marriage quoted him incompletely. (The quotation was also incomplete in a front-page article on Sunday about a New York Times/CBS News poll showing widespread support for an amendment to ban same-sex marriage.) What the president said was, "If necessary, I will support a constitutional amendment which would honor marriage between a man and a woman, codify that." The Wednesday article, while omitting the words "if necessary" from the quotation, did specify them in a separate paragraph.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Views on Homosexuality and Gay Marriage" Homosexual relations between adults should be . . . TotalLEGAL: 41%NOT LEGAL: 49NO OPINION: 9 MenLEGAL: 40NOT LEGAL: 50NO OPINION: 10 WomenLEGAL: 43NOT LEGAL: 49NO OPINION: 8 18-29 years oldLEGAL: 58NOT LEGAL: 39NO OPINION: 3 30-44LEGAL: 43NOT LEGAL: 48NO OPINION: 9 45-64LEGAL: 38NOT LEGAL: 52NO OPINION:10 65 and olderLEGAL: 24NOT LEGAL: 61NO OPINION: 15 NortheastLEGAL: 43NOT LEGAL: 44NO OPINION: 12 North CentralLEGAL: 45NOT LEGAL: 47NO OPINION: 8 SouthLEGAL: 32NOT LEGAL: 59NO OPINION: 8 WestLEGAL: 49NOT LEGAL: 42NO OPINION: 8 RepublicanLEGAL: 34NOT LEGAL: 57NO OPINION: 9 DemocratLEGAL: 46NOT LEGAL: 46NO OPINION: 9 IndependentLEGAL: 44NOT LEGAL: 46NO OPINION: 9 White ProtestantLEGAL: 35NOT LEGAL: 56NO OPINION: 9 CatholicLEGAL: 46NOT LEGAL: 43NO OPINION: 11 Know a gay personLEGAL: 57NOT LEGAL: 35NO OPINION: 8 Do you favor or oppose a law allowing homosexuals to marry? TotalFAVOR: 34%OPPOSE: 61NO OPINION: 5 MenFAVOR: 30OPPOSE: 65NO OPINION: 5 WomenFAVOR: 38OPPOSE: 57NO OPINION: 5 18-19FAVOR: 56OPPOSE: 40NO OPINION: 4 30-44FAVOR: 34OPPOSE: 61NO OPINION: 4 45-64FAVOR: 30OPPOSE: 66NO OPINION: 5 65 and olderFAVOR: 14OPPOSE: 79NO OPINION: 7 NortheastFAVOR: 37OPPOSE: 56NO OPINION: 7 North CentralFAVOR: 34OPPOSE: 63NO OPINION: 3 SouthFAVOR: 29OPPOSE: 68NO OPINION: 9 WestFAVOR: 40OPPOSE: 53NO OPINION: 7 RepublicanFAVOR: 26OPPOSE: 71NO OPINION: 3 DemocratFAVOR: 39OPPOSE: 57NO OPINION: 4 IndependentFAVOR: 37OPPOSE: 58NO OPINION: 5 White ProtestantFAVOR: 26OPPOSE: 70NO OPINION: 4 CatholicFAVOR: 40OPPOSE: 56NO OPINION: 3 Know a gay personFAVOR: 49OPPOSE: 46NO OPINION: 5 Do you favor or oppose a constitutional amendment allowing marriage only between a man and a woman? TotalFAVOR: 55%OPPOSE: 40NO OPINION: 5 MenFAVOR: 57OPPOSE: 39NO OPINION: 5 WomenFAVOR: 54OPPOSE: 42NO OPINION: 4 18-29 years oldFAVOR: 44OPPOSE: 52NO OPINION: 4 30-44FAVOR: 56OPPOSE: 40NO OPINION: 4 45-64FAVOR: 55OPPOSE: 40NO OPINION: 5 65 and olderFAVOR: 69OPPOSE: 27NO OPINION: 4 NortheastFAVOR: 51OPPOSE: 44NO OPINION: 5 North CentralFAVOR: 55OPPOSE: 42NO OPINION: 3 SouthFAVOR: 63OPPOSE: 33NO OPINION: 4 WestFAVOR: 48OPPOSE: 46NO OPINION: 6 RepublicanFAVOR: 63OPPOSE: 33NO OPINION: 4 DemocratFAVOR: 52OPPOSE: 44NO OPINION: 3 IndependentFAVOR: 51OPPOSE: 43NO OPINION: 6 White ProtestantFAVOR: 60OPPOSE: 34NO OPINION: 6 CatholicFAVOR: 52OPPOSE: 44NO OPINION: 3 Know a Gay PersonFAVOR: 42OPPOSE: 54NO OPINION: 4 Totals may not add up to 100 because of rounding. Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted Dec. 10-13, 2003, with 1,057 adults. (pg. 39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (94%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (94%); GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); COHABITATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); VERDICTS (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%); RELIGION (69%); APPROVALS (60%) Marriages; Public Opinion; New York Times/cbs News Poll; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Women; Homosexuality; Constitutional Amendments; Marriages; Decisions and Verdicts; Marriages

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Katharine Q Seelye; Janet Elder; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Massachusetts; Northeastern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 #100T031224SL04A01# 



548 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: BackTalk; 
Baseball Makes A Mess in Milwaukee

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ZIMBALIST; Andrew Zimbalist, professor of economics at Smith College, is author of "May the Best Team Win: Baseball Economics and Public Policy."

 BODY:
Tommy G. Thompson played a key role in the building of Miller Park in Milwaukee with public money while he was governor of Wisconsin. Like many other residents of the state, he feels a bit jilted.
 "The Brewers made it clear that if we built a modern, state-of-the-art stadium, it would provide them with the resources to field a winning baseball team," Thompson, now the secretary of health and human services, said. "The Brewers need to put an end to the games. They need to invest in a winning team." 
 Other politicians are more outspoken. Referring to the family that owns the Brewers, State Senator Mike Ellis said, "The Seligs just scammed the living dickens out of the people of this state."
It was agreed in 1995 that a retractable-roof stadium would be built for the team. The stadium was ready for the 2001 season. When it opened, the Brewers had not won a divisional race for 19 years and had not had a winning season in eight years. Each of the three years in their new digs, the Brewers have had a substantially lower winning percentage than in any year from 1995 to 2000.
When the deal was hammered out, the stadium was to cost $250 million, with the Brewers contributing $90 million. The Brewers were to receive (and have received) all revenue from the stadium, even from events other than baseball.
The state's Legislative Audit Bureau reported that as of the end of 2001 the stadium's total cost rose to nearly $425 million. The Brewers' share stayed at $90 million, $41.1 million of which came from a 20-year naming-rights deal with the Miller Brewing Company. The balance appears to have been borrowed by the team, and $36 million of the associated team debt was canceled by the quasipublic Stadium District in September 2002.
The Stadium District was supposed to contribute $3.85 million a year toward maintenance and repairs, costs normally assumed by the team. For ending that obligation, the Brewers' debt to the district was extinguished. The upshot is that the Brewers appear to be contributing only about $13 million of their own funds to stadium construction, and the audit bureau is concerned that the ballpark may suffer from inadequate maintenance resources over the years.
Meanwhile, the Brewers' ownership has decided that the team cannot be competitive in the near term. The opening-day payroll was reduced from $52.7 million in 2002 to $40.6 million in 2003 and to a projected $30 million for 2004. (The Brewers have dumped the salaries of seven of their higher-paid players from last season.) Fans want to know what happened to the promise of a competitive team.
Fans might also want to know what the Brewers are doing with their revenue-sharing money from Major League Baseball. During the labor negotiations, Bud Selig, who put his 30 percent interest in the Brewers in a blind trust after becoming commissioner in 1998, reportedly insisted that the new agreement restructure the revenue-sharing plan so that the third quartile of teams receive a proportionately larger benefit than the bottom quartile.
His family's Brewers just happen to be in the third quartile and just happen to have increased their net revenue-sharing receipts by more than any other team. It rose from $1.5 million in 2001 to $9.1 million in 2002 to an estimated $18 million in 2003, according to a financial analysis the Brewers provided to potential investors in July.
The labor agreement is clear that each club must use its receipts "in an effort to improve its performance on the field" and that the commissioner "shall enforce this obligation." Thus, the Brewers appear to be violating their covenants with the people of Wisconsin and with the players' union, as the commissioner seems to be idly standing by.
Do the Brewers have a defense? First, we have heard that the team is loaded with $110 million in debt. True enough, but this is about the average debt level for a major league team. Much of this debt appears to be from the stadium. (The naming rights are paid over 20 years, so some of the team's share had to be financed.) That is, this debt is the product of an investment, not a bleeding income statement. Indeed, the Brewers' own financial analysis shows a $20.24 million operating profit for their three years in Miller Park.
Some additional debt may have been taken on when the 29 teams bought the Montreal Expos two years ago for $120 million. This is also an investment that should yield healthy returns when the Expos are sold.
Second, the Brewers will say that they are rebuilding and that all teams go in a cycle. Never mind that the team has been rebuilding for 11 years and never mind that General Manager Doug Melvin says they want to emulate Minnesota (a team Selig tried to eliminate three years ago and whose opening-day payroll grew from $40.2 million in 2002 to $55.6 million in 2003). The real point is that the team can be developing its minor league talent at the same time that it acquires new major league talent.
The team needs pitching and a right fielder; many promising young players have been available at a range of prices this off-season, but the Brewers haven't shown any interest. If a new stadium is to be successful in generating revenue, the product on the playing field must be attractive. By refusing to invest in today's team, the Brewers are squandering the rich revenue opportunities of a new stadium as well as breaking the bonds of trust with their fans.
And if the Brewers were really sacrificing 2004 to be strong in 2005 and 2006, why do their projections for payroll and player development expenditures remain flat from 2004 through 2006? Something here doesn't compute.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Before Miller Park was built, the Brewers promised a competitive ball club. They have since cut their payroll, and have actually done worse in the standings. (Photo by Associated Press);Bud Selig's decisions as commissioner directly affect the team his family runs. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); SPORTS FANS (76%); SPORTS REVENUES (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); AUDITS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%) Baseball; Stadiums and Arenas; Finances

COMPANY: MILLER BREWING CO (65%)

ORGANIZATION: MILWAUKEE BREWERS (94%) Milwaukee Brewers

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (65%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (65%)

PERSON: TOMMY THOMPSON (74%) Andrew Zimbalist

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



549 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Contributions Are Lagging While Economy Improves

BYLINE:  By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
More than nine decades since its inception, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund is in the midst of another year of extraordinary need, one that has inspired more than $4.4 million in giving since early November. But seven weeks into the fund's annual campaign, the flow of donations to the seven local charities supported by the fund has been lagging, despite the stirrings of an economic recovery in New York City and elsewhere.
 In 2003, the need for the aid and comfort provided by the Neediest Cases Fund has not diminished. 
 Despite a post-9/11 recovery, poverty figures remain staggering. A recent report released by one of the seven charities, the Community Service Society, noted that one of every five New York City residents, or 1.7 million people, could be considered poor (having an annual income of less than $18,400 for a family of four), compared with one of every eight people nationwide. 
For those living under such constraints, even the smallest setback can have a devastating effect. One month's rent unpaid can turn into falling two or three months behind, then eviction. Unpaid utility bills can leave people in the dark and the cold, without lights or a phone. 
Throughout its history, the Neediest Cases Fund has responded to these kinds of personal crises. By telling the stories of struggling New Yorkers -- people grappling with homelessness and hunger, catastrophic illness and family turmoil -- the fund has inspired acts of generosity and compassion.
Donors, from New York and nationwide, are the lifeline connecting people in need to the array of services provided by the fund's charities. But as of Thursday, donations were about 9 percent behind where they were at the same point in last year's campaign. The number of donors was off, too, by 19 percent. At this pace, the fund will be greatly behind last year's total when the campaign concludes at the end of January.
"We find this startling in a season of unusual need," said Jack Rosenthal, president of The New York Times Company Foundation, which administers the fund. He said he hoped that giving would pick up amid the spirit of the holiday season.
The lag in donations underscores the generosity of those who have given thus far. Among the notable contributions, one represented anunexpected first. The Neediest Cases Fund received a $5,000 donation from the Children's Aid Society, itself another of the seven charities that benefit from the fund's campaign. 
"We are aware, the staff and the board, of how important the campaign is and how it has helped the Children's Aid Society," said Philip Coltoff, the society's chief executive. 
Through the agency's payroll-deduction plan, employees earmarked contributions, he said. "Staff members had the option of giving to Children's Aid directly," he said. "We wanted to support the work of the other charitable institutions. It is a very good feeling to be a giver and recipient at the same time." 
For recipients of Neediest Cases money, like Lavador Campbell, the support offers hope in hard times.
Ms. Campbell, 39, was profiled earlier in this year's campaign. She adopted her 9-year-old niece, Nadia Garrett, after Nadia's parents were jailed for separate offenses. That added to the financial stress of Ms. Campbell, who already had a five-member household. But Children's Aid helped her, asking the Neediest Cases Fund to assist with rent and other needs, like winter clothing. 
"It was like hitting the lottery," Ms. Campbell said. "I don't know what I would have done."
There have been other acts of kindness, and many other donations. For the third consecutive year, the Starr Foundation, a private nonprofit group associated with the insurer American International Group, gave $1 million, the largest amount given by one organization. "This is an immense act, a generosity that is greatly appreciated," Mr. Rosenthal said. 
Individuals have given, too. A contribution of $10 was sent by one 9-year-old girl; larger sums from families and individuals across the country have also been received.
One Ohio family, the Highs, sent $500. Shirley High said she knew she wanted to support the Neediest Cases Fund after reading about a homeless family's struggle. "It is hard to find an organization that you can really trust," she said. "By reading the stories, you know the money is going where it should go." 
Ms. High said she was happy to know that all donations go directly to help the poor and that the fund pays all administrative costs. "I wish I could do more," she said.

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $4,464,418.73
Recorded Thursday: 1,500.00
Total: $4,465,918.73
Last year to date: $4,890,782.78

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lavador Campbell adopted her niece, Nadia Garrett, 9, after Nadia's parents were jailed. The Neediest Cases Fund helped her pay rent. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); FAMILY (76%); EVICTION (74%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (71%); POWER FAILURES (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); POVERTY RATES (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Children's Aid Society; Starr Foundation

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%)

PERSON: Kari Haskell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



550 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Libya's 'Brother Leader' Pulls Yet Another Rabbit Out of His Hat 

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: CAIRO, Dec. 20 

 BODY:
Not long after Libya's official news agency transmitted the unexpected announcement from the Foreign Ministry that the country had agreed to divest itself of a varied arsenal of unconventional weapons, the agency carried a second bulletin quoting Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi applauding the idea. 
 Noting that it was a "wise decision and brave step," Colonel Qaddafi, the man who has run Libya for the past 34 years, concluded that "Libya will now play its international role in building a new world free from weapons of mass destruction and all kinds of terrorism." 
 The announcement of course reflects Colonel Qaddafi's conceit that the people actually run Libya, and Brother Leader, as he is known officially, merely acts as a kind of guide and cheerleader. 
But Arab analysts and Libyan exiles said Saturday that the real inspiration behind the measure was to ensure that Colonel Qaddafi's absolute grip was not weakened. Having seen the handwriting on the wall with the fate of Saddam Hussein, and having failed after an effort of almost a decade to return himself to the West's good graces, the long ostracized, infamously eccentric Libyan leader unveiled one of his splashy measures to try to ensure that he does not suffer a similar fate. 
"The Americans seem to want to make an example of Mr. Qaddafi as a rogue leader who has repented," said Ashur Shamis, a Libyan exile in England. "He is playing along because what he is concerned about is to remain in power."
Colonel Qaddafi, 61, probably will also introduce some cosmetic domestic political reforms because the United States has been talking about that too, Mr. Shamis and other analysts said.
They are less convinced that the promised destruction of the weapons will have any meaningful impact. After more than a decade under international sanctions, not to mention more than 30 years of purging the ranks of educated Libyans, few Arab analysts believe that Libya had the ability to build nuclear, biological or chemical weapons. 
"With all these problems Libya could not produce a scientific community that could build the complex systems needed for nuclear or chemical weapons," said Hassan Abu Taleb of the Al Ahram Center for Strategic and International Studies in Cairo. He added that it was also doubtful that they could have bought such weapons abroad and maintained them, given international sanctions. He said the Libyan announcement was more like a public relations gesture. 
"The Libyans did that in coordination with the U.S. and Britain as a step to convince them to lift the boycott against Libya," Mr. Abu Taleb said, adding that he doubted that the measure would be considered sufficient by Washington. 
Officials reached in Libya by telephone on Saturday said they had nothing to add to the statement released by the government a day earlier. But the Libyan foreign minister, Mohammed Abdelrahman Shalqam, speaking on Al Jazeera satellite network, said that his government expected to be rewarded for its actions. 
"We want to have ties with America and Britain because this is in the interests of our people," he said. "We want to solve all the problems and focus on development." 
He avoided a question about the next step, however, saying "We have completed everything, there are no steps left."
In Cairo, the Egyptian foreign minister, Ahmed Maher, suggested that another country with similar weapons should mirror Libya's action. It was a pointed reference to Israel. 
Throughout his tumultuous years as one of the world's least predictable leaders, Colonel Qaddafi's one bankable quality has remained his ability to keep himself in the limelight. 
In the Arab world, however, there is a curious phenomenon that affects most Arab leaders when they are asked questions about Libya, or when Libyan officials raise one of their leader's zany proposals. Senior officials, even foreign ministers, start to giggle. 
At the 2002 Arab summit meeting in Beirut, Lebanon, for example, the Libyan foreign minister rose and angrily demanded to know why Crown Prince Abdullah's initiative toward normalization of relations with Israel was being given such enormous attention. He pointed out that Colonel Qaddafi had proposed a year earlier at an Arab summit meeting in Amman, Jordan, that Israel and Palestine be combined into one country "Isratine," and that the new country be admitted to the Arab League, but that the Libyan leader's proposal was ignored. 
The question was deflected to the Jordanians, whose delegation was laughing so openly by the time he finished asking the question that the Libyan official demanded to know what was so funny. 
Of course, such exchanges do not always end diplomatically. At this year's summit meeting, Crown Prince Abdullah and Colonel Qaddafi traded angry insults as to which country was a colonial lackey of the West. Dismayed with being treated like an eccentric cousin among his fellow Arabs, Colonel Qaddafi has been wooing African leaders in recent years with similar results -- they drain his treasury while mostly ignoring his ideas. 
The Libyan leader has been on the outs with the West almost since he seized power at age 27 with a bloodless coup in 1969 that overthrew King Idris. He ordered the closure of American and British military bases and led the Arab effort to boycott oil sales to the United States to punish it for its support for Israel in the 1973 Middle East war. 
As he grew more militant, his confrontation with the West grew more serious. After blaming Libya for bombing a Berlin discotheque in 1986, in which one American serviceman died, the United States staged an air raid against Libya, bombing Colonel Qaddafi's palace. Libya said that his adopted daughter was among the 37 people reported killed. 
United Nations sanctions were imposed after the 1988 bombing of a Pan American World Airways jet over Lockerbie, Scotland, which killed 270 people. A Libyan agent was convicted in that bombing and Libya has also been blamed for the downing of a French airliner that blew up over Africa in 1989. 
When the United States and Libya negotiated a deal whereby Libya would pay $2.7 billion in compensation to the relatives of the Lockerbie victims, the United Nations lifted sanctions. But the United States has yet to lift its own sanctions, mostly due to opposition from the Lockerbie victims' relatives. 
Libya seeks to resume ties with the United States, not least to gain outside investment and expertise in expanding its crucial oil industry. 
Domestically, Libyan exiles say the pressure from outside has already led to the release of 700 to 800 political prisoners over the past couple of years, but a similar number remain behind bars. 
"The regime still insists that Qaddafi's ideas and Qaddafi's thoughts are the only ideas that the Libyan system can be rebuilt on," said Mr. Shamis, the exile. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (85%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ARMS TRADE (77%); DISARMAMENT (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); TERRORISM (70%); BOYCOTTS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%) Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Arms Sales Abroad; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) Neil Macfarquhar; Muammar El- (Col) Qaddafi; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (71%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%); IRAQ (79%); EGYPT (71%) Libya; Iraq; Libya

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



551 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Secret Diplomacy Won Libyan Pledge on Arms 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER and JAMES RISEN; Patrick E. Tyler reported from London for this article and James Risen from Washington.

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 20 

 BODY:
Libya's surprise declaration giving up its nuclear, biological and chemical weapons was the culmination of a week of intense negotiations that followed months of secret diplomacy, officials in London and Washington said Saturday.
 Since an opening gambit by Libya in March, they said, there were a series of clandestine meetings in Tripoli between the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, and experts from the C.I.A., as well as visits to at least 10 sites in Libya by British and American weapons experts. 
 Colonel Qaddafi personally drove his own subordinates to cooperate with the C.I.A.'s review of Libya's illicit weapons programs, United States intelligence officials said. 
"During meetings with Colonel Qaddafi, he was consistent throughout with his desire to proceed with the admissions and elimination of his weapons program," one intelligence official said. "He knew what he wanted to do, and he had a message to pass back to both Washington and London. Our meetings were usually late at night, but in each case he had done his homework, and was quite generous with his time."
The negotiations hit high speed in the last week. Prime Minister Tony Blair had his first ever telephone conversation with Colonel Qaddafi on Thursday, an aide said. Sir Nigel Sheinwald, Mr. Blair's national security adviser, and Condoleezza Rice, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, spoke with Libyan officials throughout the week, British and American officials said. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell was on the phone with the British foreign secretary, Jack Straw, from Mr. Powell's hospital bed at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, where he was recovering from prostate surgery, a State Department official said.
The effort's roots lay in the final phase of the five years of talks over the United Nations sanctions against Libya imposed after the bombing in 1988 of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, British and American officials said. The United Nations lifted its sanctions after Libya acknowledged responsibility for the bombing and offered about $10 million in compensation for each of the 270 victims. But Libya said full payment would come only after all international sanctions were lifted. 
Congress and the Bush administration, however, said sanctions would be maintained until Libya gave up its illicit weapons programs and links to terrorist organizations. That position, American and British officials said, forced Libya, economically crippled and desperate for the return of foreign oil companies, to consider the new concessions. 
A State Department official said Libya felt an urgency to act because of the American stances on Iran and North Korea and the war in Iraq. An intelligence official said Colonel Qaddafi was also concerned about the threat to his government from militant elements in the country. 
British and American officials said Friday that the initial approach was made by Libya in March, just before the war. A spokesman for Mr. Blair said Saturday that Libya's chief of intelligence, Musa Kussa, contacted the British government. 
Mr. Kussa has spent several years seeking diplomatic pathways to break the United States economic embargo. He and other Libyan officials carried on secret discussions with British and American intelligence that at times have involved the former South African president Nelson Mandela; Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi ambassador to the United States; and other Arab diplomats. The negotiations hinged on how strong a commitment to breaking with Libya's past Colonel Qaddafi was willing to make in a public statement, given the criticism it would probably arouse in parts of the Arab world, officials in London said. 
A strong declaration was crucial, said a British official who briefed reporters here said Saturday, after discoveries by teams of American and British experts who spent three weeks inspecting dozens of Libyan laboratories and military factories in October and early December. They found that Libyan scientists were "developing a nuclear fuel cycle intended to support nuclear weapons development," a British official said. "Libya had not acquired a nuclear weapons capability, though it was close to developing one." 
For the teams of C.I.A. experts, the ability to walk through the chemical and nuclear weapons facilities was a stunning experience. 
"It wasn't the individual things we were shown that we were blown away by," said one official involved in the review, but "the extent to which we were given access." The C.I.A. teams visited dozens of sites, including the 10 involved in the nuclear program, and interviewed Libyan scientists. 
"One of our most senior analysts said this was the most extraordinary disclosure in his 30 years of doing this," one official said.
Though the country's uranium-enrichment capabilities were further along that expected, the intelligence officials said that much of what the C.I.A. saw confirmed its analysts' projections, which they hailed as a vindication of the agency's ability to monitor weapons programs around the world. That ability has been called into question by the failure of the American hunt for weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. 
Intelligence officials said that after the October visit, the Libyans became convinced that much was known about the weapons programs. As a result, they said, the December visit was even more productive because the Libyans were more open. 
Libya revealed chemical weapon stockpiles, the existence of precursor materials used to develop other nerve agents, and a fledgling nuclear weapons program, complete with centrifuges to enrich uranium for weapons fuel. The discoveries raised the question of what nations had supplied components like centrifuges, which intelligence officials said have not been assembled in the "cascade" necessary to begin weapons-grade fuel production. The officials said Libya has obtained long-range Scud C-type missiles, with a range of 500 miles, from North Korea. 
The experts found tens of tons of mustard gas, a chemical weapon first used in World War I, that had been produced about a decade ago, American officials said. The gas was accompanied by hundreds of aerial bombs that could be used to deliver it.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Libyan Meets Nuclear Regulator
VIENNA, Dec. 20 (Reuters) -- The director of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Dr. Mohamed ElBaradei, met a senior Libyan official on Saturday in Vienna to discuss the elimination of Tripoli's unconventional weapons program. "Dr. ElBaradei met with Libya's secretary of the National Board of Scientific Research to discuss the Libyan government's desire to eliminate its weapons of mass destruction program," said an agency spokesman.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi has controlled Libya for 34 years, but the country has suffered from economic penalties leveled against it by the United States. He has been seeking to restore economic and trade ties. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)(pg. 30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); BOMBINGS (86%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); HEALTH CARE (69%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (69%); AIRLINES (67%); TERRORISM (67%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (65%); KOREAN WAR (64%); IRAQ WAR (62%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (61%); PROSTATE DISEASE (51%) Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Airlines and Airplanes; Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) Central Intelligence Agency; United Nations; Pan American World Airways

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (75%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); JACK STRAW (57%) Patrick E Tyler; James Risen; Muammar El- (Col) Qaddafi

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (74%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SCOTLAND (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%) Libya; Great Britain; Libya; Lockerbie (Scotland); Libya

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



552 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 ELECTION: PUBLIC SCHOOLS; 
Gephardt Proposes Program To Add Teachers and Schools

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: HENNIKER, N. H., Dec. 20 

 BODY:
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri accused President Bush on Saturday of turning his back on public schools and promised to expand the ranks of teachers, build schools and increase financing for preschool and after-school programs.
 One of the main elements of Mr. Gephardt's plan to revitalize public schools is a teacher corps, modeled on the Reserve Officers Training Corps, that would provide college aid to 2.5 million students by the end of the decade in return for a commitment to teach for five years. He estimated that the teacher program would cost $4 billion dollars a year. He also vowed the biggest increase in school construction since the Great Depression. 
 "It's no wonder parents are losing hope in public schools if we are unable to offer modern classrooms filled with life, light, and enough teachers so every child can learn," Mr. Gephardt said in a speech at New England College here.
"My goal is to build more new schools than any president since Franklin Roosevelt and to renovate more classrooms than all the presidents combined," said Mr. Gephardt, who often discusses education during campaign stops. "Jimmy Carter is known, among many things, for raising houses. My presidency will be known for raising chalkboards."
Mr. Gephardt, one of nine Democrats seeking the party's presidential nomination, spoke as he swung across this state in a bid to increase his lagging support here. Howard Dean, the former governor of neighboring Vermont, leads handily in the latest local poll, published on Saturday in The Concord Monitor, while Mr. Gephardt is in sixth place. He is counting on a victory in the Jan. 19 Iowa caucuses, the first of the Democratic nominating contests, to propel him to second or third place in the New Hampshire primary on Jan. 27.
Mr. Gephardt acknowledged that his teacher program would be costly and said he was counting on an improving economy and the tightening of corporate tax loopholes to help cover costs. He said he would provide tax incentives for school construction and called for corporate support of low-income school districts.
"My initial thrust will be to get the economy going," Mr. Gephardt said after the speech. "Then we can make some of these investments."
After spending much of the week criticizing Dr. Dean, his principal rival in Iowa, Mr. Gephardt focused his attacks on Mr. Bush on Saturday. He accused the president of needlessly cutting financing for teacher training, bilingual education, school construction and after-school programs.
But Mr. Gephardt saved his harshest criticism for Mr. Bush's handling of the landmark education law, the No Child Left Behind Act, which the president signed into law nearly two years ago.
Mr. Gephardt initially supported the measure, which requires annual testing of children in third through eighth grades and greatly enlarged the federal role in public education. But he and other Congressional Democrats have become increasingly frustrated with the law because the Bush administration has not provided full financing for it. The White House asked for $12 billion to continue financing it next year, $6 billion less than the legislation authorizes.
White House officials have said that education spending has risen under the Bush administration and argue that the government's budget deficit would skyrocket if the White House asked that all bills be financed to the limits allowed by law. But Mr. Gephardt accused Mr. Bush of gutting the program to push people into private schools.
"George Bush is deliberately setting up public schools to fail so he can say there is no choice but to take money from public schools," he said. "If George Bush truly believed in his Leave No Child Behind law, then he'd provide the funding to pay for it, rather than wasting the money on tax breaks for the wealthy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CHILD CARE (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); ELECTIONS (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); MULTILINGUALISM (71%); CAUCUSES (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); TAX LAW (66%); GOVERNORS (65%); LEGISLATION (62%); TAX INCENTIVES (61%) Education and Schools; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Primaries; Teachers and School Employees; Education (Pre-School)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JIMMY CARTER (58%) Rachel L Swarns; Richard A (Rep) Gephardt; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



553 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Easing Iraq's Debt Burdens 

 BODY:
James Baker III is quickly showing how old-fashioned diplomacy can advance Washington's policy objectives. In his first trip as President Bush's Iraqi debt negotiator, Mr. Baker met with five European leaders and emerged with declarations endorsing a substantial write-off of the $40 billion in old loans and accrued interest that Baghdad owes major developed countries. The five countries Mr. Baker visited, together with the United States, account for roughly $25 billion of those obligations. That's only a start -- Iraq's overall debt amounts to $120 billion -- but it's an important one. 
 Mr. Baker's itinerary included France, Germany and Russia, the most prominent European critics of the American-led invasion of Iraq, as well as Britain and Italy. His successful meetings in Paris and Berlin led to the most unified declaration on Iraq since last winter's damaging split in the Security Council. The Moscow session was less rewarding, with President Vladimir Putin linking support for debt relief to compensation for Russian companies that had contracts with Saddam Hussein. 
 The leaders of France and Germany were already looking for politically feasible ways to work with Washington on Iraq. Mr. Baker also benefited from the good reputation he enjoys in both countries, dating back to his role as secretary of state in the first Bush administration, when deft and sensitive American diplomacy helped manage the consequences of the collapse of the Soviet Union. That record stands in painful contrast to the current administration's gratuitous alienation of much of Europe, most recently through a Pentagon memo excluding France, Germany, Russia and other opponents of the war from Iraqi reconstruction contracts financed by American tax dollars. Releasing that memo on the eve of Mr. Baker's European trip was inept. Fortunately, it did not prevent French and German cooperation on debt relief for Iraq. 
Debt forgiveness is a drastic step that should be undertaken only in rare cases, lest it dry up future international credit. Iraq is not the only country with more debts than it can pay, nor is it the only one left holding the i.o.u.'s of a toppled dictator. The closest parallel is Nigeria, which is also struggling to build democracy and should eventually be given debt relief. Right now, however, the most compelling and important candidate is Iraq.
Despite Mr. Baker's successes, the countries involved have agreed so far only on the principle of debt reduction, with details still to be worked out on how much to forgive and when. Those decisions should be made quickly and generously, so debt relief can take effect as soon as Iraq regains its sovereignty next summer. Baghdad's numerous other creditors should also grant substantial relief.
Most government lending to Iraq took place before Saddam Hussein's 1990 invasion of Kuwait. The largest loans came from wealthy Persian Gulf countries helping to finance Iraq's war with Iran in the 1980's. These countries have not yet offered any debt relief. Billions more are owed to commercial banks and corporate creditors, which are likely to take part in a separate renegotiation. On top of the roughly $120 billion on its overdue loans, Iraq faces probably another $100 billion in reparations payments for the Kuwait invasion once all pending claims are adjudicated. 
Combined, that amounts to more than eight times Iraq's gross domestic product of $26 billion a year, obviously an unsustainable burden. While everyone knows that these obligations will never be paid in full, until they are formally written down they will cast a huge shadow over Iraq's ability to attract foreign aid and private investment. If billions of dollars have to be paid out each year for debt service and reparations, punitive taxes will have to be levied on businesses and the government will have little left for needed social services. Lifting a substantial part of this burden would let Baghdad spend more of its future oil income on domestic needs, reducing the aid needed from American taxpayers and improving Iraq's chances of becoming a self-sustaining democracy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) United States International Relations; Editorials; Finances; Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) James A III Baker

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) INDIAN OCEAN (50%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GERMANY (90%); NIGERIA (79%); ITALY (79%); KUWAIT (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); GULF STATES (78%) Iraq; Europe

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2003 



554 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: New Snowmobile Rules Roil Yellowstone 

BYLINE:  By JIM ROBBINS

DATELINE: WEST YELLOWSTONE, Mont., Dec. 19 

 BODY:
Snowmobiles still putter up to the western gateway of Yellowstone National Park here, their riders heavily swathed in the near-zero temperatures, ready to pay $15 to enter what the local Chamber of Commerce calls "our winter wonderland." 
 Unless the snowmobilers are with a guide, however, they are now told they cannot drive into the white-blanketed wilderness of Yellowstone. The park's snowmobile policy changed on Tuesday night, when a federal judge in Washington overturned rules established by the National Park Service under the Bush administration and returned the park to more restrictive rules established under the Clinton administration. 
 The ruling, hours before the park opened for winter use on Wednesday morning, had the effect of reducing the number of snowmobiles allowed in Yellowstone to 493 a day from 950. All snowmobilers must now enter with a private guide trained by the Park Service, and groups can be no larger than 11. 
Under the Bush administration rules, 80 percent of the snowmobilers were required to have a guide, and 20 percent could enter individually or in small groups with minimal training, which can be gained on the Internet.
Park Service officials said this week that they were scrambling to help visitors find alternatives to entering the park on their own. 
"We're doing everything we can to help people find a guide or a snow coach," Brian Suderman, a spokesman for the park, said, referring to a vehicle that is a kind of tour bus with skis on front and a tread in the back. "We don't want people not to visit the park." 
The ruling has roiled the tourist economy in this village of about 1,100 people just outside the park.
"It's out of control here," said Jerry Johnson, mayor of this self-proclaimed snowmobile capital of the world, as well as a snowmobile outfitter, motel owner and photographer. "People are frantic not to have their vacation ruined." 
J. C. Sumner, a retired sheriff's deputy from Jacksonville, Fla., was one of the visitors trying to salvage his trip. Mr. Sumner came here for a snowmobiling vacation with eight family members. They planned months ago to rent snowmobiles and drive on their own to watch Old Faithful erupt. But when they arrived in Bozeman, Mont., on Thursday they found out about the judge's order and had to scurry to hire a guide, who offered more expensive snowmobiles, at an additional cost of $60 per person per day, for two days.
"I think it stinks," Mr. Sumner said. "It's bad for business, it's bad for tourists, and it borders on being unethical." 
It was a similar story all over this town, which has as many snowmobiles on the street as cars. While the big season here is summer, winter has been growing in importance.
After the court ruling on Tuesday, many people canceled their trips, and at least 20 people have been laid off by local businesses, Mayor Johnson said. Some businesses say they will not open for the winter now, and for many of those that do, the outlook for the week after Christmas, normally one of busiest of the year, appears bleak. 
"It's the minijackpot that we wait all fall for," said Randy Roberson, owner of Yellowstone Vacations, which has 100 snowmobiles but has been able to rent only a handful. "Now all of the headlines have ruined it." 
Officials at Xanterra Parks and Resorts, which owns many of the concessions in and around the park, estimate that 6,000 people who planned to come in on snowmobiles by themselves are changing their plans, either by finding a guide, booking a trip on a snow coach or simply canceling. 
"So far we have lost about a hundred room nights in the winter season" to cancellations, said Jim McCaleb, general manager for Xanterra. "It's ironic because this is one of the best winters for snow conditions for six or eight years." 
Some people, however, feel that even the more restrictive rules do not go far enough.
"I would like to see snowmobiles eliminated from the park completely," said Cynthia Lawson, a cross-country skier from Bozeman. "Our parks are an absolute treasure, and to have these disgusting machines is terrible." 
This is the first year that the number of snowmobiles in the park have been regulated. But until the judge's ruling, it was the Bush administration's rules that were to have been the first enforced. 
Previously, the number of snowmobilers in the park averaged 840 a day, but went as high as 1,650 on some holidays. Last year, on some days here, at the busiest snowmobile entrance to the park the air pollution was so bad that park employees wore respirators.
Under the Bush rules, many of the most polluting machines were being phased out and replaced with cleaner-burning equipment. But the Clinton rules do not require the less-polluting machines because they were drawn up before the improved technology was available. 
For years it has been a priority for environmentalists to reduce the number of snowmobiles allowed in the park or eliminate them. 
"Years of study show they have detrimental effects on wildlife in winter," said Tony Jewett, the senior director for the Northern Rockies Office of the National Parks and Conservation Association in Helena, Mont., one of the those that filed the suit. "They're harmful to park employees because they pollute, they are noisy, and for other users they compromise the experience of the silence and solitude, which are hallmarks of the winter landscape in Yellowstone." 
Under the Clinton administration, the National Park Service conducted a three-year study in the 1990's and came up with the plan to phase out snowmobiles starting in 2000, with a complete ban set for 2003. The Bush administration supplanted the Clinton phaseout plan. 
But if the ruling by the judge, Emmet Sullivan, stands, it will mean that the ban on snowmobiles will go into effect in 2005. There would be reduction of snowmobiles in the park under the Bush plan.
The sudden shift has some public officials around the region fuming and the legal papers flying. 
"The ruling was legally and factually erroneous," said Pat Crank, the Wyoming attorney general, who filed a notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and filed a motion asking Judge Sullivan to stay his ruling.
But environmentalists say that snowmobiles are simply incompatible with the park and that the sooner change occurs, the better. 
"A snow coach should be the primary vehicle for entry," Mr. Jewett said. "They are less polluting, and they are warm."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jerry Johnson, above right, the mayor of West Yellowstone, Mont., said that after a court decision changed Yellowstone National Park's snowmobile rules, many visitors canceled their trips. A guide shows paperwork to a ranger as he prepares to lead a group into the park. (Photographs by Lynn Donaldson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); SNOWMOBILING (91%); NATIONAL PARKS (91%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); JUDGES (76%); SKIING (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); MAYORS (68%); SHERIFFS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (73%) MONTANA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003 



555 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Election Win Seems Assured for Guinean Leader, but His Nation's Fate Is Far From Certain 

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: DAKAR, Senegal, Dec. 21 

 BODY:
Voters turned out on Sunday to elect a president in the American-allied West African country of Guinea. But there was little doubt of the outcome.
 The ailing incumbent, Lansana Conte, in office since seizing power in a coup in 1984, was widely expected to win. Turnout was light, according to news agency reports from the capital, Conakry. The principal opposition parties boycotted the polls after accusations of vote-rigging, and the only other name on the ballot was a little-known challenger from a marginal political party. 
 So assured was Mr. Conte's victory, apparently, that he rarely campaigned in public in recent months, skipping even his final election rally on Thursday.
What is less clear than the outcome of the presidential election -- and a great deal more troubling -- is the fate of Guinea itself.
Mr. Conte's ill health -- he suffers from acute diabetes, but it is a subject that most Guineans are too fearful to discuss openly -- has raised fears about the prospects of instability after his departure.
A report released Friday by a research and advocacy organization, the International Crisis Group, described the political landscape as being in "a state of alarming uncertainty," citing the potential for a future military coup and armed movements fed by experienced, unemployed veterans of West Africa's recent wars.
"The large number of weapons and irregular combatants circulating in this region is one of the principal elements of concern," the report warned. 
"These armed groups with their unpredictable allegiances could serve the interests of politico-military elites who seek to create disorder and/or to take power by force."
The United States regards Mr. Conte as a bulwark against spreading instability in the region. Washington has continued to reward his government with military aid, in spite of widespread allegations of human rights abuses.
Guinea is rife with the ills common to the rest of the region. 
Its military appears to be divided. There are ethnic rivalries, that so far have been kept in check by the government. Conflicts in neighboring Liberia, Sierra Leone and Ivory Coast have burdened Guinea with waves of refugees from across the region -- ripe targets, analysts say, for recruitment into future conflicts. 
Despite its desperate poverty, the country is a trove of natural resources: gold, diamonds and a third of the world's reserves of bauxite, the mineral used to produce aluminum. But this may be a mixed blessing because the scramble for control of natural resources has been a driving factor behind civil wars in the region.
The Guinean government has made no secret of its political support for the Liberian guerrilla group known as Liberians United for Reconciliation and Democracy. A recent report by Human Rights Watch accused Guinea of providing more than moral support, saying that it had supplied mortars to the Liberian rebels for use in attacks on the Liberian capital, Monrovia, in July. Guinea denied the charge.
Neither the European Union nor any American groups have sent election observers to Guinea for the presidential vote. Officials with the regional bloc known as the Economic Community of West African States said recently that Guinea had not welcomed their efforts to inspect its election procedures.
Mr. Conte won elections in 1993 and 1998. Opposition groups took part in those elections but complained later of widespread vote-rigging.
In 2001, the Guinean Constitution was changed to allow Mr. Conte to seek a third term. The presidential term was lengthened to seven years from five.
Agence France-Presse reported that state television showed Mr. Conte casting his ballot on Sunday without so much as stepping out of his vehicle. 
"I hope that everything goes well, in good conditions and that Guineans manage to express themselves," he said, according to that report.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Guinean woman passed a polling station yesterday in Conakry, the capital, during the presidential election. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); BOYCOTTS (71%); CIVIL WAR (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (67%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); ARMED FORCES (65%); NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); REFUGEES (64%); DIABETES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRISIS GROUP (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAKAR, SENEGAL (54%) GUINEA (99%); LIBERIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (93%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); SENEGAL (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003 



556 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
For a Few Dollars Less, TV Making Moves Abroad

BYLINE:  By ERIC A. TAUB 

 BODY:
The future of television production, like that of many other consumer goods, lies largely in low-cost areas of Asia, especially China. Last month, Thomson, the French electronics company that sells televisions under the RCA brand in the United States, entered into a joint venture with TCL International Holdings of China to form the world's largest maker of TV's, with an expected annual production of 18 million sets. 
 The number of televisions with screens 20 inches or larger exported from China to the United States has soared to an estimated 2 million sets this year from less than 16,000 sets in 2000. According to industry experts, only about 1.5 million of the 32 million sets sold in the United States annually are made here; the rest come mainly from Mexico and Asia. 
 Labor accounts for about 15 percent of the cost of making televisions, but China's lower wages can still save a few dollars per set for manufacturers facing ever more intense price competition. 
"This is the start of a big consolidation phase in the industry," said Chris Chinnock, senior analyst at Insight Media, a television research firm based in Connecticut. "We're seeing a change in the market because the cost of manufacturing standard TV's must come down."
For Thomson --which has a bigger share of its business than some rivals in standard TV's, rather than large-screen digital models -- times are tough. The company sells 7.2 million sets a year, but high sales volume does not make the business profitable, according to company executives. "Continuing price cuts and research and development costs are some of the reasons why we can't make a profit operating alone," said Mike O'Hara, Thomson's executive vice president for worldwide consumer product marketing and sales. 
While other television makers, like Philips, the electronics giant based in the Netherlands, have generally outsourced production of high-volume products to overseas contractors, Thomson chose instead to create a separate, jointly owned company with TCL. Its belief was that having an ownership stake in a Chinese production company would allow it to cut costs, increase its market share around the world and put it in a better position to enforce its intellectual property rights in China. 
"With this venture with TCL, we are showing that Thomson wants to actually be in the TV manufacturing business," Mr. O'Hara said. "This is a much more beneficial arrangement for us than just finding a subcontractor." TCL, which makes televisions for companies like Philips, is also working to extend its own brand to Asian markets outside of China. 
Under the terms of the arrangement, Thomson will be the minority partner, owning 33 percent of the new venture, TCL-Thomson Electronics. The two companies intend to take the new company public eventually, at which time TCL's ownership will be reduced to 40 percent and Thomson's to 30 percent. 
Ownership of Thomson and TCL's television and DVD manufacturing plants in Asia, Europe and Mexico will pass to the new venture, but Thomson will retain ownership of its television brands and intellectual property. The new company will use the RCA brand in North America, the Thomson brand in Europe and the TCL brand in Asia. But the TCL name may eventually appear in the United States on a lower-end line of TV's, a Thomson spokesman said, possibly replacing the GE brand name, which Thomson currently licenses. 
The deal is another step in Thomson's efforts to remake its television business. In February and June, the company laid off more than 1,200 people, close to half the work force at its plants in Circleville, Ohio, and Marion, Ind., which make picture tubes and glass components. The move was in response to slackening demand for smaller television sets. Sales of consumer electronics make up 23 percent of the company's revenues, compared with 69 percent in 1997. Thompson expects that share to fall further in the next few years, as it concentrates on higher-profit broadcast equipment and services.
Whether the joint venture in China will allow Thomson to stay in TV manufacturing is by no means certain, said Danielle Levitas, a senior analyst at IDC, a research firm. "It is true that Thomson can make some additional profit by joining with TCL, through economies of scale and other means," she said. "But I think in three to five years, they will want to wash their hands of this business."
Making products in Asia does not guarantee profits, even with high sales volumes. Apex Digital made its mark in the United States by offering low-priced Chinese-made DVD players; it now sells a wide range of standard TV's plus a few digital models. But the company has never been in the black, the president, Steve Brothers, said. 
"I can't honestly say we're making any money," Mr. Brothers said. "Consumer electronics is a very difficult business in which to make a profit, due to the price pressure from retailers." He said he hoped to increase profit margins by offering more expensive digital televisions with added features. Other makers, like Sony and Philips, are also focusing on large-screen digital models. Most high-end sets destined for the American market are made in Mexico or in the United States, where the savings in transportation costs for large models outweighs the cost advantages of producing the sets overseas. 
"We've seen this price competitiveness coming for years," said Frans van Houten, chief executive of Philips Consumer Electronics. Earlier this month, that company closed picture-tube manufacturing plants in Germany and Britain, citing continued price erosion and the need to remain competitive. Next year, it will move manufacturing of its tube-based high-definition TV's for the American market to Juarez, Mexico, from Bruges, Belgium.
Philips outsources much of its TV production to China, not just because of low labor costs but also because of the country's strong supply chain, Mr. van Houten noted. Even so, he said, "If you're just at the low end of the market, you are in much more trouble." 
Sony, which makes 75 percent of the picture-tube sets it sells in the United States in its plants in Mexico, announced in October that it would lay off 13 percent of its employees throughout the company over three years, end picture-tube manufacturing in Japan and create a joint venture with Samsung of Korea to make LCD screens. 
Sony does not make televisions in China, but "it may be necessary to use China in the future," president of Sony Electronics. Hideki Komiyama, said. "We need a lot of manufacturing flexibility to meet our requirements."
In the long run, every segment of the television business will be affected by continuing price competition. "Making a transition from standard picture-tube sets to rear-projection and flat panels lets you run for cover. But it is only a matter of time before that business feels similar pricing pressures," said Ms. Levitas of IDC. 
Indeed, over the next few years the TV manufacturing business is likely to fragment further, with large companies concentrating on the high-end market while ceding the lower end of the business to obscure Asian companies that license better-known brand names. Just recently, a Taiwan-based company announced that it would sell LCD televisions under the Westinghouse name.
The domestic industry received some relief late last month when the Commerce Department imposed tariffs ranging from 28 to 46 percent of the wholesale price on Chinese-made televisions with screens 20 inches or larger. The department found that Chinese manufacturers were dumping sets below cost on the American market. The dumping charges were brought by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the Industrial Division of the Communications Workers of America and Five Rivers Electronic Innovations, the last American-owned television manufacturing plant, operating in Greeneville, Tenn. 
To survive, Five Rivers, which makes sets for companies like Zenith and Sharp, has switched the bulk of its output from lower-priced sets to expensive high-definition televisions and rear-projection models using microdisplay technology. But even at the high end of the market, pricing pressure is strong.
"One customer said that we would lose our contract if we couldn't lower our price by $100," the president of Five Rivers, Tom Hopson, said. "We couldn't, and we lost the contract.
"An executive from China told me that our country's future role is only as a distribution service center, not a manufacturer," Mr. Hopson said. "I hope he's not right."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers assemble high-definition televisions at Thomson's plant in Juarez, Mexico, where the company produces primarily high-end sets. Production of standard units is increasingly moving to Asia. (Photo by Thomson)(pg. C1); Because of transportation costs, Thomson still favors this plant in Juarez, Mexico, for production of large-screen digital televisions. (Photo by Thomson)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); JOINT VENTURES (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); MARKET SHARE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (60%) TELEVISION; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: TECHNICOLOR SA (94%); TCL MULTIMEDIA TECHNOLOGY HOLDINGS LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: THOMSON SA; TCL INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS 

TICKER: TCH (PAR) (94%); 1070 (HKSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (94%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC7819 SERVICES ALLIED TO MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTION (94%); SIC3671 ELECTRON TUBES (94%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

PERSON: TAUB, ERIC A 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (91%); NETHERLANDS (67%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003 



557 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Offshore Jobs In Technolo gy: Opportunity Or a Threat?

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
The United States economy is finally getting stronger, but there seems to be one unsettling weakness: the apparent wholesale flight of technology jobs like computer programming and technical support to lower-cost nations, led by India.
 The trend is typically described in ungainly terms -- as "offshore outsourcing" or "offshoring." But that rhetorical hurdle has done nothing to lessen the recent public debate and expressions of angst over this kind of job migration. There are some early signs of political reaction. Last month, for example, the State of Indiana pulled out of a $15 million contract with an Indian company to provide technology services. And a proposed bill in New Jersey would restrict the use of offshore workers by companies doing work for the state. 
 Forrester Research, a technology consulting firm, published a report this month pointing out that the movement abroad is only gradual. The firm bemoaned "the rising tide of offshore hype." Yet Forrester itself played a significant role in framing the debate on offshore outsourcing, as well as stirring fears, with a report last year. That report, published in November 2002, predicted that 3.3 million services jobs in America would move offshore by 2015, and added that the information technology industry will "lead the initial overseas exodus." 
So what is really happening? Is the offshore outsourcing of technology jobs a cataclysmic jolt or a natural evolution of the economy?
The short answer is that the trend is real, irreversible and another step in the globalization of the American economy. It does present a challenge to industry, government and individual workers. But the shifting of some technology jobs abroad fits into a well-worn historical pattern of economic change and adjustment in the United States.
"To be competitive and to maintain and improve American living standards, we have to move up the technology food chain," said Craig R. Barrett, the chief executive of Intel.
That may seem like easy advice from someone perched at the top of the food chain, but Intel represents a good example of a company that successfully navigated an earlier round of threats from international competition, from Japan in the 1980's.
In the early 1980's, Japanese chip makers appeared to be taking the semiconductor industry by storm, supported by their banks and their government. The Japanese were focused on the market for memory chips, which store data. At the time, Intel was getting battered and still received much of its revenues from memory chips. It made a bet-the-company decision, abandoned the memory-chip business and focused on microprocessors, the bit-processing engines in personal computers.
The bet, of course, paid off as the personal computer business blossomed. In retrospect, Intel's triumph might seem to be a foregone conclusion. But it did not necessarily look that way back then. Remember, those were the days when the term Japan Inc. struck fear in corporate boardrooms across America, and there was a resonant ring to the bleak prognosis of the nation's economic future by the former vice president, Walter F. Mondale: "What are our kids supposed to do? Sweep up around Japanese computers and sell McDonald's hamburgers the rest of their lives?"
It did not quite work out that way, did it? Today, the overseas challenge in technology services comes from linking nations with strong education systems like China, India and Russia with the global economy. The Internet is a big part of the phenomenon. The spread of high-speed Internet connections in the last few years has meant that Indian programmers are a mouse-click away from American corporations that are eager to cut their software development costs.
The salary comparisonsare striking. A programmer in the United States would earn about $80,000 a year on average, compared with $20,000 or less in India. But analysts say the actual cost savings on a development project are not proportionate. Whole stages of a project -- analysis, design and deployment -- typically require face-to-face meetings. Communications and cultural differences add to costs and sometimes reduce effectiveness. 
On a typical corporate software project, employing 40 programmers for a year, the savings from offshore outsourcing in India would be more in the range of 20 to 40 percent less than employing higher priced labor in the United States, estimates Joseph Feiman, an analyst at Gartner Inc., a research firm. Sometimes, American services firms with special expertise are the preferred choice, despite higher labor costs.
"The math of looking only at salaries is just wrong," Mr. Feiman said. "And it is a prevalent misconception."
Some offshore work has returned to the United States, but whether the few reported cases represent any kind of incipient "backlash," as it is sometimes portrayed, is uncertain. Lehman Brothers confirmed last week that it had stopped using offshore India workers for its internal computer help desk, and earlier this month Dell Computer acknowledged that some of its technical support for corporate customers had been brought back to the United States.
A closer look at the job migration numbers finds them less frightening than at first glance. Take the Forrester figure of 3.3 million services jobs moving offshore between 2000 and 2015. To begin with, projections of the future are always tricky, and even more so when one tries to look 12 years ahead. The projections show that half of the 3.3 million jobs are in traditional office services, like bill processing, order handling and the like. Only 14 percent of the total are in computer services, according to Forrester. 
But even the larger number of 3.3 million needs to be put in perspective. The United States has more than 130 million employed workers, about 70 percent of them in the services sector. Over the last 10 years, 3.5 million private sector jobs a year have been created on average, or 35 million. Even in good years, a lot of jobs are lost through layoffs and business closings -- 2.5 million jobs in 1999, for example. Given the normal job creation and destruction in the economy, the Forrester projections of offshore movement -- roughly 214,000 a year from 2000 to 2015, in all categories of service employment -- do not seem so alarming.
"What we did was size a trend that was out there," said John C. McCarthy, the Forrester analyst who wrote the report. "We tried to be conservative."
In an information economy, technology services are an "input" in the same way that steel, glass and rubber are parts of a car. So reducing the cost of technology services curbs inflation while improving efficiency and productivity. A recent study by the McKinsey Global Institute estimated that every dollar of costs that United States companies move offshore yields a benefit of $1.12 to $1.14 to the American economy, mainly from cost savings and steering workers toward jobs that add more value than those replaced.
The difficulty of finding good jobs for workers, however, is a thorny policy issue. In software development, for example, the jobs that will continue to reside toward the top of proverbial economic food chain will be for people who can use technology to solve problems in specific businesses like banking, manufacturing and retailing. The software jobs most at risk,analysts say, involve straightforward coding, where technical specifications are handed off to a programmer who is told, "Do this." Not everyone is going to be able to make the transition from software coder to designer.
That is similar to the experience of workers who lost manufacturing jobs to low-cost imports. A study by the Institute for International Economics, examining manufacturing jobs losses from 1979 to 1999, found that a fourth of factory workers who were re-employed took pay cuts of 25 percent or more.
Research groups and academics have suggested forms of wage insurance, either publicly financed or privately financed by the companies that benefit from offshore outsourcing, to soften the blow for some transition period.
"Wage insurance is worth considering because technological change is so rapid," said Robert B. Reich, a professor of social and economic policy at Brandeis University who was secretary of labor during the Clinton administration. "It would spread the costs of economic change over a much larger pool." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFSHORING (93%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (90%); TRENDS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (88%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (85%); MEMORY CHIPS (84%); SEMICONDUCTORS (84%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (86%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (86%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003 



558 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Assemblyman Says the City's Housing Authority Keeps Too Many Apartments Vacant 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
The New York City Housing Authority is the biggest and, by many accounts, the best-run public housing agency in the country. Its 2,700 buildings have held up reasonably well. Few of its 419,000 residents move out. And there are more than 146,000 people ready to move in, determined to wait the decade or so that it can often take for an apartment to open up.
 But now, a state assemblyman from Manhattan is criticizing the housing authority for holding several thousand vacant apartments, some for as long as 12 years. 
 In a report to be released today, the assemblyman, Scott Stringer, found that the authority's own data showed that there were more than 5,300 vacant apartments, or 3 percent of the entire inventory, with more than a third being in Manhattan.
Nearly 3,500 of those apartments have been vacant for more than one year. More than 900 have been empty for more than five years. And 88 have been empty for more than nine.
"There was never a sense that there would be vacancies in public housing, because what people bemoaned was the doubling up, the tripling up, and waiting list of over 140,000 people," said Mr. Stringer, who, after receiving the data through a Freedom of Information Act request, discussed his preliminary findings with The New York Times. "So the fact that there are thousands of vacant apartments in public housing that have been vacant for many years is alarming."
But the housing authority says that the numbers are not nearly as bad as Mr. Stringer might presume.
In fact, the housing authority says a few thousand apartments are always empty, either because they are in the middle of renovations, or being saved for emergencies in which families need immediate shelter.
Housing officials also say that some apartments end up being vacant for more than a year because of the deliberate, meticulous and sometimes frustrating nature of government contracts.
"When Scott Stringer comes along and says there are vacancies, well, yes there are vacancies," said Howard Marder, a spokesman for the housing authority. "But the vacancies exist because of modernization work, and when it's all done, people will move back."
The jousting over vacancies comes at a time city officials and housing groups are desperate to create as much housing for low- and moderate-income families as possible in a city with record homelessness and a shortage of housing or land. 
Indeed, last year Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, in declaring that the city faced a housing crisis, announced a plan to repair, preserve and build 65,000 units of housing -- a plan that would be the most ambitious since the Koch administration.
The vacancy rate for New York City's entire inventory of 2 million rental apartments was 2.9 percent in 2002. In 1999, it was 3.2 percent.
The vacancy rate for public housing has been comparably low, as well, though it did increase to 3.4 percent in 2002 from 1.9 percent in 1999.
A decade ago, the housing authority would typically have perhaps 1,000 or so units that would stay vacant for more than a few months or even a year because of rehabilitation needs, said J. Phillip Thompson, a former acting general manager of the authority during the Dinkins administration. But in recent years, that number has climbed to 3,000 or 4,000. And according to Mr. Stringer, that means that the housing authority is losing anywhere from $10 million to $30 million each year in potential rent.
"I was really shocked by the data," said Mr. Thompson, who is now an associate professor of urban studies and planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Both Mr. Thompson and Mr. Stringer speculated that the increase might have to do with poor management, rather than any plan to privatize housing. And Mr. Marder, from the housing authority, was emphatic in saying that there were no such privatization plans. "Period. End of story," he said.
Still, Mr. Stringer said that the borough-by-borough breakdown of vacancies was striking in many ways. Manhattan had the greatest number of vacancies of more than a year, with 1,749. The Bronx had the highest percentage of vacancies of more than five years, with 43 percent.
The development with the greatest number of vacancies was Vladeck I, on Madison Street in Manhattan, with 456, with some apartments empty as far back as 1996. Next was Prospect Plaza, in Brooklyn, with 266, with some vacant back to 1997, according to Mr. Stringer.
In response, Mr. Marder said that the Prospect Plaza project was one that was ambitious, and complicated, in scale because it involved funding from the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development.
And for other projects, there was another federal component: a 1996 agreement with HUD in which the housing authority agreed to make approximately 9,000 units accessible to people with physical disabilities. That conversion typically takes four or five years to complete.
It sometimes takes one or two years to find enough vacant apartments to reach a critical mass to make renovations economical, Mr. Marder said, excluding any complications due to funding or contracting. 
"This isn't a TV show where you've got a problem and a solution in 30 minutes," Mr. Marder said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); PUBLIC HOUSING (92%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003 



559 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1716 words

HEADLINE: For More People in 20's and 30's, Home Is Where the Parents Are 

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
On the job, James Navarro seems to be a model of mature adulthood. At 30, he is an appellate court lawyer in Brooklyn, working 50 hours a week on research to help judges decide cases.
 But look at the rest of his life, and the picture becomes murkier. 
 Mr. Navarro lives with his parents in Queens. His mother packs lunch for him a few times a week. His bedroom still has his high school baseball trophies and a giant stuffed bunny that was a present from a former girlfriend. On weekends, he plays touch football and goes drinking and clubbing with his two best friends -- both about his age, fully employed and living with their parents, too. 
"When I was in college, I thought I'd be married by 24 and have a house and kids by 30," Mr. Navarro said. "Now I think the idea of being an emotionally developed male by 24 is ridiculous. I want to get married and have kids someday. But I don't feel any pressure that it has to be soon."
Mr. Navarro is no loser: he is funny, good-looking, charming -- and typical of his generation's slowed-down approach to adulthood. To some extent, the data tells the story. Nearly all the traditional markers of adulthood, including marrying, getting a college degree and moving out of the family home, are occurring later than they did a generation ago.
The shape of life for those between 18 and 34 has changed so profoundly that many social scientists now think of those years as a new life stage, "transitional adulthood" -- just as, a century ago, they recognized adolescence as a life stage separating childhood from adulthood.
"There used to be a societal expectation that people in their early 20's would have finished their schooling, set up a household, gotten married and started their careers," said Frank F. Furstenberg Jr., a sociology professor at the University of Pennsylvania. "But now that's the exception rather than the norm. Ask most people in their 20's whether they're adults and you get a nervous laugh. They're not sure."
Sociologists say there are several indicators of this state of mind. Nationwide, the median age of first marriage, which hovered around 21 for women and 23 for men from the 1940's to the 1970's, has risen steadily since to 25 for women and 27 for men.
Education takes longer. Only about a third of those who go straight from high school to four-year residential colleges graduate four years later. With so many young people taking time out to make money or change direction, most education experts now use six-year graduation rates as their benchmarks. 
Perhaps the most striking change, though, has been in the proportion of young adults nationwide who live with their parents. To be sure, the numbers remain small -- about 14 percent. Nonetheless, between 1970 and 2000, the most recent census, the percentage of 24- to 34-year-olds living with parents or grandparents increased by 50 percent. During the boom years of the 90's, the trend reversed slightly among those in their 20's but held steady among those in their 30's.
The Census Bureau's Current Population Survey shows that the numbers are on the rise again. The trend is most visible in New York -- 30 percent of the New York-Northeastern New Jersey area's 22- to 31-year-olds live with their parents -- followed by Los Angeles and other large, expensive cities. 
The changes raise many policy concerns, chief among them that most American institutions are still built around the idea that people in their 20's are fully autonomous. Young adults coming out of the foster care system, or the juvenile justice system, get no continuing support. Health insurance cuts off, even for 20-somethings in affluent families.
Then, too, the longer transition to adulthood has striking implications for parenthood.
"Parenting used to be thought of as a life stage of about 18 years," said Robert Schoeni, a professor at the University of Michigan who works at its Institute for Social Research. "If it means continuing support for 30 or even 34 years, that's not always comfortable for parents who were raised under very different conditions and were expected to be on their own much earlier." 
In part, Professor Furstenberg and others say, the longer transition to adulthood reflects an economy in which most jobs that pay enough to support middle-class life require years of advanced education. For most young people, that means years of semiautonomy, in which they piece together loans, part-time jobs and whatever money their families can provide. Many spend their 20's and early 30's shuttling between college and work, professional school and travel, community service and internships, never earning enough to settle down, marry and raise a child. 
Nancy Dye, president of Oberlin College, said that whereas most graduates used to go straight on to graduate school, having chosen at least a preliminary career path, many now stick around, uncertain of their direction. A few years ago, she said, "students came up with a new term, F.T.L. -- failure to launch." 
In interviews with dozens of 20-somethings, most say they share a sense that there is no right time to have completed their education, lived on their own or gotten married, that such fixed expectations have no place in their lives. And many see it as beneficial to step slowly and gradually into adult life. 
"I think it's great, and really important, to take time to date and travel and hang out with your friends," said Elisabeth Levy, 28, a catering sales manager at a private club in Midtown Manhattan. "This way, when you do finally settle down, you're really ready, and you don't wake up at 33, married with two kids and a house, and trapped, like 'How did this happen?' and 'What did I do with my life?' "
Those living at home, even if employed in good jobs, often describe their arrangements as sensible and mature, in that instead of throwing away money on rent, they are saving money toward their future. And if, meanwhile, they are back in their childhood bedrooms, working at low-paying jobs to save enough to continue their educations or buy homes, they say, that is no tragedy.
For many, the 20's are a floating, flexible, exploratory time.
"For the last few years, my life has been so up in the air," said Jennie Schneier, 24, who works part time in public radio. "Several of my friends have started applying to grad schools. One is applying to three different types of grad school -- law, business and photography -- to see where she'll get in.
"I find grad school appealing, too, because I like the idea of settling into something. But I don't have any idea what to study."
Ms. Schneier, who has lived with her parents for three years, recently moved from an unpaid internship to a job where she is paid one day a week. "Sometimes I think it's ridiculous that I'm about to turn 25 and can't support myself," she said. "I've regressed a little since I've been back with my parents: If I'm home by 6:30, there's dinner on the table. And my dad does the laundry." 
The Research Network on Adult Transitions, a team of social scientists directed by Professor Furstenberg and financed by the MacArthur Foundation, has for years been gathering data on 18- to 34-year-olds: when they reach the traditional markers (later, throughout the Western world), what they think constitutes adulthood (self-sufficiency, a full-time job and an independent household, but not necessarily marriage or children), when they feel most adult (at work), how much support they get from their parents (on average, $38,000, or $2,200 a year from 18 to 34).
The return to the nest of children in their 20's and 30's can be a jolt for parents. Several parents with newly returned children, who would not be quoted by name for fear of hurting their children's feelings, agreed that despite the pleasures of having their offspring close at hand, their return had been stressful and, in some cases, disruptive of their plans to sell a large home, retire or move.
Suddenly, they say, everything is up for grabs: Who will be home for dinner? Who will cook dinner? If a parent is wakened at 2 a.m. by the smell of cooking, and rises in the morning to find no milk for breakfast, dirty dishes in the sink and a house full of sleeping 20-somethings, what is the right response?
Many parents face not one departure and one return, but a revolving door, as one after another of their offspring leaves for college, returns, leaves for graduate school, returns, moves for a job and returns again. 
At the Navarro household, in Maspeth, Queens, all four grown children are back home: James; his two brothers, 27 and 25; and their sister, 23. 
"Michael, the 27-year-old, talks about moving out, but he never does it," James Navarro said. "It doesn't make me feel too much like a kid to live there. As I've gotten older, I appreciate my parents more." 
Still, it is not the life Mr. Navarro envisioned. In high school, he was a star athlete, good enough, he thought, for a professional baseball career. To that end, he chose St. Thomas University in Miami. But his baseball dreams did not pan out, so after graduating he returned home and spent two years working as a security officer in Midtown Manhattan. 
"I knew I wouldn't be doing that too long, but I didn't know what I would do," he said, describing a state of mind that seems to descend on many of his generation as they leave college. "I thought about teaching, social work, working for a nonprofit, but law school seemed the most challenging."
Most of Mr. Navarro's closest friends remain unmarried, he said, and not quite ready, at least financially, to set up households.
"I've only been to one wedding in the last three years, and that was because a girl I know wanted me to go as her date," he said.
But one of his best friends is in a relationship that has become increasingly serious. And hanging over their lunchtime banter is the first tinge of awareness that they may be getting a bit old for the lives they lead.
"On New Year's Eve, sometimes, we have these motivational talks," Mr. Navarro said. "We'll say, we're getting older, we can't go to these places with teeny-boppers anymore." 
They laugh and begin talking about the weekend football team. They are asked about the age range of the other players. 
Mr. Navarro gets a look of mock alarm: "Who's the oldest? Oh, no, is it me?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: James Navarro, 30, at home in Maspeth, Queens, with his mother, Estrella. Mr. Navarro worked as a security officer in Midtown Manhattan, then went to law school. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Jennie Schneier, 24, playing a guitar and singing at home with her parents, Faye and Roger. Ms. Schneier works part time in public radio. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)(pg. B6) Chart: "STATUS REPORT: Full Nests"Americans are staying single longer, and living with their parents longer, than they did 30 years ago. Delaying MarriageThe estimated median age at first marriage. Graph tracks median age of first marriage from 1970 to 2002. Staying HomeThe percentage of grown children living with their parents, by age of children. Graph tracks percentage of grown children living with their parents, by age from 1970 through 2002. DemographicsPercentage of grown children, age 22 to 31, living with their parents. MALE: 56.8%FEMALE: 43.2%WHITE: 64.9%BLACK: 16.9%OTHER: 15.2%MULTIRACE: 3.0% (Source by Census Bureau)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); MARRIAGE (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (76%); GRADUATION RATES (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); BASEBALL (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003 



560 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Senate Republicans Eye Big Medicaid Cuts 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 21 

 BODY:
Setting the stage for what promises to be one of the most important battles of the coming session, the Senate's Republican majority plans on Monday to propose cutting about $2.5 billion from health insurance for the poor over the next five years. The state would then use much of the savings to relieve counties from having to pay their share of one of the most expensive and fast-growing insurance programs, Family Health Plus.
 Included in a report from the Senate Task Force on Medicaid Reform, the proposal is intended to keep a lid on skyrocketing county property taxes, according to people familiar with the report, which is to be released Monday. Those taxes have been rising at double-digit rates for the last three years, incensing property owners around the state and prompting a revolt among county executives and legislators. 
 With the proposal, the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Rensselaer County Republican, is taking the lead in the yearly battle to rein in the cost of Medicaid, the federal insurance program for the very poor. In New York, the state and local governments each pick up a quarter of the cost of the $42 billion-a-year program, which now provides insurance to more than 3 million people. No other state has such a high local share.
Over the last five state budgets, the cost of the program has risen $12 billion, or about 40 percent, as the Legislature and Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, have expanded the program at the same time the cost of medical services has outstripped inflation. New York has the most expensive Medicaid program in the country, costing the state and the counties a total of $7,646 for each beneficiary, nearly twice the national average of $3,936.
The burden on counties has grown intolerable, county executives complain, forcing hefty tax rises simply to pay the bill for Medicaid. Several county executives, among them Thomas Suozzi of Nassau County, have attacked the State Legislature for taking credit for popular new programs without taking the blame for property tax increases. 
Some county executives, however, voiced doubts the state takeover of Family Health Plus would save local governments enough to put a dent in the Medicaid burden. "It's a good start and I'm glad we got their attention," Mr. Suozzi, a Democrat, said Sunday night. But one of the co-chairmen of the task force, Senator Kemp Hannon, a Long Island Republican, said, "For many of these county executives nothing short of a takeover of everything will count." He said the Senate deserved credit for trying to propose some way to help counties during a fiscally tough time.
Senator Bruno, who leads members mostly from rural and suburban areas where property taxes are an emotional issue, has vowed to curb the growth in Medicaid this year. If history is a guide, the Assembly's Democratic majority is likely to resist. Most of the Democrats come from the city, where Medicaid helps support a large and politically powerful health-care industry.
But the task force Senator Bruno assembled last June did not go as far as county executives had hoped. Many county executives have favored having the state assume the local share of paying for the one-third of Medicaid patients who absorb more than two-thirds of the costs: the aged, disabled and blind. They also have argued that the local share of Medicaid costs should be capped at its present level.
The task force has made a more modest proposal, according to people familiar with the 30-page report. The report calls for cutting the growth in the state and local share of Medicaid costs, through various reductions in services, by about $2.5 billion over five years. The state's share of these savings would be $1.6 billion and the local governments would save about $900 million.
Then the state would apply about $1 billion of its savings to pick up the local governments' share of Family Health Plus, which allows working people just above the federal poverty line to buy insurance through Medicaid at extremely low rates. The program has been growing rapidly, as droves of people making minimum wage but receiving no health benefits have signed up, often with the encouragement of their employers, state and county officials say.
Over the last year, the enrollment in Family Health Plus has nearly doubled, to 280,000, and the cost has risen by a factor of six, to about $880 million a year, state officials say. The local governments are paying $220 million of that, officials said.
Robert Gregory, the executive director of the New York State Association of Counties, said most county executives would welcome the state's picking up the cost of Family Health Plus, but they are also hoping the state does something to curb the cost of prescription drugs and to shift the cost of caring for the aged, disabled and blind to the state. "It's certainly a good start," he said. 
Aides to Speaker Sheldon Silver, the Democratic Assembly leader, said he would reserve judgment on the Senate's plan until he saw more details, but they noted that in 1999, the Assembly supported having the state and federal governments pay the full cost of Family Health Plus.
Suzanne Morris, a spokeswoman for Governor Pataki, said the governor had yet to decide if he supported a state takeover of Family Health Plus, though he agreed in principle with cutting the cost of Medicaid to save local governments money.
It was unclear Sunday night what cuts in services would be among the task force's 40 recommendations, but advocates for people dependent on Medicaid were already girding for a fight. It is likely to pit urban Democrats, hospitals and unionized health-care workers against county governments, property owners and Republicans who favor lower taxes.
"I don't think they can carry out huge cuts without hurting beneficiaries," said Michael Kink, a lobbyist for Housing Works, a nonprofit group that looks out for AIDS patients and impoverished people. "We are paying for health care for people who need it and a lot of other states are leaving these folks with nothing."
Aides to the governor say he, too, will recommend cuts to Medicaid in his executive budget, as he does most years. But the Senate's push to curb medical costs, and pressure from county executives, will make it harder for him to compromise this year with the Assembly Democrats.
In 1999, when Family Health Plus was created, the governor fought to keep the state from picking up the local share of the cost. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MEDICAID (90%); COUNTIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); TAX LAW (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SUBURBS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003 



561 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: Amnesty for Illegal Immigrants? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge's ambitious plan to grant the estimated 8 million to 10 million undocumented immigrants some sort of legal status ("New Hope on Immigration," editorial, Dec. 15) is a necessary step forward in preserving our national security and a new hope for undocumented immigrants who live, work and pay taxes but suffer the humiliation of being the scapegoat every time our nation finds itself in a political and economic crisis. 
 Let's hope that this plan becomes a bipartisan effort between members of Congress and immigrant rights activists to develop a good immigration policy that will safeguard our nation for decades to come. 

JOHN MENDOZA
Pomona, Calif., Dec. 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); AMNESTY (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003 



562 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
For Giuliani, Memorial Plans Fall Far Short

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK

 BODY:
STOP. Start over. It is not too late to get it right. So argues Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has studied the eight designs being considered for a World Trade Center memorial and does not like what he sees.
 "If it were me, I would issue a timeout," Mr. Giuliani said in a phone interview on Friday. "I'm not the mayor or the governor, but if it were me, I would recognize the fact that none of the designs won the hearts and minds of the people. The problem reflected in all of the designs is that the significance of the place doesn't emerge from them. Maybe if they take the time they would never do that, but at least it's worth trying." 
 The ever-outspoken former mayor has been a critic of the rebuilding process from the beginning, saying that the plan devoted too much space to office development at the expense of a memorial. At one point, he wanted all 16 acres of the site to go to a memorial, and while he has backed off that idea, he remains firmly opposed to the rebuilding plans even as they move forward.
If Gov. George E. Pataki or Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg or any of the other players are having second thoughts, they have not shared them with the public. The latest schedule calls for the winning memorial design to be chosen in January. Plans for the revised Freedom Tower, the first skyscraper on the World Trade Center site, were just unveiled with great pomp on Friday. Mr. Pataki has indicated he would like the tower's cornerstone laid by the third anniversary of the Sept. 11 attack, which falls within two weeks of the Republican National Convention at Madison Square Garden. No connection, he contends.
Nor should there be, said the former mayor. "I don't think there is any relationship between the two things," Mr. Giuliani said. "This is something that's going to last forever. There is no reason it has to be rushed. Doing it right is more important than doing it on any particular timetable." What if redesigning the memorial meant redesigning the just-unveiled tower? "It wouldn't bother me," he said.
History shows, he noted, that designing evocative memorials takes time and distance. The competition for the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, won by Maya Lin, began seven years after the country ended its involvement in Vietnam. The design of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum won federal approvals in 1987, after years of planning. (The museum opened six years later.) "People need time to come up with grand, great ideas," Mr. Giuliani said. "We've got to give time for feelings to settle."
THE eight proposals for a Sept. 11 memorial feature air, light, water and greenery. While some find that consoling, others consider the designs too generic, too pretty to memorialize the death and destruction wrought by the terrorist attack. That is how Mr. Giuliani sees them.
"I hate to use this description, but you know it when you see it," he said. "Those of us who are not architects or artists, we know what's right and what isn't. You can look at them and say, 'This isn't right.' Honestly, I don't think any of these come close. They don't say to someone, 'This is all about the significance of this place as a historic site, the site of the worst attack in the history of this country, the bravest responses, all the conflicting things that make up Sept. 11.' "
If the plan let the memorial grow while office space shrank, what would be the effect on economic development? A grand memorial would do more to stimulate the economy by attracting millions of visitors to Lower Manhattan, the former mayor said.
A spokesman for the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, Matthew Higgins, said yesterday that no delay was contemplated. The eight designs include "many powerful ideas, but no matter which one is selected, the memorial itself could not possibly convey all that must be told about September 11, or memorialize all that was lost," he said. "That's why the entire 16-acre site is being planned as a single memorial," including the tower, a museum and cultural center.
Why crowd the place? Why not one grand memorial, with the power of Maya Lin's work, asks Mr. Giuliani. "The Vietnam Memorial has a stroke of genius," he said, citing the names of the dead and missing engraved in black granite. He does not favor the same approach for the Sept. 11 memorial. "But we need someone who is going to come up with a stroke of genius." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); VETERANS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); VIETNAM WAR (60%); HOLOCAUST (50%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (50%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIET NAM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003 



563 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: I Remember Muammar 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE; E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As American tanks began to roll through Iraq to overthrow Saddam, Libya's longtime terrorist, Muammar Qaddafi, came up with a strategy to avoid being next on the regime-change list: pre-emptive surrender.
 Nobody calls it that, of course. Diplomats and doves want to treat the dictator's epiphany as the result of patient negotiation stretching back for decades. Some Republicans claim he was softened up by a bomb dropped his way in the Reagan years. But three years after that, his terrorists murdered 270 people in the bombing of Pan Am 103. 
 Subsequent sanctions led to economic pain and the threat of a coup. After acknowledging Libyan responsibility, he has been trying to get U.S. oil companies back by promising to pay damages to the families of his victims. 
That was not what caused this tyrant suddenly to confess to buying and developing chemical, biological and nuclear weapons, and to promise to reveal all to inspectors. He was transformed into a pussycat by the force of American arms in stopping the spread of mass-destruction weaponry.
Why did Qaddafi have his spy chief, Musa Kussa, approach Britain's Tony Blair -- not France, Germany or the milquetoast U.N -- to get off George W. Bush's short list of rogue nations? The reason: Britain was America's primary ally in the war against Saddam and was the bridge to Washington. This shows that it pays to be a staunch friend of the U.S. in extending freedom and does not increase a nation's strategic importance to be America's political adversary.
France's Jacques Chirac and Germany's Gerhard Schroder may at last be taking this lesson to heart. 
Only because American antiterrorist resolve in Iraq was not lost on the ayatollahs of Iran, and because tens of millions of young Persians hunger for the democracy they can see in store for neighboring Arabs, were French and German diplomats able to elicit vague promises of W.M.D. restraint in Teheran. 
And because unemployed French and German workers were angry at Chirac and Schroder when the Pentagon announced that no Iraqi reconstruction jobs would come their way from U.S. taxpayer funds, those erstwhile foot-draggers last week rushed to embrace Bush envoy James Baker. The awful prospect of missing out on a chunk of our huge investment in rebuilding Iraq made them eagerto consider forgiving billions in odious loans they had happily extended to Saddam's tyranny. 
Not all rogue nations have gotten the word. North Korea, the source of missiles to both Libya and Iraq, remains intransigent as China vainly tries to induce the U.S. to appease Pyongyang again. Syria, reported to be concealing billions of Saddam's money, claimed last week it shook $23 million out of Qaeda money smugglers, but won't let us interrogate them and wants to keep the proceeds in Syrian-occupied Lebanese banks.
On the whole, however, the post-9/11 Bush foreign policy -- to remove the global threat of terror enabled by regimes opposing freedom -- is succeeding. Events are proving that we and our coalition allies were right to root out the sources of terror in Afghanistan and Iraq. As the skin-saving demarche of Qaddafi demonstrates, introducing freedom to countries long denied it has a powerful effect on the actions of regional neighbors.
The euphoria of my fellow Wilsonian idealists, though understandable after this early winter of our discontent, is premature. Casualties will continue over there; Al Qaeda will likely attack us over here. Vladimir Putin, given a free pass by Bush and triumphant in Russian elections, will continue to ship nuclear fuel and scientific know-how to Iran, making it easier for those ayatollahs to break their promises to overly trusting Europeans.
I remember Colonel Qaddafi's underground poison-gas factory -- "Auschwitz in the Sand" -- and wonder where he bought Libya's present stock of centrifuges. As a Syracuse University dropout and trustee, I visit the memorial on campus to the 35 college students aboard Pan Am 103 whose blood can never be washed from his hands. 
It may be, "for reasons of state" -- like Musa Kussa's help in penetrating terrorist-protecting parts of Syrian and Saudi intelligence services -- we should ultimately permit our investors to revive Libya's oil industry. But we should verify and never trust, and neither forget nor forgive Muammar Qaddafi. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COUPS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); DAMAGES (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); ESPIONAGE (69%); SMUGGLING (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%) ;UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); JACQUES CHIRAC (50%); TONY BLAIR (50%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM; QADDAFI, MUAMMAR EL- (COL); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES)#000T031224SRAQA01# 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (68%) UNITED STATES (96%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (78%); IRAN (68%) LIBYA; GREAT BRITAIN; IRAQ; FRANCE; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003 



564 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: It's a Tiny New World 

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J . FEDER 

 BODY:
It may take sophisticated microscopes to see nanotechnology's products, but the money pouring into the field is hard to miss. 
 The industry gained new visibility on Dec. 3 when President Bush signed a law authorizing federal research and development subsidies of $3.7 billion over the four years, beginning next October. The Oval Office photo opportunity for nanotechnology, coincidentally, came the same day that Nanogen, one of a handful of publicly traded start-ups, disclosed that it had received a patent for a nanoscale manufacturing method that it said could be used to make advanced microchips and flat-panel displays. Nanogen's stock more than doubled that day, leading the sector higher. 
 Entrepreneurs say that the nanotechnology investment climate is warming up just in time to meet their growing capacity to put investors' money to work expanding research and bringing innovations to market. 
"We are really close to the takeoff point where the industry could absorb a lot of money," said David Ludvigson, chief financial officer of Nanogen, a 10-year-old developer of tools for genetic testing that is one of the few nanotech start-ups to go public before the bursting Internet bubble soured investors on technology stocks. 
Nanotechnology draws its name from the nanometer, which is a billionth of a meter, or 100,000 times as thin as a human hair. Individual molecules, tiny organisms like viruses and the smallest features of products like microchips operate in a nanoscale landscape.
Many industries used nanoscale products and processes decades before the term nanotechnolgy became arecognized concept on Wall Street. In the 1930's, for example, Kodak figured out how to insert a layer of nanoscale silver particles in its film to filter light. But nanotechnology did not catch the fancy of investors until the 1990's, when ingenious new software and computer-controlled tools expanded the possibilities for manipulating small-scale processes, designing new materials and accurately measuring their performance.
The new generation of nanomaterials is already taking commercial root. Nanoscale clay particles strengthen car bodies. Coatings made with aluminum-titanium nanoparticles add to the durability of boiler components and submarine periscopes for the Navy. Carbon nanotubes add stiffness to Babolat tennis rackets. And pants are being made with techniques that alter the structure of cotton to create nanoscale whiskers that make the fabric more stain resistant. 
Analysts say that such developments are simply a hint of what is to come in nanotechnology, which the National Science Foundation predicts will contribute $1 trillion a year to the United States economy by 2015. 
Such forecasts matter to policymakers, but pioneers with products to sell are focusing on the immediate challenges of building their businesses.
"The timing is good for taking our company to the next level," said Dr. David Reisner, chief executive of Inframat, a privately held company in Farmington, Conn., that uses nanomaterials in producing specialty coatings. After six years of existing primarily on research grants from the Defense Department, Inframat expects to raise $6 million to $8 million next year from venture capitalists or large private-sector customers to expand operations.
Dr. Reisner was one of numerous executives at NanoCommerce, a trade show in Chicago earlier this month, who said they planned to seek new investments in the coming months, in some cases tens of millions of dollars. 
Integrated Nano-Technologies, based in Henrietta, N.Y., might pursue as much as $30 million from venture capitalists next year, said Stephen S. Nazarian, the company's spokesman. Integrated has developed prototypes of a portable system that quickly identifies biological agents like anthrax when they bind to fragments of DNA it mounts on a microchip. But Mr. Nazarian said that the company, which has relied so far on individual investors, thinks that potential business partners might be a better bet than venture capitalists to finance the next stage of its expansion.
"We have had a lot of unsolicited interest from Asian governments and potential distributors of products using the technology," Mr. Nazarian said. 
Others at the Chicago show, like Lewis Gruber, president and chief executive of Arryx, which has developed a tool for manipulating individual cells and even smaller particles with light beams, said they were barred by securities regulations from commenting on their plans -- generally a sign that they have started to raise money. 
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the influential Silicon Valley investment firm that has generally steered clear of nanotechnology, is also reticent. According to some reports, Kleiner has joined a round of financing that ZettaCore, a four-year-old start-up based in Denver, is expected to announce in January. ZettaCore is developing a nanoscale computer memory, which is based on switching the electrical charge on a molecule the company has designed.
Kleiner and ZettaCore declined to comment on the reports. Vinod Khosla, a general partner at Kleiner, said that the sector was "overheated" and attracting too much venture capital. But, he added, Kleiner expects to play a part in it. 
Analysts say it is impossible to sort out how much of the improving climate reflects the general upturn in the economy and the brightening picture for nearly all technology stocks. But at least some of the optimism is based on developments within the nanotechnology sector itself, like the bill signed by President Bush. "No screaming headlines greeted this event, but astute investors will recognize a buy signal," Josh Wolfe, a co-founder of Lux Capital, a venture capital and technology consulting firm in New York, wrote in an e-mail message to subscribers of his nanotechnology newsletter. 
Mr. Wolfe said last week that investors should remember that most nanotechnology companies would not be chosen to receive federal financing. He also predicted that the nanotechnology boom would lead to the creation of many companies that will be unable to attract investors. But, he added, the pool of players will not approach the proportions of the Internet boom, because an entrepreneur needs more expertise and money to get started in nanotechnology. "This time around," he said, "we're not talking about something that could be done by two guys and a dog in a garage." 
It might be just as hard, though, for investors to strike it rich in nanotechnology as it was in the dot-com gold rush. Some of nanotechnology's most promising concepts, like computers that replace silicon transistors with single molecules, are at least a generation away from market. And for all the spectacular properties of new materials like carbon nanotubes, which are many times stronger than steel, no one has yet demonstrated how to make money from them. Many experts predict large multinationals will come to dominate markets for most nanoproducts long before investors in startups can get rich in a public offering. 
Fear that the technology is being oversold has also slowed investment, some analysts say. So has uncertainty about potential environmental hazards -- fears that have been stoked by many of the same critics who have battled the spread of agricultural biotechnology.
One sign that the sector is still mainly in the developmental stage is that one of the most anticipated public offerings next year is expected to come from Nanosys, which despite raising $39 million last June from a group of major venture capital firms does not expect to have its first commercial product before 2006. Based in Palo Alto, Calif., Nanosys is building a broad patent portfolio of related to nanoscale wires, rods and dots that could be used in products as diverse as solar cells, biosensors, and computers. Like many dot-coms, much of its credibility derives from its executive team, a group of longtime entrepreneurs who have taken other technology companies public or sold them to larger companies. 
"The I.P.O. window will be opening, but there may not be a raft of nanocompanies ready to go," said Steve Jurvetson, a partner in Draper Fisher Jurvetson, a Silicon Valley venture fund that has been the leading investor in early-stage venture capital nanotechnology companies. "There are still more entrepreneurs who want to raise money than investors."
Still, Mr. Jurvetson said, valuations are clearly rising for many private nanotechnology companies. One start-up his firm has decided to back recently received five competing financing proposals, he said.
Other signs of the times include follow-on offerings, like the one filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by Harris & Harris, an investment firm with holdings in several nanotechnology companies, which is seeking to sell two million new shares. The company's shares, which trade on the Nasdaq, have more than tripled this year, closing 4.1 percent higher at $8.65 on Friday. The stock trades under the ticker symbol TINY.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 25, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about increasing investment in nanotechnology referred incorrectly to Lux Capital, whose co-founder commented on the trend. It is a venture capital firm that advises investors; it does not also offer technology consulting services.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen S. Nazarian made a presentation for Integrated Nano-Technologies at NanoCommerce, a trade show in Chicago. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times) Chart: "Betting on the Tiny"Venture capital for nanotechnology companies, while far from its peak, is still flowing steadily, and President Bush has backed $3.7 billion in research money to begin in October. Graph tracks the total quarterly investments in venture-backed nanotechnology companies since 1997. (Source by VentureOne)(pg. C1) Chart: "The Small Time"Small nanotechnology companies outnumber large ones by more than three-to-one. Figures as of Jan. 2003 NanomaterialsLARGE COMPANIES*: 68SMALL COMPANIES+: 258 Electronic applicationsLARGE COMPANIES*: 26SMALL COMPANIES+: 61 Bio applicationsLARGE COMPANIES*: 9SMALL COMPANIES+: 53 EquipmentLARGE COMPANIES*: 11SMALL COMPANIES+: 34 SoftwareLARGE COMPANIES*: 1SMALL COMPANIES+: 3 *More than 10,000 employees+Under 500 employees (Source by In Realis)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NANOTECHNOLOGY (93%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); COMPUTER CHIPS (75%); COMPUTER INTEGRATED MFG (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); PATENTS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); PAINTS & COATINGS (61%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (55%) NANOTECHNOLOGY; INDUSTRY PROFILES; RESEARCH; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%) FEDER, BARNABY J

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003 



565 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Voices Few Regrets At the Midterm 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
As he approaches the midpoint of his term, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who over the course of two years has slalomed from a pleasant political curiosity to one of the least-popular first-term mayors in a generation, said he regretted little that he has done since taking office at one of the most difficult times in New York City's history. 
 In a 20-minute year-end interview in which he ranged from defiant to serene, Mr. Bloomberg denied that he was out of touch with average New Yorkers, an accusation he has faced so often it is practically his e-mail signature. 
 "I understand what the public wants," he said, citing safe streets and quality schools as examples of goals common to all New Yorkers. "I'm not out of touch at all." As for the painful point made in some polls that few people want to have dinner with him, he noted that no one had ever turned down an invitation. 
Looking ahead to the next mayoral election, in 2005, Mr. Bloomberg said, "I will face the voters and I will say, 'This is my record.' " He all but dismissed would-be challengers, saying: "How are they going to build more than 65,000 units of housing? How are they going to bring crime down more than we've brought it down? How are they going to bring more jobs into the city and get the private sector to help? 
"How are they going to improve the school system," he went on, barely pausing for breath. "Where were they when we fought for control of the school system so the city could be in control of its own destiny? Those kinds of questions, when they are asked, and you compare me to them, I think you'll do very well, quite honestly."
Whether Mr. Bloomberg can improve his standing among voters in the second half of his term and gain another four years clearly depends on the strange alchemy of economics, timing and other factors that govern all outcomes in American electoral politics. But he has learned the hard way that New York voters only half meant it when they said they wanted a business executive rather than a politician to take the city's helm.
"The fact of the matter is, there are very few big problems that you can solve quickly," he said. "What I've tried to do is to take on those things that, while they may be politically difficult, are in the city's best interests. And that is the argument for a second term."
During the interview, in a second-floor conference room at City Hall, the mayor ticked off a list of his accomplishments: a reduced municipal crime rate; a telephone system designed to track city services and help New Yorkers get answers; badly needed changes in the school system; and a balanced budget that ended the worst fiscal crisis in two decades.
Acknowledging that many of his promises, including the creation of 65,000 housing units and a school system that will educate children for the 21st century, will take time, and conceding that many city residents have a less-than-sunny view of his mayoralty so far, Mr. Bloomberg said New Yorkers would need another term to see his best plans through. "I am in favor of term limits," he said, "and I think eight years is enough. But I think four years are not enough." 
The vast differences between Mr. Bloomberg's first and second years may presage the challenges ahead. In his first year in office, he balanced a severely strained city budget without tax increases, welcomed to City Hall scores of groups that had been banished during the Giuliani administration and amused and beguiled New Yorkers with straight talk in a Boston twang.
Few criticized him, even when he played golf as a city budget agreement came down to the wire or was suspected of flying off to his Bermuda home for the weekend. Even City Council members, whose job description includes an unwritten clause that thou must trash the mayor, generally kept quiet.
But Mr. Bloomberg's businesslike style, coupled with his disdain for public displays of affection with constituents for the television cameras, began costing him points in the polls, and his critics began to hear pedantic lectures rather than straight talk.
He has rarely publicly trumpeted his more significant, if less scintillating, accomplishments, like profound -- and cost-saving -- changes in the city's procurement policies and a deal with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to get more money for airport leases.
Instead, Mr. Bloomberg's face has been more more firmly fixed to some of the less popular causes he has chosen to champion, like a widespread smoking ban or a spectacularly failed attempt to bring nonpartisan elections to the city. In those battles, he had often appeared less like the city's C.E.O. and more like its strict English nanny, telling residents what is best for them and digging in, it sometimes seemed, just because he could.
"People see that he is a fighter," one city official said. "But they just don't see that he is fighting for them."
So during his second year, Mr. Bloomberg has taken some pages from his predecessors, spending lengthy days around the city; making sure he crosses the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge often, bearing gifts for Staten Islanders; andtouting his administration's accomplishments louder and more forcefully. If counterfeiters of Ferragamo bags are arrested, Mr. Bloomberg makes sure he is there to praise the effort, instead of leaving that to his police commissioner, as he indicated during the 2001 election would be his way.
His frustration, he said, lies with elected officials who let politics drive their decisions and get in the way of progress. "I want history to show," he said, "that I never walked away from a tough decision for political reasons."
Judged by private-sector standards -- a difficult comparison to be sure -- chief executives and management experts tend to give the mayor high praise. 
"To manage New York, you need a clear vision of what you want for New Yorkers, and to have really good senior managers," said the chairman of the management division of the Columbia Business School, Raymond Horton. "Third, you have to be careful about figuring out what you want to get involved in and what you don't. Fourth, you have to bargain for what you get, and fifth, you have to deliver good services for the value."
Professor Horton gave the mayor good marks on almost all these points, but noted that his poor relations with labor unions, his inability to reduce labor and pension costs and his reliance on some forms of debt did not pass private-sector productivity and cost-control tests. 
But too much of a bottom-line approach also brings detractors, especially around issues that have strong emotional undercurrents, like the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan. When Mr. Bloomberg was invited to review the final designs in the memorial competition, people who were there said, his first question was how much each would cost to build. 
Mr. Bloomberg said he regretted very few things that have occurred on his watch, and those he mentioned would have required clairvoyance to head off. "I wish, for example, we had looked at the labor practices on the running of the Staten Island ferry," the mayor said. "In retrospect, I wish that we hadn't sent those two cops on that particular gun buy where they got assassinated. But the major things that we approached, I have no regrets whatsoever. I will never do anything in my life that will save more lives than the smoking ban."
For many observers, the question is whether Mr. Bloomberg can embrace the political parts of his job that he so dislikes without ceding his management style, and better communicate the strengths of his record. "He communicates the idea that if you don't like him, he just doesn't care," said William Eimicke, a professor of public administration at Columbia. "Most politicians are in this business because they want to be liked. So he needs to be able to run on his competence. Because people in this town respect competence. Look, they hate George Steinbrenner, but the Yankees are very successful."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg offered a list of what he sees as his accomplishments in office. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CRIME RATES (70%); HISTORY (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2003 



566 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: More Teenagers Say No to Sex, and Experts Aren't Sure Why 

BYLINE:  By LINDA VILLAROSA

 BODY:
Arielle Wilcott, 17, knows the facts of life. Her mother gave her the "birds and the bees" talk for the first time when she was 13, and the two women continue an open dialogue on love, sex and relationships. 
 Several years ago, Arielle's junior high school in Sherman, Tex., brought in a health educator to discuss sex, sexually transmitted diseases and birth control. At the end of ninth grade, Arielle and her classmates participated in an assembly that encouraged abstinence. 
 Combined with what she has read, seen on television and discussed with her friends, Arielle said she believed that she had been thoroughly "sex educated." That is why she has decided to wait to have sex until she grows older. 
"I don't want to be forced to take care of a child that I'm not ready for or get an S.T.D.," said Arielle, a high school senior who likes art and plans to be an animator after college.
"As far as sex," she said, "it'll happen someday, but just not today. Besides, if I came home pregnant, I'd be lying on the ground, outlined in chalk."
Like Arielle, a record number of teenagers have received the message, "Don't bring home a baby." Last week, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in its annual tally of birth statistics, announced that the teenage birthrate had declined 30 percent over 10 years to a historic low of 43 births per 1,000. African-American teenagers showed the sharpest declines, down more than 40 percent since 1991. For young black teenagers, from 15 to 17, the rate was half, to 40 births per 1,000 in 2002 from 83.6 per 1,000 in 1991 .
These declines, combined with a decrease in abortions among teenagers, points to a promising trend: fewer teenagers are becoming pregnant. According to the Alan Guttmacher Institute, in women 15 to 19, the pregnancy rate dropped from 11.5 per 1,000 in 1991 to 8.5 in 1999, the latest year with available statistics.
"When you see the abortion rate decline in tandem with birthrate, this essentially means that teenagers are being more successful in avoiding pregnancy, both that end in abortion and end in birth," said David Landry, senior research associate at the institute. It estimates that in women 15 to 19, the abortion rate declined, from 40 per 1,000 in 1990 to 24 in 1999. 
Experts in the field agree that educational efforts have been crucial to reducing the numbers.
"Since 1991, when teen birthrates peaked, there's been a tremendous amount of attention focused on preventing teen pregnancy, and it has paid off," said Stephanie Ventura, the chief of the reproductive statistics branch of the National Center for Health Statistics in Hyattsville, Md., who is a co-author of the new report. "Initiatives at the state and local levels, including school-based programs, church-run, private and community have been ongoing and have really caught teenagers' attention."
Campaigns to raise AIDS awareness have also helped reduce teenage pregnancy, particularly among blacks, who have the highest rates of H.I.V. and AIDS. 
"Our community has had to become more forthright and willing to discuss sexual issues, because we have been so hard hit by AIDS," Bronwyn Mayden, executive director of Campaign for Our Children in Baltimore, said. "Black kids know the stats, they have seen what's happening in the community, and they are scared."
Even as advocates, health educators and, of course, parents, celebrate the good news, the debate continues over what type of sex education can take credit.
The two sides are firm.
Abstinence-only education, which the Bush administration supports, teaches that refraining from sex is the only way to prevent pregnancy and diseases. Programs that receive federal financing are not allowed to advise using contraception to reduce the risk of pregnancy or condoms to protect against disease. In 2003, the federal government devoted $117 million to abstinence education.
Comprehensive sex education, on the other hand, teaches that while abstinence is preferable, young people need information about sex and contraception. The Guttmacher Institute says that two-thirds of public school districts have policies to teach sex education, and that 35 percent of those require that abstinence be promoted as the sole option for unmarried people. Birth control and condoms can be mentioned just in terms of failure rates.
Arielle Wilcott says her ninth-grade workshop encouraged just abstinence until marriage, while presenting failure rates for birth control.
Rather than distributing condoms, a common practice in "safer sex workshops," the educator urged any students who had condoms to drop them off in a box near the counselor's office. 
Two years ago, when she was 14, Addie Hughes of Columbus, Ga., signed a WhyWait contract not to have sex until marriage.
"I started hearing a lot about H.I.V. and S.T.D.'s, and I made the decision to remain abstinent so that I could keep my body safe and not have to worry about getting pregnant," said Addie, who plans to go to college next year to study graphic design.
She is a peer educator with a group, Teen Advisors, that encourages young people to avoid sex, drugs, alcohol and tobacco.
"I believe that sex is something that needs to be kept inside of marriage," Addie said. "That's the only safe sex."
Leslee Unruh, president and founder of the Abstinence Clearinghouse in Sioux Falls, S.D., finds the trends encouraging. 
"I look at these declines as evidence that teenagers across the country are embracing the idea of abstinence until marriage," Ms. Unruh said. "Young people today want something more than just jumping into bed."
"These kids need to be told that there is something worth waiting for," she continued, "that they are worth waiting for."
Mr. Landry of the Guttmacher Institute disagreed about the major influences over the decrease. 
"The abstinence-only movement," he said, "would like to take credit for what we're seeing. But this decline has been going on since the early 90's, long before their movement came into political force." 
He and other people point to statistics that show that teenagers are having less sex and using contraception more effectively when they do. According to the C.D.C. Youth Risk Behavior Survey, the percentage of high school students who have ever had sexual intercourse dropped. Among girls, it fell to 43 percent in 2001 from 51 percent in 1991. For boys, it fell to 48 percent from 57 percent in the same period.
The survey found that use of condoms among high school students rose to 57 percent from 46 percent in those 10 years.
"The only way the teen pregnancy rate has gone down is through a combination of less sex and more contraception," said Sarah Brown, director of the National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy, a nonprofit advocacy group in Washington. "So both sides are making a contribution.
"There is strong support for a clear message for abstinence for teenagers, especially young teens.
"But there is also support for good information about contraception," Ms. Brown added. "Americans don't see this as an either or."
Some people in the field credit an entirely different factor for helping drive down the pregnancy rates, the robust economy of the 1990's. 
"I had a professor who said that hope is the best contraception," said Debra Hauser, vice president of Advocates for Youth, an organization that works on adolescent sexual health. "When young people have a sense of their own future, they delay sexual initiation and postpone pregnancy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Because of school programs and discussions, Arielle Wilcott, 17, of Sherman, Tex., says she has decided that sex is best left till later. (Photo by Mark Graham for The New York Times) Chart: "Falling Birthrates"Births per 1,000 U.S. women aged 15 to 19, with percentage decreases. Hispanic: -20%1991: 104.62002: 83.4 Non-Hispanic Black: -42%1991: 118.22002: 68.3 American Indian: -36%1991: 84.12002: 53.8 Non-Hispanic White: -34%1991: 43.42002: 28.5 Asian or Pacific Is.: -33%1991: 27.32002: 18.3 (Source by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); STATISTICS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); ABORTION (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); TRENDS (74%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (64%); ANIMATION (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 



567 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Reversing the New Deal 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "The Ownership Society," by David Brooks (column, Dec. 20):
 Legal historians view the late 19th century and early 20th century as a time when courts took the side of corporations in labor disputes, turning a blind eye to the economic realities of the unequal bargaining power of employers and employees. 
This practice resulted in unbelievable wealth disparities (the Gilded Age) and collapsed spectacularly in the Great Depression. The New Deal then saved capitalism. 
 Mr. Brooks and President Bush promulgate the terms Ownership Society and self-reliance. These, however, are code words for the true objective of modern conservatives: rolling back the New Deal and the Great Society and returning America to an age whencorporations preyed on workers and government took the side of those who profited.
It is a return to a dark period.

DANIEL STANGLER
Madison, Wis., Dec. 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HISTORY (88%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (87%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 



568 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: The Unseen Homeless 

 BODY:
The husky young man, so clear of eye and dauntless in rattling his beggar's cup, makes New Yorkers wonder ambivalently on the streets. They pass by, navigating somewhere between suspicion and charity toward all the city dwellers lumped together as the homeless. In truth, that category of poverty includes an unseen army of children with parents -- homeless families. Thousands of families make no ostensible pleas out on the streets, but are turning up in record numbers at charity wards. 
 The downward spiral of this increasing throng can be measured in the collapse of manufacturing jobs and employment opportunities in the economic recession. Five years ago, the city's average daily enrollment of homeless families was 4,558; this year it is 9,211 and climbing. Shelters are overflowing as fresh employment lags behind the recovery that even now is putting extra money in the pockets of so many others. 
 That homeless families rarely resort to street begging is the noble resolve of the seven historic charities being helped this holiday season by the Neediest Cases Fund. Open-hearted institutions like the Children's Aid Society, spawned 150 years ago when homeless children scandalized the city with their ubiquitous begging, are in dire need of donations. The society has pioneered temporary family apartments in full community settings, replete with health care, food pantries and children's support services. Hundreds of families have been bolstered to move on to independence, but hundreds more are cycling downward for help.
We guarantee that every penny donated -- The Times pays all administration costs -- goes to these frontline charities. Please send a check to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. You may also contribute by using a credit card online at www.nytimes.com/neediest; or by telephone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (93%); FAMILY (92%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHARITIES (89%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PANHANDLING (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); CHILD WELFARE (71%) HOMELESS PERSONS; EDITORIALS; NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 



569 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Climb After Reports From Wal-Mart and Ford

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday, lifting the Dow Jones industrial average to a fifth consecutive 19-month high, after Wal-Mart Stores said that sales picked up over the weekend and Ford Motor increased its 2003 profit forecast.
 Benchmark indexes gained even after the United States raised its security alert to the second-highest level for the first time since May, citing the increased possibility of terrorism during the holidays. 
"Unless the terrorists are successful in stopping or interrupting global growth, the strength in the global recovery will offset the threat of terrorism," said Tim Woolston, who helps manage $3.9 billion at Boston Advisors Inc.
 The Dow Jones average climbed 59.78 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,338.00, its highest close since May 17, 2002. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.28 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,092.94, also a 19-month high, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 4.78 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,955.80. 
 The S.&P. 500 and the Dow have each risen 24 percent in 2003 and are headed for their first annual gain in four years on optimism that a recovering economy will buoy corporate earnings. The Nasdaq is up 46 percent.
 Five stocks rose for every three that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. More than 1.2 billion shares changed hands, down 8 percent from the previous Monday. Trading may be slower than average all week, with money managers and traders off for the holidays.
 The stock market is closed Thursday for Christmas, and tomorrow and Friday the exchanges close at 1 p.m. Eastern time, three hours earlier than usual.
 Benchmark indexes, which were mixed for much of the session, jumped in the last hour and a half of trading.
 Wal-Mart rose 72 cents, to $53.07, contributing the most to the rise in the S.&P. 500. Sales picked up over the weekend after a slow start to the holiday-shopping season as more shoppers waited until the last minute to buy gifts, the company said. The stock also may have received a lift from comments by a Goldman, Sachs analyst.
 "Wal-Mart stock's long underperformance may nearly be over," George Strachan, the analyst, wrote in a report to clients. He said the stock might rise 12 percent to 15 percent over the next 12 months.
 Ford rose $1.55, or 10 percent, to $16.79 for the biggest gain in the S.&P. 500. Excluding costs to revise the terms of its spinoff of the auto parts maker Visteon, profit is expected to be $1.05 to $1.10 a share, Ford said, compared with a prior estimate of 95 cents to $1.05.
 General Motors jumped $2.05, or 4.1 percent, to $52.41, for the biggest gain in the Dow. The company divested itself of Hughes Electronics through a spinoff and sale of Hughes stock to the News Corporation for $3.1 billion in cash, plus News Corporation preferred shares. G.M. will use the money to help offset its pension deficit.
 Esperion Therapeutics, a developer of treatments for heart diseases, surged $11.83, or 52 percent, to $34.53. Esperion agreed to be bought by Pfizer for $35 a share in cash, 54 percent above Friday's closing price for Esperion shares. Pfizer added 3 cents, to $34.30.
 3M rose $1.18, to $85.25. Earnings will improve as the industrial economy strengthens, said a UBS analyst, Jeff Cianci. He raised his one-year price target to $100 from $90. An analyst at Banc of America Securities, Mark R. Gulley, also raised his 12-month target price to $100 from $90.
 ConAgra Foods rose 67 cents, to $26.15. Second-quarter profit rose 15 percent after the company cut costs by selling its farm-supply and chicken businesses.
 Supervalu rose $2.57, or 10 percent, to $27.95 for the second-biggest gain in the S.&P. 500. The company, a food distributor and owner of the Shop 'n Save supermarkets, said it would earn as much as $2.10 a share for the year ending in February. Analysts had expected the company to earn $2.08, the average in a Thomson First Call survey.
 The prices of Treasury securities fell in New York as the lowest yields since the start of October dissuaded some investors from buying the securities at a time when the economy is strengthening and the government is selling more debt.
 By late in the day, the 10-year note lost 9/32, to 100 20/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.17 percent from 4.13 percent on Friday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills		 	 	Price	99.783	99.512	High Rate	0.870	0.970	Investment Rate	0.884	0.992	Low Rate	0.840	0.940	Median Rate	0.860	0.950	Total applied for	$40,869,833	$35,738,283	Accepted	$20,735,001	$19,352,828	Noncompetitive	$1,303,664	$792,176	

Both issues are dated Dec. 26. The three-month bills mature on March 25, 2004 and the six-month bills on June 24, 2004.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from September 2003 to December 2003. (Source by The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); CHRISTMAS (76%); TERRORISM (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (71%); BOND MARKETS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (60%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); BOSTON ADVISORS INC (70%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); VISTEON CORP (50%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); WMT (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); VC (NYSE) (50%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 



570 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE FORMER GOVERNOR; 
Dean Rebuked for Statement Implying Brother Served in Military

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: PEMBROKE, N.H., Dec. 22 

 BODY:
Howard Dean came under criticism from an Iowa newspaper last weekend for an answer to a questionnaire in which he implied that his brother was serving in the military when he disappeared in Laos 29 years ago. His brother had been traveling in Southeast Asia as a tourist.
 Asked by The Quad-City Times, which is based in Davenport, Iowa, to complete the sentence "My closest living relative in the armed services is," Dr. Dean wrote in August, "My brother is a POW/MIA in Laos, but is almost certainly dead." 
 The brother, 23-year-old Charles Dean, whose apparent remains were recovered by a military search team last month in Laos, was classified as missing in action, along with other civilians captured or killed in the area during the Vietnam War. But Charles Dean never wore a uniform, and while some family members at times suspected that he was working as a spy, Dr. Dean said he never believed that.
His answer to the newspaper's question, published on Dec. 14 as part of a regular feature on The Quad-City Times's editorial page in which the Democratic presidential candidates respond to questions intended to probe their persona, drew complaints from readers and a rebuke from the newspaper's editorial board on Sunday. The editorial was circulated to a handful of reporters on Monday by a rival campaign.
Dr. Dean was asked about his answer by a reporter after a town hall meeting here on a day when he took aim at President Bush for what he called a "callous" refusal to press Congress for an extension of unemployment benefits. 
"The way I read the question was that they wanted to know if I knew anything about the armed services from a personal level," he said. "I don't think it was inaccurate or misleading if anybody knew what the history was, and I assumed that most people knew what the history was. Anybody who wanted to write about this could have looked through the 23-year history to see that I've always acknowledged my brother's a civilian, was a civilian."
Mark Ridolfi, editor of the paper's editorial page, noted that the question had specifically asked about the armed services and said of Dr. Dean's reply, "It certainly is not an accurate response."
Mr. Ridolfi said the question, one of 20 that the candidates answered in writing in August, was intended to get at candidates' personal connections to the military. "When you have a family member currently involved in the military," he said, "you think of things differently." 
After hearing Dr. Dean's explanation during a meeting at the newspaper's office on Friday, Mr. Ridolfi ran an editorial in Sunday's editions describing Dr. Dean's original answer as "unusually revealing." 
"Charlie Dean's capture and death in Southeast Asia certainly shaped his brother's opinion about the American military," read the editorial, which pointed out that the younger Dean opposed the Vietnam War, worked on George McGovern's 1972 presidential campaign and visited Laos during a yearlong trip around the world.
"Knowing that story tells us something about the candidate," it continued. "So does inaccurately implying a direct family connection to the armed services for the 72,000 Quad Citians who received Sunday's newspaper."
Dr. Dean called the editorial, which referred to his brother as a "renegade," "one of the greatest cheap shots I've ever seen in journalism."
"It's offensive and insensitive not to understand what the impact of this is," he said, "writing about this in such a tawdry way."
Dr. Dean also wrote a letter to the paper, saying he was "deeply offended" by the editorial.
This is the latest in a string of incidents in which Dr. Dean, the former governor of Vermont, who has drawn support with his blunt remarks, has attracted controversy with imprecise statements. His rivals have frequently turned his own words against him to argue that he has switched positions on critical issues like Medicare or trade, and to question whether he is ready for the presidency. Earlier this month, he offered "an interesting theory" about whether President Bush had warning of the Sept. 11 attacks, something he later said he never believed. And he apologized last month for the way he phrased his desire to reach out to Southern white voters who have deserted the Democratic Party. He had said he wanted to be the candidate for "guys with Confederate flag decals on their pickup trucks."
At a town hall meeting in Exeter, N.H., on Monday afternoon, Dr. Dean referred to the centrist Democratic Leadership Council as "the Republican part of the Democratic Party" even while talking about the need to bring unity among Democrats. 
Jay Carson, a Dean spokesman, said the candidate was "joking," noting that the leadership council has been among the most aggressive opponents of the Dean candidacy.
When voters arrived at a high school here on Monday evening, they were greeted by volunteers for one of his opponents, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, giving out doughnut holes and a three-page handout criticizing Dr. Dean's record on foreign policy. The stunt capitalized on Dr. Dean's statement on Sunday that if nominated he would seek a running mate with international experience because "I need to plug that hole in the resume."
Seven other candidates responded to question about the armed services. Mr. Kerry said, "They're all retired now," while Senator Bob Graham of Florida, who has since dropped out, cited his brother, Bill, who was in the Air Force in World War II. Senator John Edwards of North Carolina mentioned his father-in-law, a retired Navy pilot, and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman named his nephew, Adam Miller.
Former Senator Carol Moseley Braun of Illinois wrote, "I come from a small family and I do not currently have a relative in the armed forces." 
Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio listed his brothers Frank (Vietnam) and Gary (Japan) as well as his sister Beth, who "served stateside." Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri noted that he himself had been in the Air National Guard, "but currently I don't have any relatives in the service."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Howard Dean taking a question yesterday at a town-hall-style meeting in Exeter, N.H. Several residents sat on the stage behind him. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSING PERSONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); VIETNAM WAR (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); GOVERNORS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 



571 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: APPLICANTS RUSH TO MEET DEADLINE FOR SEPT. 11 FUND 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
After a last-minute surge, 95 percent of eligible relatives of Sept. 11 victims had applied to join the government's ambitious but much-criticized compensation effort as the deadline neared last night.
 Officials with the federal Victim Compensation Fund, who worried just weeks ago that many eligible survivors would not sign up, said applications had come in by the hundreds as the hours to the midnight deadline wound down yesterday. 
 By day's end, a program that had been criticized as complicated, cold-hearted and ungenerous had achieved twin goals: offering billions of dollars in compensation to families for their pain and economic loss and to injured victims as well, while protecting the airlines whose planes were involved in the attacks from potentially ruinous litigation.
Only a month ago, the fund had received applications from about 1,800 families, or only 60 percent of those eligible, on behalf of relatives killed in 2001 at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, and aboard the airplane that crashed in Pennsylvania. That tepid rate, in turn, had prompted members of New York's Congressional delegation to push for a one-year extension of the deadline -- a position that an overwhelming majority of families supported. 
But the idea of an extension never made it out of Congressional committee. And as yesterday's deadline approached, people began to file in droves for several reasons, according to family members, lawyers and Kenneth R. Feinberg, the fund's administrator.
Some people outside of New York or Washington -- including a group of Mohawk Indian ironworkers from Montreal who were injured while volunteering at ground zero -- said that they first heard about the program only recently. Some victims' relatives said they had determined that the fund, however flawed, was a surer, quicker bet than litigation against the airlines involved, United and American. Most, though, said that they had simply been too overwhelmed by grief and by the complicated application process.
"I have more things on my plate, right now, in my life, because Mom is gone," said Mary Taddei of Queens, whose mother, Norma, was an administrative assistant at a financial services company at the World Trade Center, and was the emotional and logistical glue of her family. "I just said: 'You know what? Forget it. I'm never going to go through that paperwork.' "
But last week, Ms. Taddei, with the help of her lawyer, Justin T. Green, of Kreindler & Kreindler, finally submitted preliminary papers, even though she cringed at the prospect of digging into the facts and finances to come up with a monetary value to replace her mother's life.
"I know that the worst is probably yet to come, just to rehash everything, because there's no dollar value for her life," she said, her voice quaking. "It's enough that I have to live through it every day."
As of yesterday evening, 2,833 people had filed at least preliminary applications on behalf of dead victims, or 95 percent. About $1.5 billion has been paid out so far, or an average of $1.8 million per family, with a high of $6.9 million. An additional 3,624 people had filed injury claims; the awards have ranged from $500 to $7.9 million.The final number of claimants may not be known for about a week, until applications postmarked by the deadline are tallied. 
In all, the fund is expected to cost taxpayers as much as $3 billion, far less than the $5 billion that Mr. Feinberg had originally predicted.
Families now have until June 15, Mr. Feinberg said, to complete their applications -- a process that families say can be grueling, intensely personal and time-consuming.
Still, the deadline was a major milestone in the sad, crushing aftermath of Sept. 11. There has been a lot of attention devoted to the memorial at ground zero, and to the independent commission to investigate the attacks. But in the end, the fund may have the biggest tangible impact on the greatest number of people.
"It closes a very, very important chapter in the history of the 9/11 tragedy," Mr. Feinberg said. "I think that many people who filed ultimately said, 'I must try, with all the grief and heartache, to bring some degree of psychological closure to this chapter, and if I stay there and litigate, I'm not really able to bring closure to this part of my life.' "
When Congress hastily passed legislation in the days after the terror attacks to create the fund as part of an airline bailout package, officials hailed the plan as a fast and straightforward alternative that would ease the trauma of thousands of families. In exchange for waiving their right to sue -- which some lawyers believed could be a protracted and even risky option -- families were promised an average payment of about $1.5 million, within four months of their completed filing. 
But from the outset, the fund was beset by controversy and confusion over its rules, giving it the texture of a malleable work in progress, responsive to public pressure and subject to frequent clarifications.
In December 2001, for instance, Mr. Feinberg issued draft regulations outlining the mechanics of the fund. But after many families and officials criticized the regulations as stingy, he made significant changes in the final regulations, issued in March 2002, to increase payments.
Many people also felt that the fund was unfair to families whose relatives had earned Wall Street salaries of several hundred thousand dollars or more a year. In January, the families of seven victims who worked at Cantor Fitzgerald -- which lost 658 employees, more than any other company -- filed a lawsuit accusing Mr. Feinberg of acting illegally and unfairly, thereby shortchanging the families of all New York victims. But a federal judge dismissed that suit in May.
Then there was the problem of how Mr. Feinberg, a Washington lawyer, was perceived by the families. Despite working free on the fund, he was criticized as being insensitive and inconsistent.
Mr. Feinberg took the criticism to heart, acknowledging that he "underestimated the extent and the depth of the families' grief." Then, when family members started reporting to one another that Mr. Feinberg was fair and even generous in his awards, skeptics like Charles Wolf, who lost his wife, Katherine, an employee at Marsh & McLennan, changed their minds.
"If Ken hadn't changed, we'd be looking at less than half the people," said Mr. Wolf, who was originally so unhappy about Mr. Feinberg that he started a Web site in protest, www.fixthefund.org.
In just the last six weeks, the fund received about one-third of all the claims, with a good number coming from New York City firefighters and employees of Cantor Fitzgerald, Mr. Feinberg said.
Just yesterday, an ironworker, acting on behalf of about 50 Mohawk ironworkers, contacted Trial Lawyers Care, a national consortium of pro bono lawyers, and said that they had only recently learned of the fund from an article in their local newspaper.
Michael Barasch of the Barasch McGarry Salzman Penson & Lim law firm in Manhattan said he was filing up to 500 applications on behalf of rescue workers who suffered respiratory ailments at ground zero. "I know that my phone is not going to stop just because tomorrow, the deadline has passed," he said. "The lungs don't have a calendar."
The last applications filed in the New York office were from two volunteer workers. They walked in 35 minutes before the midnight deadline. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (89%); AIRLINES (88%); LITIGATION (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HIJACKING (74%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); LAWYERS (66%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); SUITS AND LITIGATION 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 



572 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5091 words

HEADLINE: California Leads Prosecution Of Employers in Job Deaths 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARSTOW; Robin Stein contributed additional reporting for this article. 

DATELINE: GUSTINE, Calif. 

 BODY:
For decades, Portuguese dairy farmers have dominated this wisp of a town on the windswept edge of the San Joaquin Valley. Tough, stubborn and hard-working, their families have prospered in a dusty land where death and injury are as close as a falling hay bale or a thrashing bull.
 It is accepted fact here that life is hard and cruel, that risk is everywhere, that death is as random as the summer lightning. When your time comes, words will be spoken over your coffin at Our Lady of Miracles, and then life will push on, as it always has. "We're a 'forgive and forget' community," is the way one town elder put it some years back. 
 This is the place that Roy J. Hubert Jr. has made his battleground. 
A tall, bearded man with a taste for bow ties and pink dress shirts, Mr. Hubert is a prosecutor with a mission. He is part of a small team of circuit-riding prosecutors who are crusading to transform the Wild West mores of rural California, a culture they regard as far too tolerant of death on the job. 
Their methods are simple, and controversial. With permission from local district attorneys, they bring high-profile criminal cases against employers who kill workers by violating workplace safety laws. 
"We're trying to drive a behavioral change within business," Mr. Hubert said. "We're a negative reinforcer." 
And so, from his office in Sacramento, 100 miles north of here, Mr. Hubert spends his days scouring reports of workplace deaths from all over California. Late last year, he found precisely what he was looking for on a Gustine dairy farm, a case he believed was outrageous enough to shock a powerful industry and challenge the unwritten moral code in a town named after a little girl who was thrown from her horse and killed. 
It happened at the Aguiar-Faria & Sons dairy, a sprawling farm of some 1,700 cows operated by one of Gustine's leading families. Two dairy workers, illegal immigrants from Mexico, drowned in a deep, dark sump hole filled with manure and wastewater. The coroner's report succinctly cataloged their struggles in life and in death: Between them, they had eight pennies and one dime in their pockets; their lungs, however, were packed with bovine excrement. 
The people of Gustine saw one more hard, cruel stroke of fate. 
Roy Hubert saw a golden opportunity. In January, in a place where dairy is king, he methodically assembled enough evidence to persuade a grand jury in nearby Merced to indict the farm's general manager and its herdsman for involuntary manslaughter and other felonies. 
Just like that, both men were looking at nearly five years in prison.
"Stunned" barely begins to describe Gustine's collective response. If criminal prosecutions for worker deaths are rare in the rest of the country, they are unheard of here. And of all the people to charge. 
The general manager and part owner, Patrick J. Faria, was chief of a local volunteer firefighting company. His family had long been a prominent sponsor of the annual Our Lady of Miracles festival. The Faria cows have led the festival parade. 
"As respected as they come in this community," said William H. Mattos, publisher of The Gustine Press-Standard. 
Many were baffled by what they saw as a ludicrous intrusion by the government. How could there be a crime in something like this, something that nobody ever meant to happen? 
Especially when Pat Faria had not even been on the farm that day. 
And when the herdsman, Alcino Nunes, a soft-spoken father of two who is known as Ralph, had wept openly as his men were fished from the sump hole. 
"If they had a clue," said Tony Xavier, a friend of Mr. Faria, "they wouldn't prosecute this case." 
Roy Hubert would have been amazed, and disappointed, by any other response. 
"These are not evil people," he said. "They are not people who hurt for the sake of hurting. They are not bad people. This is good ol' Pat, good ol' volunteer fireman Pat. He feels terrible. He's devastated. I get a lot of that. Well, good. So are the widow and the mother and the father and sister and brother. Just imagine the incredible despair and anguish as you're drowning in manure."

California at the Vanguard
California stands alone in the United States in its willingness to prosecute employers who kill or harm their workers by violating safety laws. 
Long before Congress created the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration in 1970, California had its own workplace safety standards, and it is one of 21 states that run their own versions of OSHA. Its powerful labor leaders and big-city district attorneys have long been adept at using headline-grabbing workplace deaths to win ever-stronger enforcement powers for the state agency, known as Cal OSHA. 
Under federal law, it is a misdemeanor to commit safety violations that kill workers. The maximum penalty is six months in jail and a $500,000 fine. But after a deadly refinery explosion in 1999, California adopted one of the nation's first laws making that same offense a felony. In California, conviction carries a sentence of up to three years in prison and a $1.5 million fine. 
Every workplace death or serious injury in California is investigated with an eye to potential prosecution. That work is done by a special Cal OSHA unit, mostly former police officers, whose members are required by law to refer every death to local prosecutors if there is credible evidence of a deliberate safety violation. 
Federal law sets a far more exclusive standard: only the most egregious workplace deaths -- those caused by an employer's "willful" safety violations -- can be referred to the Justice Department. But as The New York Times found in an eight-month examination of workplace death in the United States, in even those worst cases, the federal OSHA only rarely seeks prosecution. 
It is largely the same story in the other states that run their own workplace safety programs. California has prosecuted more employers for safety violations than all of those states combined, The Times found. At the same time, its workplace death rate is substantially lower than that of the rest of the nation. 
Still, California's record can be misleading. Most of these prosecutions take place in Los Angeles, San Francisco and a handful of other large cities whose district attorneys have the resources and political will. In dozens of small rural counties, district attorneys have been just as reluctant as the rest of the country to pursue what are often technical, time-consuming and politically sensitive prosecutions. 
Roy Hubert and his small band of roving prosecutors are trying to rectify this pattern of uneven enforcement. Called the Circuit Prosecutor Project, they work from the offices of the California District Attorneys Association in Sacramento, under the direction of Gale Filter, a man who combines a prosecutor's cold-eyed pragmatism with a reformer's messianic zeal. 
Mr. Filter, a former deputy district attorney in Southern California, joined the project in 1999, soon after it was established to help district attorneys in 34 rural counties enforce environmental laws. He has since expanded to worker safety, and in an interview, he spoke of his desire to stand up for migrant workers, illegal immigrants and others who hold neither power nor influence. 
"Who vindicates their rights?" he asked. 
But he also described a larger ambition -- nudging and shaping the legal values of communities that resist thinking of workplace deaths as potential crimes.
With help from Cal OSHA's criminal investigators, the Circuit Prosecutor Project has brought cases against a farmer whose employee was cut to pieces in a corn harvester, a gold miner in the Sierra Nevada whose employee's head was pinched off by an ore chute, and the general manager of a company responsible for a tank explosion in Northern California that killed one worker and left another with third-degree burns over most of his body. 
"I like to think we're challenging the system, and I like to think that by doing that we're challenging the mores of society," Mr. Filter said. "I suppose you could say we're opportunists, but I don't mind." 
In Roy Hubert, he found a kindred spirit. 
Raised in Wisconsin, Mr. Hubert, 63, spent his early career as a labor organizer, a prosecutor and a criminal defense lawyer. He saw opportunity in the burgeoning world of workplace safety law. There were few lawyers in the field, and it matched his interests in law and science. But he also decided that he could not be effective without "really knowing what is going on."
So he earned a master's degree in safety at the University of Southern California, then took a huge pay cut to become a safety manager for several Georgia Pacific millwork plants in Northern California. He described Georgia Pacific as a company that makes an "incredible effort" to protect workers. But he also recalled the feeling when a Georgia Pacific employee was killed at a nearby plant. "You feel like you've failed," he said. "What do you say to this man's widow?"
He later went to work for Littler Mendelson, a large California law firm with a reputation for the scorched-earth defense of major corporations charged with civil OSHA violations. Indeed, Cal OSHA inspectors have a nickname for Littler Mendelson; they call it Hitler Mussolini.
"They're tough, darn good lawyers," Mr. Hubert said, smiling and acknowledging that this entry looks more than a little jarring on his resume.
Still, looking back at "this odyssey of mine," as he calls it, Mr. Hubert cannot help but observe how his past has perfectly prepared him for what he calls "the best job I've ever had in my life."
He has seen safety from all sides, he says. He knows the shortcuts, the ways employers cut corners, the tricks company lawyers use to poke holes in charges of safety violations, the excuses supervisors give for ignoring safety rules. 
Yes, he knows he could make more money at Littler Mendelson. But it is more satisfying and fun, he said, "to drive change" in the fifth-largest economy in the world. 
"Gale says we're doing God's work," he said. "I'm of a religious persuasion where this is something we probably don't say." But, he added, it comes awfully close.
Mr. Hubert started work at the Circuit Prosecutor Project in December 2002. One case immediately grabbed his attention: Gustine.

Drowned in a Rank Stew
It was not the most promising pickup line.
"I don't own a car, I'm not here legally and I don't earn much money," he said, flashing a smile. "It's up to you."
Angelica Acevedo Hernandez followed Jose Alatorre onto the dance floor. 
He was tall, dark and dapper, a 19-year-old welder with a neat goatee and long sideburns who had crossed the border from Mexico in 1998. He sent love letters with uneven purple hearts, and he made her laugh. She was 21, a Gustine High graduate who worked the late shift sorting nuts at an almond factory. They were married at a chapel in Fresno, moved into a quiet apartment in Gustine and hung wedding photographs in their living room. A son followed. 
In 2000, Jose Alatorre took a welding job at the Faria dairy, $8.75 an hour and no benefits. It was his first time on a dairy, but he liked the work, liked repairing fences and corrals, liked mixing with the 30 or so other dairy hands. The one thing he did not like was the smell of manure, the way it hung on him after work. He became fanatical about showering as soon as he got home. 
Feb. 22, 2001, was their first wedding anniversary. 
Angelica Alatorre woke up early that morning and found her husband standing over their son's crib. "He gave me a really big hug, more than usual," she said. He told her he wanted to be this happy the rest of his life. He gave her an anniversary gift, a ring, and left for the farm. 
She spent the morning making enchiladas for lunch. Enchiladas were his favorite meal. She set the table, and then stepped outside to get some air and wait for her husband. The dairy was only a few minutes away. It was cold, she remembered, and gray. 
She looked to the sky. 
In the distance, she saw a Medi-Flight helicopter. 
It swept over Gustine, population 5,000; over Gustine High School, where a fine brown dust coats the bleachers at the football field; past the Pusateri Nut Company and the Manuel M. Lopes American Legion Hall, where men in white straw cowboy hats, pressed shirts and big gleaming belt buckles gather at the front door for wedding parties; past the Gustine Club, a dim bar in the center of town where Billie Jean Rocha serves up Portuguese beans, and the regulars play dice on a battered bar. 
On the outskirts of town, the helicopter began its descent, passing over trailer homes and tiny bungalows where farmhands live, and over new developments for the commuters pouring over the coastal range from San Francisco, exurbia encroaching on the Old West. 
It landed at the Aguiar-Faria dairy, established a half-century ago by the Farias, one of the earliest Portuguese families in Gustine. The first Portuguese arrived from the Azores, rocky islands off the Iberian Peninsula, and worked as farmhands for Dutch dairy producers. Over time, they pieced together their own herds, and then built their own dairies, 20 acres at a time. Families who once worked for the Dutch now employ mostly migrant workers from Mexico, and their farms cover hundreds of acres, with thousands of cows milling under long metal sheds. Some have automated milking pens and cows tagged with computer chips.
What has not changed is the problem of how to handle the huge quantities of manure and urine produced by large dairy operations. At the Aguiar-Faria dairy, the waste was pumped into a lagoon roughly the size of a football field. The manure would settle, and the remaining wastewater would be used to flush the cattle pens over and over. 
That morning, though, the men were having difficulty draining the lagoon. They suspected a problem with a pump in a sump hole next to the lagoon. Perhaps it was clogged. A worker named Juan Caballero suggested climbing down inside to see. Ralph Nunes, the herdsman in charge of dairy operations, agreed but told him to take a rope and two more men in case of trouble. 
The sump hole, a concrete shaft about four feet wide, was more than 30 feet deep. There was no ladder, just some bracing here and there. At the bottom was a stinking stew of manure, urine, afterbirth and other farm detritus. 
Enrique Araisa, 29, clambered down first. 
He came up after a few minutes and said he could not see anything wrong. 
Jose Alatorre went down to take a look too. He complained that he was not getting enough air. Then he pitched head first into the dark green liquid. 
Juan Caballero threw the rope down. He told investigators he could hear splashing and thrashing. He felt the rope tighten. Mr. Araisa scrambled back down to help his friend. But then he, too, collapsed and fell. 
There was more thrashing, then nothing. 
According to the autopsy reports, hydrogen sulfide and other gases from the waste most likely overcame both men, causing them to fall and drown. They were both long dead by the time the helicopter landed. 
Fifteen minutes later, the phone rang at Angelica Alatorre's apartment.

Fate vs. Accountability
Gustine mourned in the traditional way. 
Patrick Faria visited the families and paid his condolences. 
"He told me he was so sorry," Angelica Alatorre recalled. 
He offered to pay for the funerals, including the costs of shipping the bodies back to Mexico. A memorial Mass was held for the two men at Our Lady of Miracles, and then life pushed on. 
On a recent night, Pat Faria could be found at the Stevinson Bar and Grill, buying dinner and drinks for a dozen or so friends who had spent the day helping him brand and castrate 150 cattle. It was a festive, relaxed, close-knit group. 
"You try to find a bad word about Pat Faria," his friend Tony Xavier said. "Try to find a person that he hasn't done something for." 
Mr. Faria is a big man with a bushy head of hair. He sat quietly, his dirt-stained shirt unbuttoned, a great hairy belly poking out unceremoniously. On a small stage, a band called the Neon Knights was setting up. 
Mr. Faria, 52, apologized that he could not say much because of the charges against him, but he seemed eager to explain himself. He told of a childhood spent waking at 3 a.m. each day to milk cows. ("You work. Then you go to school. And then you work again.") And he spoke of a deep and abiding ethic at once communal and fiercely independent. When someone needs your help, you give it, he said. If you promise to do something, you do it. 
"Your blood," he said, "runs in the veins that your parents give you."
Mr. Xavier and his wife, Diana, jumped into the conversation. Mr. Xavier, lean and handsome, "starts colts" -- settles them enough so they can be ridden. Mrs. Xavier, blond and striking, is a "cutter" -- expert at maneuvering cattle with her horse. Both said that they accepted without complaint the possibility that they could be bucked off at any time, or kicked in the head. Death was that close. 
"It's just life," Mr. Xavier said. 
Dairy farmers are no different. "This is a hazardous job," said Mr. Xavier, who has worked on the Faria dairy. "Nobody told them, 'Stick them down a hole. They're going to die.' What those guys did, I've done 10 times. If I had been there that day, I'd have gone down in that hole." 
A few years ago, Mr. Xavier's father was killed on another Gustine dairy farm, crushed under a bale of hay. "It was a freak stupid accident," he said. "It's just one of these things. It's like being in the Twin Towers the day those planes hit. Hey, it was his day. That's just how life is." 
When Pat Faria spoke of the deaths on his dairy farm, he used similar words.
"This was just one of those bad deals," he said, his voice low and gravelly. "It's a bad deal, any way you look."

The Politics of Prosecution
Roy Hubert and the Circuit Prosecutor Project cannot go forward with a case without the permission of the local district attorney, who is an elected official. The question, then, was whether they could get the go-ahead from Gordon Spencer, a popular and moderate Republican in his fifth term as the district attorney of Merced County, which includes Gustine. 
"There's absolutely no way that you keep politics out of these situations," Gale Filter explained. 
Mr. Spencer was hardly blind to the political sensitivities of prosecuting a popular dairy farmer from Gustine, especially in a county where dairy farmers as a group exert such influence. During his 27 years as a prosecutor in Merced County, he could recall just one case where an employer had been prosecuted for safety violations that resulted in a worker's death, and that involved a collapsed construction trench, not the county's leading industry. 
Still, Mr. Spencer was also past president of the California District Attorneys Association, and he had strongly supported the Circuit Prosecutor Project. As it is, he said in an interview, his 21 prosecutors can barely keep up with 4,300 felony cases each year, and none possess the specialized knowledge needed for complex environmental or workplace safety cases. 
"We knew there was kind of a vacuum," he said.
As for the Faria case, he added, choosing his words with care: "I recognize the value of this industry and the importance of it in our community. But it just seemed like there were facts here that made the prosecution warranted."
As if to underscore the urgency of the safety situation, in August 2002 another man died at another Gustine dairy farm under similar circumstances. He was overcome by hydrogen sulfide and drowned while working in a sump pit of a manure lagoon. And there had been other such deaths, in California and in other dairy states, like Michigan, where five dairy workers died in one manure pit in 1989. As Roy Hubert saw it, it was high time that the dairy industry stopped using "fate" as a way of avoiding a problem. 
Last January, he presented the Faria case to a Merced County grand jury. 
"If you know anything about the agricultural industry, it's that, particularly on dairy operations, cattle manure produces certain lethal gases," he said in his opening statement, according to a transcript. "It produces ammonia. It produces hydrogen sulfide. It produces methane, among other gases. And when you put those gases inside a confined space, it becomes particularly lethal." 
California's safety laws, he told the 18 jurors, require employers to take several precautions before allowing workers to enter a confined space like a deep and narrow sump hole with no easy way in or out.
"In order for anyone to even think about going into a confined space," he said, "they need special training and equipment." 
What is more, Mr. Hubert said, he had evidence that Pat Faria knew all about those dangers and safety laws. For one thing, he had been taught them as part of his volunteer-firefighter training. Mr. Hubert subpoenaed the man who had trained Mr. Faria in "Confined Space Awareness" in a four-hour class for firefighters in 1999. 
The trainer explained how he had taught Mr. Faria the dangers of gases in confined spaces, including how hydrogen sulfide is common in spaces where there is wastewater. The trainer said he also taught Mr. Faria about how no one should enter a confined space without an air test, safety harnesses and respirators. 
Mr. Faria had been tested on the class material. In fact, his answer sheet was given to the grand jurors. 
He passed, the trainer said. 
There was more. Pat Faria's farm had a written safety plan, just as California law required. 
"Our safety and health program," the plan stated, "will include all necessary mechanical and physical safeguards, inspections to find and eliminate unsafe working conditions or practices, training for all employees in good safety and health practices, use of personal protective equipment wherever necessary." 
The plan named Pat Faria as the farm's "safety coordinator" and made him responsible for training and equipping his employees against safety hazards. It also contained an explicit warning about manure pits: "CAUTION! Beware of dangerous gases and oxygen depletion within these structures," it stated, specifically describing the dangers of hydrogen sulfide.
This, too, went to the grand jury. 
In his closing argument, Gale Filter ticked off all the safety procedures that had been ignored. No training. No air testing. No harnesses. Not even a ladder.
"Probably the thing that's most disturbing in all of this," he said, "it's like the MasterCard commercial -- $10 for a sign; $60 for a harness; couple hundred dollars for a monitoring device. Two men's lives: priceless. It could have all been avoided for a minimum expenditure of money in a business that at times was estimated to be bringing in $85,000 a month." 
For Jose Alatorre's widow, the indictment was a balm after months of hurt, a promise of sorts that her husband's death would at least stand as a warning to other dairy farmers. 
"What were they thinking?" she asked. "They didn't give anything at all to protect them -- nothing." 
She saw it, too, as a way of evening accounts.
"They say that Faria is going to lose everything. But it is money. How about me? I lost my husband. He lost money. I lost my husband. How do you think I feel when Guillermo asks me about his dad, 'Where's Daddy at?' When I say he's not here, he asks can we go to him. I just go into my bedroom, and he watches cartoons with my brother and I go into my bedroom and cry, alone."
Enrique Araisa's mother dissolved into heaving sobs when asked about the son who had died helping Jose Alatorre. But his father, Aberlardo, eyes downcast under the brim of his Oakland Raiders cap, hands worn from picking tomatoes, spoke for them both. 
"It still doesn't bring my son back," he said.

Resentment, Then Results
It was not long before Gordon Spencer heard rumblings from powerful dairymen, including some who have been among his political supporters. "They just say, 'Well, what's going on with that case?' " 
Mr. Spencer said he sought to reassure them that "their D.A. hasn't lost their mind," that this was one of the rare cases that merited prosecution. "We've had phone conversations and we've had meetings to explain the facts," he said. "I don't know that we sold our cases in the end."
Roy Hubert has felt some of the backlash, too. He attends a synagogue in Modesto, 30 miles from Gustine. More than one member, he said, has approached him at services. One asked, "What is wrong with you?" Another, he said, asked why he was "picking on dairy people." 
Mr. Spencer had tried to defuse the backlash with some quiet diplomacy. Before the charges were announced, he called Michael L. H. Marsh, chief executive of Western United Dairymen, the largest dairy association in the state. 
"I was really shocked," Mr. Marsh said. "I indicated to him that we were of course disappointed because it just sort of compounds the tragedy -- wham, here's another shoe to drop."
The association convened an emergency board meeting, consulted with lawyers and called other dairy trade groups. "We hadn't heard of anything like this ever in the United States," he said. "The precedent that it would set -- it's just so extraordinary." 
One evening, with the sun setting over the coastal range, an elderly woman emerged from a ranch house wearing a housecoat and pink slippers. It was Madeline Faria, the mother of Pat Faria and the matriarch of the Faria clan. Her house overlooks the lagoon and the sump hole. 
"You can't get it out of your mind," she said, squinting into the sun. "I can't even look out there without thinking about those two men drowning." 
Nor can she get her mind around the image of her son in a courtroom, facing a possible prison sentence. Her son, she said, is a good and conscientious man. He worked alongside many of his employees, she pointed out. Some of their families lived on their farm. Yet now the Aguiar-Faria dairy has ceased operations, its employees let go and the land leased to another dairy operator.
"I really don't know why he wants to go after us, of all people," Ms. Faria said, referring to Roy Hubert.
But one of her other sons, clearly furious at the attention the indictments have brought to their family, shared one theory. 
"He's trying to make a name for himself," he said contemptuously. 
It is a widely held sentiment. At the Gustine Club, it is near impossible to find any printable comments about Roy Hubert and his crusade. 
But on closer inspection, there are clear indications that something important and rare has occurred here. For all the resentment stirred by the prosecutor with the bow tie, the old moral lines have begun to shift. 
On dairy farms across the valley floor, there has been a broad reassessment of safety. Farmers are hiring safety consultants, putting their workers through safety training, installing first aid kits and posting signs. 
"It makes you concerned because you think, 'Heck, he's a dairyman and I'm a dairyman, too,' " said Mark Ahlem, a young farmer in the valley.
Before the indictment, Mr. Ahlem said, "We were taking some baby steps toward setting up some regular safety meetings." 
Since the indictment, though, he has hired a part-time safety director, insisted on frequent safety meetings and established a disciplinary system for safety violations. 
Another dairy farmer, Frank Faria -- no relation to Pat Faria -- said the indictment was an "unfortunate wake-up call." He has since hired a safety consultant for his dairy operation, and feels much better for it. 
The changes are not entirely the doing of this one indictment. Cal OSHA levied $166,650 in civil fines against the Faria dairy for the two deaths, a substantial penalty for almost any farmer. The agency also conducted a sweep of the valley's dairy industry, inspecting more than 160 farms, levying nearly $500,000 in fines and offering free consultations. The Western United Dairymen held several crowded training sessions about the dangers of confined space. 
But in conversations with farmers here, it is clear that the prosecution made the deepest impression. When the Cal OSHA inspectors swept into the valley, faxes and phone calls raised the alarm from farm to farm. Some of the farmers "were kind of ornery," said William J. Krycia, the regional Cal OSHA manager. An indictment was not so easy to sidestep. 
Perhaps most telling of all, even the Farias and their friends acknowledge that dairy farms have become more conscious of safety as a result of this case.
"Nobody will go down there again in this valley without a spacesuit on," Tony Xavier said of the sump holes.
Mr. Hubert said there was no question that the prosecution had a "profound effect" on Gustine and the rest of the dairy industry in the Central Valley. 
"The important thing is the message -- that when the rules are broken in an egregious manner, we're gonna come calling, 'Hello, call your bondsman,' " he said. "This is the deterrent effect."

A Widow Apart
Angelica Alatorre cannot bring herself to wear the ring her husband gave her that anniversary morning. Every so often, though, she drives out to the Faria dairy. She walks across the flat, hard fields to the sump hole by the manure lagoon. A wooden cross stands there now, etched with his name. 
She likes to leave sunflowers. 
Ms. Alatorre says she feels increasingly isolated in Gustine. The Farias are a popular and important family here. She worries that she is somehow being blamed for the layoffs that have hit the dairy since her husband's death. 
"People who know Pat Faria, I think they're mad at me," she said. 
She has followed the criminal proceedings, but only from a distance and with great ambivalence. The trial date is in the spring, and she hopes this prosecution scares other dairy farmers enough that no one else has to die the way her husband died. And she has heard that the dairies are safer, that workers are getting more training and equipment. 
"They tell me it makes a difference," she said. 
Yet she does not see the point of sending Pat Faria to prison. He would do his time, and then what? 
"Justice," she said, sighing. "I don't know."
She took another deep breath. 
"I just don't wish for anything bad to Faria. But something has to be done."

When Workers Die
Articles in this series examine how the government deals with the worst cases of death on the job.

SUNDAY: The plumber's apprentice.
MONDAY: A culture of reluctance.
TODAY: The California way.
An interactive feature, more photographs, video and a slide show narrated by David Barstow are online at nytimes.com/national.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose and Angelica Alatorre with their son, Guillermo. (pg. A1); Jose and Angelica Alatorre were marking their first anniversary the day he died. Their baby, Guillermo, is now 3. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times); The efforts of Roy J. Hubert Jr., above, led to the indictments of the dairymen Alcino Nunes, below left, and Patrick J. Faria, right. Mr. Nunes and Mr. Faria were charged with manslaughter. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times); (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. A24); The sump hole, above, at the Aguiar-Faria dairy that claimed two lives. Below, one of the bodies as it was recovered from the hole, which is beside a lagoon, left, that collects the dairy's waste. (Photo by Robin Stein for The New York Times); (Photographs by Cal OSHA); Gustine, Calif., is dairy country, and the people who work there say that death and injury are the facts of a hard life. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. A25) Chart: "Aggressive Prosecution"California, one of 21 states that administer their own versions of OSHA, is the most aggressive criminal prosecutor of employers whose willful violations of safety rules caused the death of an employee. PERCENTAGE OF "WILLFUL VIOLATION" DEATHS PROSECUTEDFrom 1990 to 2002 CALIFORNIA: 36.2%FEDERAL OSHA: 3.9%OTHER STATE-RUN OSHA AGENCIES: 4.6% (Source by Occupational Safety and Heath Administration)(pg. A24) Map of California highlighting Gustine. (pg. A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (90%); DAIRY FARMING (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (78%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (77%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (77%); MANSLAUGHTER (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); INDICTMENTS (73%); GRAND JURY (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); MAMMALS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER (65%); FELONIES (65%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%) LABOR; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS 

ORGANIZATION: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (59%) OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: BARSTOW, DAVID; HUBERT, ROY J JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 



573 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Two Big Mortgage Agencies Are Criticized in Fed Study 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 22 

 BODY:
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the nation's two biggest mortgage buyers, receive as much as $164 billion in implicit federal subsidies but have done little to increase homeownership or reduce the cost of home loans, according to a draft study by the Federal Reserve.
 The study, released Monday, will probably intensify debate about the companies, which have come under heavy fire for their accounting practices and for the special treatment they receive as government-sponsored corporations. 
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which buy home mortgages and bundle them into large securities, were created by Congress to help expand the market for home loans and are now among the largest financial institutions in the country. They hold $1.6 trillion in assets between them, and their stocks are publicly traded. 
 The two companies receive little direct federal assistance, but they are able to borrow money at cheaper rates than other financial institutions because investors think -- perhaps incorrectly -- that the federal government will bail them out of a financial crisis.
 The Fed study estimated that this "implicit subsidy" was worth $119 billion to $164 billion to the two companies combined, far bigger than the companies themselves have estimated. But the study estimated that about half of that benefit goes to stockholders rather than to homebuyers in the form of lower mortgage rates.
 The study estimated that the loan repackaging programs of the two companies have reduced mortgage rates by only seven basis points, (a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point) meaning that standard mortgage with a rate of 6 percent would be 5.93 percent through Fannie Mae.
 The "implicit subsidy does not appear to have substantially increased home ownership or homebuilding," wrote the study's author, Wayne Passmore.
 Arne Christenson, Fannie Mae's senior vice president for regulatory policy, disputed those estimates, calling them "extremely low, highly theoretical and completely unsubstantiated by anything you see in the market."
 Mr. Christenson said the best measure of Fannie Mae's impact on mortgage rates was to compare the rates on loans that it was allowed to purchase and the so-called jumbo mortgages above $323,700 that it was prohibited from buying. The jumbo rates, he said, are often one-quarter to one-half of a percentage point higher.
 The Fed study is the latest salvo in a prolonged political battle over how to regulate the two financial institutions, both of them based in Washington.
 Competitors in the financial industry complain that the companies receive unfair competitive advantages from their special ties to the federal government.
 The companies are exempt from many standard disclosure rules imposed on other financial institutions, and the Treasury has the legal authority -- which many view as a backdoor guarantee in case of trouble -- to buy up to $2.25 billion in their mortgage-backed securities. 
 Congress and the Bush administration have been embroiled for months in debate about how best to regulate the two companies, in part because a growing number of experts worry that the companies are too exposed to a meltdown in the event interest rates rise sharply or the housing boom suddenly collapses.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have come under criticism for engaging in questionable accounting. 
 Freddie Mac is under investigation by both the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission for having understated its earnings by billions of dollars, apparently to smooth out variations between good years and bad.
 The Treasury Department has proposed putting both companies under its supervision, but the companies are fighting the plan.
 Separate from the accounting and regulatory battles, a growing number of experts argue that the two companies should not enjoy a special government status because it exposes the government to potentially big liabilities even if the companies do not officially have any federal loan guarantees.
 Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, testified this year in Congress that the two companies should not be treated differently from other institutions.
 But the companies wield considerable influence in Congress, and lawmakers have shied away from proposals to curtail their special status. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (79%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (79%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); ACCOUNTING (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); WRITERS (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%) SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 



574 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Plan Offered To Overhaul Fuel Rules For Vehicles 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
The Bush administration proposed to overhaul federal vehicle fuel economy regulations yesterday for the first time since they were created after the oil shocks of the 1970's. 
 But it is not clear to what extent, if at all, the proposals -- which are aimed at sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and minivans -- would reduce gasoline consumption or save lives, two of the main stated goals of the program. 
 The proposals, which appear in a report released by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, conform to earlier reports about the administration's plans on fuel economy, and the main tenets have been known since March. 
 The proposed changes would break the light truck fleet into either weight or size classes instead of having a single fleetwide average for all light trucks; they also might regulate light trucks that weigh more than about 5,000 pounds more stringently. Much will depend on how many weight or size classes there are and how challenging the mileage targets are for each class. 
 The report conceded that such a plan would not necessarily improve fuel economy. "It is theoretically possible the overall fuel economy of the fleet would not increase significantly or might even decline," the report said. But the proposal would bring the largest sport utilities, those over roughly 6,000 pounds unloaded, into the regulatory system for the first time.
 Such vehicles, from the Hummer to the BMW X5, currently fall outside of fuel economy regulations because the regulations were written before such large passenger S.U.V.'s became popular.
 The agency focused on light trucks because only Congress has the authority to make such changes to passenger car regulations. What was laid out, as expected, lacked specifics. A final proposal is not likely on the matter until April 2006, with much debate until then, and automakers and consumer groups say the details will largely define the outcome.
 The outline of the plan is already controversial because it is aimed at encouraging manufacturers to decrease the sizes or weights of their largest light trucks while reducing pressure to slim down smaller S.U.V.'s, pickups and minivans. 
 The way the way the administration proposes to do this is by adopting stricter fuel economy rules for the largest vehicles -- those with an unloaded weight over about 5,000 pounds, like the Hummer H2 and the Toyota Sequoia -- and more lenient rules for lighter vehicles. Reducing weight is one way, among many, to improve fuel economy. 
 The changes have more to do with saving lives than gasoline. The theory is that heavier vehicles are safer than lighter ones for their own occupants in some kinds of accidents -- though S.U.V.'s and pickup trucks are not safer than cars, as a class, because of their greater tendency to roll over. At the same time, increasing numbers of light trucks on the road present dangers for people in cars, and the largest light trucks are especially dangerous.
 The report also proposed changing the definition of a light truck in ways that would prevent carlike vehicles, like the Chrysler PT Cruiser, from being configured to fit the classification of light truck, allowing them to guzzle more gas. 
 Some of the suggested approaches could also have some of the largest cars classified as trucks and some of the lightest S.U.V.'s classified as cars. One aim is to encourage automakers to lower the center of gravity of some of their smallest S.U.V.'s to make them more stable; currently, one way to have a vehicle classified as a light truck is by raising its height from the ground.
 "It's really a safety proposal," said Dr. Jeffrey W. Runge, the administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, adding that improving fuel economy and energy security was a goal of the plan, but secondary to safety. 
 "If you had to make a choice between any of the goals, it's more about safety than anything else," he added. "Having said that, if we are able to reform the structure, then the debate begins on how stringent the standards should be."
 Dr. Runge, a former emergency room physician, has already pushed the industry to work jointly on design changes in sport utilities and pickup trucks that make them less dangerous for car passengers in collisions. Last month, automakers announced the first in what is expected to be a series of plans to alter the design of S.U.V.'s and pickup trucks. 
 Booming sales of S.U.V.'s and full-sized pickup trucks have pushed the fuel economy of the average new vehicle sold in the United States to its lowest point in 22 years, according to the most recent data released by the government. Improvements in engine and design technology have been used to increase horsepower, but not to broadly improve fuel economy. 
 Environmental and consumer advocacy groups have said they like the idea of a system that would press for the largest vehicles to become smaller. But they have said they would oppose any plan that encourages lighter S.U.V.'s and pickups to become larger. Giving automakers incentives to make S.U.V.'s and pickups heavier than they already are will not improve safety for other people on the road and would probably increase fuel consumption, they say. 
 "I think they've been very crafty in the way they wrote it," said Dan Becker, an energy expert at the Sierra Club. "The loophole the Bush administration is proposing to close may move us one step forward, but the loophole that they propose to open for the auto industry will likely move us three steps back."
 Eron Shosteck, a spokesman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, said: "They've painted some broad strokes, but we need to see the fine print. We can't give a detailed assessment until we see a detailed proposal."
 An interagency group comprising representatives from across the Bush administration, including Dr. Runge, has been working on the proposals for at least nine months.
 Environmental groups and consumer advocates have expressed skepticism about the process and its chairman, John Graham, the regulations administrator of the Office of Management and Budget. Mr. Graham, a former Harvard professor, has long argued that fuel regulations have cost thousands of American lives because they have encouraged manufacturers to make cars that are too light. Auto lobbyists frequently cite his work, which was partly financed by automakers.
 Other researchers and consumer advocates say the current problem is not that vehicles are too light but that trucks are becoming too heavy. 
 Corporate average fuel economy standards were created in the 1970's. Under the current system, each automaker's annual fleet of new passenger cars must average 27.5 miles per gallon. Each company's light truck fleet must average 21.2 miles per gallon in the 2005 model year and 22.2 by 2007. 
 Since the regulations were created, the auto industry has created whole new classes of vehicles that met the definition of light trucks, including sport utilities and minivans, but are often used like family cars. Light trucks are now more than half of new-vehicle sales, up from a fifth in 1980. Pickup trucks are also increasingly being marketed as family vehicles that have seating and luxuries comparable to an S.U.V. 
 The Big Three domestic automakers depend on light trucks for their profits. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the Bush administration's proposals to overhaul rules on vehicle fuel economy included a sport utility vehicle erroneously among those that fall outside of current regulations. The BMW X5 is subject to current rules.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); MINIVANS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); GASOLINE (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); PRODUCT SAFETY (75%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); TRUCKING (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%) AUTOMOBILES; FUEL EFFICIENCY; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (83%) NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 



575 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: Feeling the Strain From Stretching the Paycheck 

BYLINE:  By CONSTANCE L. HAYS; Anne Berryman, Lisa Bruno, Matthew Preusch and David Wethe contributed reporting for this article. 

 BODY:
It's Christmastime, and Dawn Murphy of Long Beach, N.Y., is pushing a cart loaded with presents, coats and her two small daughters up and down the aisles of a Wal-Mart in nearby Valley Stream, thinking about how she will pay for everything she wants to give.
 "We literally live by a budget, so we don't have any extra spending money," she said, selecting an angel ornament from a shelf. "Right now I'm taking money out of my food budget to cover Christmas." That food budget is $100 a week "and a lot of coupons." She gravitates to Wal-Mart because of the store's layaway plan, which requires 10 percent down and grants 60 days to pay the rest before the purchases can be taken home. Her husband's year-end bonus from his job as an office manager will help with the other 90 percent. 
 "That's the only way I can do it," she said. "Other stores, like Kohl's, don't have that, and it makes shopping that much more difficult." Living from paycheck to paycheck is the norm in the United States, economists say, and Wal-Mart's cash registers offer some proof of that. For more than a year, the retailer says, it has detected spikes in sales twice a month, around the 1st and the 15th, which is about the time that many people are paid. Visits to Wal-Marts around the country last week, at the height of the holiday shopping season, found many shoppers feeling squeezed -- the Murphys on Long Island, the Dukes family in Georgia, the Lawrences and the Olsons near Seattle, and others as well.
 "For many Americans, especially those with children who are living paycheck to paycheck, Christmas is seen as a time of financial crisis," said Stephen Brobeck, executive director of the Consumer Federation of America, an advocacy and education organization in Washington. "The group has grown as the result of rising unemployment and increasing consumer debt." 
 Though there are some signs that the economy is healing -- in the form of bigger Wall Street bonuses, for example, and increasing corporate profits -- income has remained mostly flat for many workers, leading to a discrepancy between gift-giving ambitions and what people can actually afford to give. 
 "Even though you can point to improving economic indicators, one conspicuous omission from that list is wage growth," said Jared Bernstein, senior economist for the Economic Policy Institute, a research group in Washington. "And that's where most working families meet the economy." 
 Mrs. Murphy said her husband used to work in Manhattan, where the pay is better. His job was across from the World Trade Center. On Sept. 11, 2001, Mrs. Murphy said, he saw the first plane hit, walked out of his building and never went back. 
 Mrs. Murphy dresses in hand-me-downs and uses her birthday money from relatives to buy Christmas gifts. The Murphys' lone credit card always has an outstanding balance. Life has been that way since they married, five years ago, she said, and there are no signs that it will change anytime soon. 
 Kimsey Dukes, 44, a factory worker at the Southwire Company, a cable maker in Carrollton, Ga., is paid every Thursday. Even so, he said he often felt that he had "to rob Peter to pay Paul" to keep his household, which includes five children and his disabled wife, running smoothly. 
 "I try to put in overtime whenever they let me," Mr. Dukes said. Still, "some things you let go," he added. "I sometimes have to put paying bills off until the next pay period." For four years, ever since his wife, Sharon, had to stop working because of a degenerative bone disease and carpal tunnel syndrome, the family has lived on a tight budget. Christmas lists from the children, who range in age from 10 to 21, can mean difficult decisions. This year, the youngest yearns for a PlayStation 2, while two of the girls have asked for drawing paper for their art projects. 
 Dallas Sumbles, a 22-year-old Navy aircraft mechanic who shops at a Wal-Mart in Jacksonville, Fla., is paid every other week, and that can be hard, even with military subsidies. "Three days after I get paid, the money is gone," he said. "We live on the base, buy our food at the Navy Exchange, pay for our cars and insurance and then do nothing until two weeks later when the next paycheck comes." 
 He and his wife, Nicki, used to have a Wal-Mart credit card, but that did not turn out well, he said, and now they owe more than $1,000. "We cannot pay anything on the balance," he said. Nor can they afford to give each other Christmas presents this year, Nicki Sumbles said, but their children will get gifts and the couple may go out to dinner. 
 Wal-Mart, which is based in Bentonville, Ark., began its layaway plan in 1962 with its first store. This year it began cashing payroll checks and government-issued checks for a fee, in a program that has already spread to 20 states and is expected to be available nationwide by next year. It began "as another form of convenience at the register," said Melissa Berryhill, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman. At the same time, she added, "we are aware that we have some customers who don't have bank accounts."
 All those shoppers spending, on payday and beyond, builds the success of Wal-Mart and the other discounters. But the power of these companies, especially Wal-Mart, the world's biggest retailer, may at the same time be flattening those shoppers' earnings as its cut-rate sensibility spreads to other employers, including the makers of the products and services sold there. 
 "Wal-Mart is a double-edged sword, and both edges are quite sharp," Mr. Bernstein of the Economic Policy Institute said. "On the price side, consumers wouldn't flood Wal-Mart if there wasn't something there they liked, the low prices. On the other hand, by sticking solidly to the low-wage path, they create tons of low-quality jobs that dampen wage and income growth, not just for those who work in Wal-Mart but for surrounding communities as well." 
 It is a cycle that sustains itself. Edward Wolff, a professor of economics at New York University, said the shift to discount stores "reflects the growing financial strain on families." He added: "Part of the growth in Wal-Mart and discount stores in general is being generated by the stagnation in wages." As the economy has slowed, discount stores gain sales, often at the expense of department stores and specialty retailers. 
 At the layaway counter at a Wal-Mart in Marysville, Wash., Julie Lawrence, 41, who lives on $800 a month in disability checks, was putting her gifts, including a pair of boots, a sweater and a DVD player, on layaway. There was more that she wanted, but "I have to put it back because I know I can't buy it," she said. 
 The line at the counter included Michelle Olson, 30, who is feeling the pain from waves of Boeing job cuts in the Puget Sound area over the last two years. She runs a child care center with her husband, a machinist with a Boeing subcontractor, and business has not been good. 
 "Obviously, we have a lot of Boeing families and they are laid off; therefore they don't need child care," she said. Her husband, accustomed to a $6,000 bonus, got just half that this year. They will use it to pay for their Christmas shopping, but there will be nothing left over to pay down their debts. "Most of my friends, honestly, are in the same boat," Mrs. Olson said.
Linda Karpowich, a Stamford, Conn., mother of two, has been living on one income, her husband's weekly salary from his florist business, ever since she stopped working to be home with their two young daughters. "You're just more conscientious," she said of the adjustment as she filled her cart at a Wal-Mart in nearby Norwalk. 
 The search for bargains leads in many directions for some shoppers. Zarrie Adkins, a truck driver and father of five from Watauga, Tex., near Fort Worth, shops the discount circuit and has become an expert on the selection at pawn shops and other secondhand sources, especially for big-ticket items like video game hardware. 
 Recently, his son wanted a PlayStation 2 console, but that was out of Mr. Adkins's reach. So he bought the older version, which disappointed his son, although he eventually got over it. This year, Xbox consoles, new bicycles and a DVD player are on his children's wish lists. Mr. Adkins will do what he can, but the DVD player and the bicycles will not be under the tree. 
 "If I can't afford it, well, I just can't afford to get them," he said. And furthermore, "I can't afford to worry about it.'

GRAPHIC: Photo: Linda Karpowich of Stamford, Conn., with her 9-month-old daughter Mia outside a Wal-Mart in Norwalk. She has been living on her husband's income since she quit her job to be with their two daughters. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); FAMILY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); SALES FINANCING (69%); PERSONAL DEBT (63%); CONSUMER LENDING (61%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (60%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (75%)

ORGANIZATION: WAL-MART STORES INC 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (75%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (75%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (75%) SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (50%) HAYS, CONSTANCE L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 



576 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
Cheap Hotel Rooms via a Mouse and a Leap of Faith

BYLINE:  By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
Terrell B. Jones, the founder and former chief executive of Travelocity, usually books hotel rooms on Priceline.com for his business trips to New York. He has used the service six times since he left Travelocity in May 2002, paying about $120 a night to stay at the Melrose, the Roosevelt, the Hilton and the Grand Hyatt and $150 at the Waldorf-Astoria, not including taxes or service charges.
 Mr. Jones is one of a growing number of business travelers who reserve rooms on Priceline and its smaller rival, Hotwire.com, despite the complexity of the transactions and the restrictions they carry on hotel loyalty-program benefits. 
"I use Priceline because I know I can get an excellent price within a quality range I like in roughly the geographic area I want to be in," he said. "And if I'm calling on customers, which I do in New York, it's my nickel." 
 Both Priceline and Hotwire operate what are called opaque Web sites, where travelers do not know which hotel they are booking until they have paid for it. This feature encourages hotel chains to give the Web sites access to rooms; they think they are not undercutting their brand or hurting their rate structure if their identity is concealed until the purchase is made. 
 Priceline offers rates at more than 10,000 hotels around the world that it says are 40 percent cheaper on average than the lowest rates on Web sites like Travelocity.com, Expedia.com and Hotels.com. Hotwire says its discounts, at 7,000 hotels in North America, are 45 percent lower on average than the cheapest published rates. 
 Under Priceline's system, travelers choose a neighborhood in the city they will be visiting and specify a hotel rating category, the number of stars they prefer, and then make a bid. If Priceline accepts the bid, it makes the booking, which cannot be changed or canceled. If it rejects it, travelers must submit a new bid. By contrast, Hotwire shows travelers rates of unidentified hotels in various neighborhoods and star categories; it, too, forbids changes or cancellations once a selection is made.
 The two sites' popularity with business travelers is growing along with that of other online travel companies. A 2002 study by Forrester Research showed that 14.2 percent of those who took 20 or more business trips a year used Priceline, up from 12.7 percent in the previous year's survey; 3.4 percent booked through Hotwire, up from 2 percent; 15.6 percent used Travelocity, up from 13.6 percent, and 14.1 percent made their reservations over Expedia, up from 11.8 percent.
 "Priceline and Hotwire are the dirty little secret of business travel," said Henry Harteveldt, principal analyst at Forrester. "Smart business travelers trying to save money use them for hotels, especially in a recessionary environment and particularly if they do not have a corporate travel manager. You would think frequent travelers would be more likely to belong to hotel loyalty programs and that points would matter to them, but for a good number of road warriors, saving money on hotels remains paramount."
 For others, it is not, said Josh Feuerstein, vice president for hotels at Travelocity. "Because a purchase on Priceline and Hotwire is nonrefundable," he said, "they are likely to scare away all but the most price-sensitive business traveler. A lot of business travelers want to know exactly where they're sleeping and what their room looks like. With Travelocity, they know."
 Before booking on Priceline or Hotwire, their devotees recommend reviewing the rates listed on the Web sites of hotel chains as well as of Travelocity, Expedia, Orbitz and Hotels.com. They also suggest talking to people who have used their services and going to consumer forums like BiddingForTravel.com, BetterBidding.com and FlyerTalk. They also like to boast about the deals they got.
 For example, Jeff McKinnon, a former Air Canada executive who now studies computer science in Halifax, Nova Scotia, got rooms at the Marriott in Dayton, Ohio, twice last January for less than $35 a night -- a third of the $105 he paid at the same hotel a month earlier for a room that he booked on Marriott's Web site.
 Randolph Mah, an engineering manager in Sacramento, for Intel, has used Priceline some 20 times in the last year to book rooms, usually at Hyatt hotels; a diamond-level participant in Hyatt's loyalty program, he has tried to bid on the chain's hotels to maintain his elite status. Since January, he has paid $52 a night to stay at the Hyatt Regency in Washington, which he said was less than half what the hotel was asking, and he stayed at the Hyatt Regency San Francisco for $60, when the hotel's rate was $189.
 The sites have disadvantages. Priceline's booking process can be time-consuming, and bidders are not always successful. Reservations must be paid for in advance, and "if your plans change, you're in trouble," said Thom Nulty, a California corporate travel consultant, adding, "I wait to book until I'm 100 percent sure my meeting is going to happen." 
 Another drawback: Many hotel companies say they do not provide loyalty program benefits, like credits for room nights, points for dollars spent, or amenities like free breakfast or the use of concierge floors, to program participants who book through Priceline or Hotwire.
 However, these restrictions seem to be applied inconsistently, as Ken Leiter, a marketing executive in Secaucus, N.J., who is a Priceline customer and an elite-level participant in the Starwood, Hyatt and Hilton loyalty programs, found. "I usually don't get credit for my stays," he said. "Starwood does give other benefits like room upgrades and concierge-floor access, but this will stop on Jan. 1. Hyatt gives benefits like upgrades and free breakfasts now but didn't before, and Hilton doesn't officially, though some of their hotels do."
 Mr. Mah said he had received credit for stays at Hyatt hotels booked through Priceline as long as he has charged something to his room. But since September, he has found it "a lot more difficult to try to predict which hotels I'll end up with on Priceline; before that, it was pretty easy to get a Hyatt. Hilton and Sheraton are still readily available."
 Another predicament for Mr. Mah: Intel is getting stricter about employees using its corporate travel agency, rather than booking trips on their own. "Next year they will start buckling down, so for business trips that will probably be the end of my using Priceline," he said. 
 Priceline, eager to stay in the good graces of the hotel chains whose rooms it needs, says it tries to limit the number of business travelers who use its services. For example, it says it raises rates or redefines neighborhoods to make the bidding process less predictable if it finds that too many business travelers are booking specific hotels. Industry experts, though, say they have seen little evidence of such activity.
 Once the economy improves markedly and travel demand strengthens, Mr. Harteveldt predicts that such restrictions will become more prevalent, which he said "will force business travelers out of Hotwire and Priceline."
Other experts, though, like Richard W. Gray, chairman and co-chief executive of TravelClick, a hotel consulting company in Schaumburg, Ill., expect the Web sites to retain their hold on budget-conscious business travelers.
 And Bjorn Hanson, who oversees the hospitality practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers, says travel policies at many corporations are in a period of transition that could ultimately be promising to both Priceline and Hotwire. 
 "Some companies are telling their employees that if you don't spend more than the hotel rate we have negotiated you can stay wherever you want, while others are going to a per-diem model," he said. Either way, he said, business travelers will be free to book rooms through Priceline or Hotwire. 

Readers are invited to send stories about business travel experiences to businesstravel@nytimes.com.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Terrell Jones, Travelocity's former chief, working at his computer last week on a condo balcony in Aptos, Calif. (Photo by Susan Ragan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (75%); LOYALTY MARKETING (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); WEB SITES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HOTELS.COM LP (90%); HYATT HOTELS CORP (90%); EXPEDIA INC (74%); PRICELINE.COM INC (58%); HOTWIRE INC (57%); TRAVELOCITY.COM INC (54%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (90%); EXPE (NASDAQ) (74%); PCLN (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (90%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (90%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (90%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (74%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (74%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 



577 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Strangely Hopeful in a World of War and Caprice 

BYLINE:  By NANCY RAMSEY 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
Errol Morris, the documentary filmmaker, sees himself as "a compulsive investigator," fascinated by history. And he remains obsessed with the Vietnam War, an event that affected his own life and generation.
 Now he has investigated that traumatic episode in "The Fog of War: Eleven Lessons From the Life of Robert S. McNamara," which opened on Dec. 19 in New York and Los Angeles. 
 Mr. McNamara's life is emblematic of the country, Mr. Morris said in an interview. "It's a familiar American story, a Horatio Alger story that comes to some twisted end -- a self-made man whose parents didn't finish high school, who rises to the very, very top: a professor at Harvard Business School, the president of Ford, the secretary of defense in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, the president of the World Bank." 
"You also get the feeling of a person who operated with good intentions," Mr. Morris added, speaking at his production company here, the Globe Department Store, with his French bulldog, Jackpot, snoozing nearby in a chair. "To say that he's devoid of ethical or moral sensibilities, I find that too easy, yet he became mired in some truly, truly horrendous things."
Mr. McNamara, who was 85 when interviewed, talks a lot in the film: about World War II, in which he served with Gen. Curtis E. LeMay, making decisions that led to the firebombing of Japanese cities and the deaths of thousands of civilians. He talks about the Cuban missile crisis: "At the end we lucked out. It was luck that prevented nuclear war." He talks about the Vietnam War, including the events leading up to the Gulf of Tonkin resolution of 1964, "the language of which gave complete authority to the president to take the nation to war." 
While on aggressive patrol, the American destroyer Maddox had reported being attacked by two torpedoes fired by North Vietnamese boats. Two days later a second attack was reported involving the Maddox and the destroyer C. Turner Joy, although the circumstances of the incident were ambiguous and, as presented in the film, what was believed to be an attack had probably been caused by "freak weather effects on radar." The question was whether there was sufficient evidence to justify President Lyndon B. Johnson's action in calling for the Tonkin Gulf resolution.
In talking about the Tonkin Gulf, Mr. Morris was improbably reminded of his second film, "Vernon, Florida," set in the panhandle. "Vernon" features quirky characters like a turkey hunter paddling his boat around in a swamp wishing there were as many turkeys out there as there were buzzards and a couple who show the camera a jar of sand, which they believe is growing. 
"There's a richness of themes there that capture a lot of my thinking," Mr. Morris said. "Life being a kind of dream, an odd quest, a strange hopefulness that inhabits people."
Believing in a second attack in the Gulf of Tonkin with the possibility that none occurred "is like wishing there were more turkeys out there," said Mr. Morris, whose curiosity is relentless and, he will add, "obsessive."
"The Fog of War" reflects the sensibility of someone who came of age in the 1960's and demonstrated against the Vietnam War. He studied physics, history and philosophy, attending Princeton, Berkeley and the University of Wisconsin, the last two known hotbeds of student radicalism. Now 55, he lives peaceably in Cambridge with his wife and son. He has interviewed a diverse spectrum of subjects from Stephen Hawking in "A Brief History of Time" to a man wrongly convicted of murder in "The Thin Blue Line" to the designer of execution devices who serves as a witness for Holocaust deniers in "Mr. Death: The Rise and Fall of Fred A. Leuchter Jr." 
His latest film, "The Fog of War," is stylish. Images from Vietnam are not the usual ones. Memos and documents from World War II written in Mr. McNamara's hand illustrate the narrative. Eerie music by Philip Glass is affecting. ("If you're looking for existential dread, look no further," Mr. Morris said. "Philip Glass is your man.")
Mr. McNamara digresses, laughs at himself, cries when he remembers helping to pick out a grave site in Arlington Cemetery for President John F. Kennedy. "I have this style of letting people talk, of not having a specific agenda, not knowing what you're going to hear," he said.
Along the way, Mr. McNamara makes some startling statements; the one that has gotten the most attention is his memory of a conversation with General LeMay during World War II: "LeMay said, 'If we'd lost the war, we'd all have been prosecuted as war criminals.' And I think he's right. But what makes it immoral if you lose and not immoral if you win?"
Speaking by phone from Washington, Mr. McNamara still sounds a little surprised that he actually agreed to do the film. He called the whole idea insane.
"For 40 years I've been doing TV, and I've never done anything like this," Mr. McNamara said. He agreed to a one-hour interview for the documentary, which became 2, then 8 and finally 24. 
"I don't think he had a particular story line," he said of Mr. Morris. "We just talked. Errol's such an extraordinary, interesting conversationalist." But Mr. McNamara said he liked the film, and the two have appeared together at the Telluride Film Festival and on "Charlie Rose."
"This is not just a film about McNamara," said Peter Hall, who teaches political science at the Center for European Studies at Harvard and is a friend of Mr. Morris. "I think it's a film about moral confusion. It's a rumination on the human condition. McNamara is the original whiz kid from the American automobile industry, a statistician in World War II. His natural instincts seems to be to seek guidance from the facts. But he discovers that in the midst of war it's not clear what is a fact and what is not a fact. And that facts provide no clear guide to moral action."
Mr. Morris said his feelings about the war had not changed. "I found it appalling then, and I find it appalling now." But Mr. McNamara, whom he's grown to like and talks to often, is "engaged in a deep question: 'Am I a good man or a bad man? What does my life mean?' "
To those who think that Mr. McNamara is "not tortured about the past," Mr. Morris said, "I would respectfully disagree."
"One of the things I find deeply fascinating about McNamara's account, his life in public service, is the element of caprice," he added. "On the one hand people believe everything is directed, everything is controlled. My own two cents' worth of opinion is that most things are deeply out of control."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert S. McNamara, left, and the filmmaker Errol Morris. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (88%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WORLD WAR II (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); EVIDENCE (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); ETHICS (66%); SPORT HUNTING (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (53%) MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%) MORRIS, ERROL; MCNAMARA, ROBERT S; RAMSEY, NANCY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (88%); JAPAN (79%)

TITLE: FOG OF WAR, THE (MOVIE)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 



578 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Reading, Writing and Running for President 

BYLINE:  By Chip Fleischer; Chip Fleischer is the publisher of Steerforth Press.

DATELINE: SOUTH ROYALTON, Vt. 

 BODY:
Political forecasts are about as reliable as book sales forecasts -- which is to say, not very. Election Day is the only poll that matters, politicians are fond of saying, while publishers will always prefer good sales to good reviews.
 Using book sales to predict political fortunes, then, is an enterprise fraught with peril. Yet it may be no more foolish than using fund-raising totals or assessments of grass-roots support. And since seven of the nine Democratic candidates have published a book in the last year -- the exceptions are Richard Gephardt and Carol Moseley Braun -- the impulse to read the book-sales barometer is irresistible. 
 First, a few caveats. Book sales, to borrow an economist's phrase, may be a lagging indicator: past sales are no guarantee of future appeal. In addition, book sales can reflect notoriety as much as popularity; curiosity doesn't always translate into votes. Finally, in the interest of full disclosure, I should note that my own company published a book about Howard Dean last month.
So how are the candidates faring in the literary battle for voters' hearts and minds? The chart accompanying this article tells the story. While the figures are a one-week snapshot of demand from the Ingram Book Group, the world's largest book wholesaler, they accurately reflect how each title has fared in recent weeks according to different industry databases that track bookstore and consumer demand. The numbers may reveal some hidden strengths for Dr. Dean -- and may recommend some strategies for his opponents.
The candidates' books can be divided into two broad categories. The first is pure campaign fodder focused on issues and autobiography, which covers Dr. Dean's "Winning Back America," John Kerry's "Call to Service," Dennis Kucinich's "Prayer for America" and Al Sharpton's "Al on America." The other books have a more narrow focus: Wesley Clark's "Winning Modern Wars"; John Edwards's "Four Trials," an account of his experiences as a medical malpractice and personal injury lawyer; and Joseph Lieberman's "Amazing Adventure," an account of the 2000 campaign written with his wife, Hadassah.
When you scan the list, some obvious questions leap to mind. If Dennis Kucinich doesn't have a prayer of winning the nomination, for instance, then why is "A Prayer for America" selling so well? Part of the answer has to do with context as much as content. Mr. Kucinich is a standard- bearer for progressives and liberals, and the current political climate has been great for the sales of books by liberal gadflies -- Noam Chomsky, Gore Vidal, Al Franken, Molly Ivins and the like.
But what do sales figures for the works by other candidates say about their prospects? Pure political tracts, like Dr. Dean's and Mr. Kerry's, are notoriously risky undertakings for publishers. If readers aren't interested in the author's candidacy, they have no reason to buy the book. According to this formula, Mr. Kerry's campaign can already be written off.
In all fairness, Mr. Lieberman's memoir is not about this year's campaign, and it was published in January. Still, its sales figures are numbing: in November, demand at Ingram was a grand total of seven copies. (Even Mr. Gephardt's book, "An Even Better Place," which was published in 1999 and is nearly impossible to find, had greater demand than that.) The reading public's lack of interest in Mr. Lieberman's story should be more worrisome to him than Al Gore's recent snub.
Strategists for the Clark and Edwards campaigns should take note that, by the barometer of book sales, their candidates stand the best chance to take on Dr. Dean after the campaign leaves Iowa and New Hampshire and moves to the South. More than a third of Mr. Clark's sales are in the South, according to Nielsen Book-Scan, a sales-tracking service for the publishing industry, while 51 percent of Mr. Edwards's sales come from there.
Still, if book sales are any indication, Dr. Dean may poll better than expected in the South. According to BookScan, "Winning Back America" is selling slightly better in the South than in either the Northeast or the Pacific, two regions generally regarded to be supportive of Dr. Dean. A quarter of Dr. Dean's overall sales are in the South.
It's also possible that some readers of Mr. Clark's and Mr. Edward's books buy them for the military or legal drama -- not the political stuff. Their purchases may not necessarily betray a political affinity. Buyers of Dr. Dean's book, in contrast, are clearly interested in his candidacy.
Whether Americans will vote the way they read remains to be seen, of course. But so far Howard Dean is faring as well in the bookstore as he is on the campaign trail.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paula Scher) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BOOK SALES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BOOK & PERIODICAL WHOLESALERS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); PUBLISHING TRADE (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); LAWYERS (70%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (60%); PERSONAL INJURY (60%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; SALES 

COMPANY: INGRAM BOOK GROUP INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: DENNIS KUCINICH (89%); JOHN KERRY (89%); AL SHARPTON (84%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); AL FRANKEN (59%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) FLEISCHER, CHIP; DEAN, HOWARD (DR); KUCINICH, DENNIS J (REP); CLARK, WESLEY K (GEN) (RET); EDWARDS, JOHN R (SEN); SHARPTON, AL (REV); KERRY, JOHN (SEN); LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN)#100T031225SL04A01# 

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 



579 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-16

China Moves to Protect Private Property Rights
China's national legislature moved to amend the Constitution to protect private property rights, the first time the ruling Communist Party has formally protected private wealth since taking power. A1

Attack Kills 2 U.S. Soldiers
Two American soldiers and their Iraqi interpreter were killed when a bomb exploded near their convoy, military officials said. Two other soldiers were wounded. American soldiers also captured a former high-ranking intelligence officer in Saddam Hussein's government, Maj. Gen. Mumtaz al-Taji, military officials said. A10

Russia has offered to forgive more than half of Iraq's $8 billion debt to Russia, officials of the Iraqi interim government said. The Iraqis signaled, in turn, that Russia would have the chance to revive oil contracts signed during the Saddam Hussein era. A10

As a special envoy for the Reagan administration in 1984, Donald H. Rumsfeld went to Iraq to persuade officials there that the United States was eager to improve ties with President Saddam Hussein despite his use of chemical weapons, newly declassified documents show. A10

Egyptian Minister Is Assaulted
After meeting with Israel's leaders, Egypt's foreign minister, Ahmed Maher, was heckled and then set upon by a group of about 20 Islamic radicals in one of Islam's holiest mosques. He suffered no serious injuries, but the episode reflected the tensions in the Arab world over the Middle East peace process. A3

A Tough Year for Powell
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell has had a year of mixed success in trying to placate American allies over the Iraq war. He seems determined nonetheless to counter the perception that diplomacy has been marginalized in an administration obsessed with war and terrorism. A1

NATIONAL A18-25

Earthquake Hits California; Two Dead, Millions Rattled
At least two people were killed when a strong earthquake struck a central California town, causing a downtown building to collapse, knocking out power to thousands of people and swaying skyscrapers from Los Angeles to San Francisco. A18

Dairy Deaths Prompt Lawyers
A group of prosecutors for a special unit of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration are trying to prosecute the owners of a California dairy farm for the deaths of two illegal Mexican immigrants who drowned in a deep hole filled with manure and wastewater. A1

Juvenile Sentence Raises Doubt
While a 14-year-old Maine youth serves a 30-month sentence in a maximum-security juvenile facility on an arson conviction, his parents and lawyer argue that his case was tried in federal courts because the boathouse he set fire to housed a boat engine belonging to former President George Bush. A1

U.S. Blocks Canadian Drugs
Federal authorities will not allow the state of Illinois to buy prescription drugs from Canada, even as a small test program, because they cannot ensure the safety of those drugs, officials from the Health and Human Services Department said. A18

Limbaugh Cites Blackmail Plot
A one-time housekeeper for Rush Limbaugh who told Florida law enforcement authorities she and her husband illegally supplied him prescription pain pills was blackmailing him in return for their silence, Mr. Limbaugh's lawyers said. A22

Clark Assails Bush Strategy
Gen. Wesley K. Clark blamed "bad leadership" by President Bush for the nation's heightened antiterrorism alert status, saying that it was a "strategic mistake" to shift resources to Iraq from the hunt for Osama bin Laden. A20

The Bush administration is considering extending its heightened terror alert into the new year. A23

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

As Deadline Approaches, A Wave of Applications
A remarkable surge of last-minute applications to the government's ambitious but much-criticized effort to compensate the relatives of Sept. 11 victims resulted in close to 95 percent of those eligible applying. A1

Hillary Clinton's Talking Tour
There was a time when Hillary Rodham Clinton, did her best to fade into the woodwork and be seen as just another lawmaker on Capitol Hill. But these days, the woman who started her Senate candidacy with a "listening tour" cannot stop talking, or so it seems to politicians and strategists in both parties. A1

Plan to Save Muslim Group
The nation's largest group of black Muslims was plunged into disarray this year when its founder resigned. Now, an unknown Newark high school teacher says he can revive the organization. B4

Neediest Cases B6

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F6

FASHION B10

OBITUARIES C14

ARTS E1-10

SPORTS D1-6

Knicks Fire Layden, Hire Thomas
The New York Knicks, struggling with a 10-18 record and playing before empty seats at Madison Square Garden, fired Scott Layden, their president and general manager, and replaced him with the former all-star Isiah Thomas. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

New Proposal on Fuel Economy
The Bush administration proposed the first overhaul of federal fuel economy regulations since the 1970's, but it is not clear to what extent the proposals would reduce gas consumption or save lives. C1

Bank Settles in Enron Case
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce agreed to abandon almost an entire line of business for at least three years and pay $80 million in penalties in a settlement of charges stemming from Enron's collapse. C1

United Halts Deal With Mesa
United Airlines ended an agreement to make the Mesa Airlines Group its East Coast regional carrier if Mesa succeeded in a takeover bid for Atlantic Coast Airlines. C2

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Pakistan's nuclear commerce; occupational hazards; terrorism and liberty; the unseen homeless.

Columns: Paul Krugman, David Brooks.

Crossword E8
Weather D7
Public Lives B2
TV Listings E8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PROPERTY LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POWER FAILURES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); EARTHQUAKES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (71%); RELIGION (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (65%); SENTENCING (65%); FIRES (64%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (63%); ARSON (62%); DAIRY FARMING (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); CANADA (92%); EGYPT (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 



580 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Congress Rejects Tax Changes 

BYLINE:  By JOHN MOODY

 BODY:
The Mexican Congress has ended President Vicente Fox's hopes for a tax overhaul this year, scuttling a proposal aimed at raising one of the lowest rates of collection in Latin America.
 Late Sunday, the lower house's finance committee yet again rejected the president's proposals, leaving the government no time to present a new package before the end of the year. 
 Mr. Fox was visibly angry after the latest of his economic reforms foundered in a divided legislature. "This is a historic mistake in tax matters," he said in a televised speech. "There are political forces that put the interests of factions ahead of those of the country." 
 The Mexican economy has barely grown since Mr. Fox took office in 2000 after ending 71 years of one-party rule by the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI as it is known in Mexico.
 The poor performance of the United States economy has been one factor holding Mexico back, but the country has also suffered from the departure of many companies to Asia, where it is cheaper to manufacture goods like televisions and computers.
 Mr. Fox hoped to collect more taxes to spend on education, infrastructure, poverty relief and health. Mexico collects just 12 percent of its gross domestic product in taxes, less than half the percentage that other large Latin American countries like Brazil and Argentina manage.
 Since taking power, the president has tried repeatedly to get the legislature to pass investment-friendly measures to try to jump-start the economy, and has been blocked by the opposition PRI every time. Initiatives from allowing foreign investment in the energy sector to diluting the power of unions to make it easier to hire and fire workers have all been blocked. 
 The latest proposal would have extended a 6 percent value-added tax to food and medicine, a move that some legislators contended would be too hard on Mexico's poor and working families. 
 The administration favored the extended tax to thwart the common practice of categorizing other goods, like luxury cars, as food and medicine to avoid sales taxes. That practice aside, in a country where tax evasion is rampant, consumption taxes are much easier to collect than income taxes.
 The defeat left the president looking outmaneuvered by old-school politicians yet again, and extinguished some of the remaining glow that accompanied his election.
 "The risk here is of mediocrity because we can see that the regime hasn't advanced," said Lorenzo Meyer, a political scientist at the Colegio de Mexico, a university in Mexico City. "The democracy Fox brought us is democracy lite." 
 Mr. Fox argued that the rejection of his proposal would hurt poor people most. "This decision delays the possibility of sparking growth, generating jobs and investing more in infrastructure, energy, schools, hospitals and extending social security," Mr. Fox said. "Speaking clearly and without beating around the bush, to confront the poverty in which millions of Mexicans live."
 The debate over the tax reform was so fierce it cost the leader of the PRI in Congress, Elba Esther Gordillo, her job. She and a splinter group of the PRI backed the tax reform proposals, but a larger group, including the party's president, Roberto Madrazo, crushed the initiative with the help of smaller left-wing parties.
 The split in the PRI, still the largest party in Congress, may also make it impossible for Mr. Fox ever to reach an agreement with it and get any reforms approved, leaving him a lame duck.
The PRI itself may disintegrate with the power struggle going on inside the party right now, some analysts say.
 "The PRI may disappear because it is a nondemocratic party and because there is a naked fight for power within that makes it unpredictable," Mr. Meyer said. "But today it is a risk to the country and we are in a game where everybody is losing."
 Congress will now spend the last week of the year struggling to put together a budget. Under Mexican law, the government automatically shuts down on Jan. 1 if it does not have a new budget. 
 The budget is expected to be similar to last year's, with a deficit of 0.5 percent of gross domestic product. However, Mexican government accounting leaves the borrowing and spending of state-owned companies off the balance sheet, bringing the budget deficit most years closer to 4 percent of the economy, according to economists.
 Mr. Fox, however, vowed to fight on in his attempts to change Mexico's economy. 
 "Mexico is bigger than the interests of one group," he said. "As president, I will keep fighting the necessary battles." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mexico's president, Vicente Fox, has been stymied in his efforts to collect more tax revenue. He accused his legislative opponents of putting factional interests ahead of national interests. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX REFORM (91%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (89%); SALES TAX (89%); VALUE ADDED TAX (78%); EXCISE TAX (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); TAX FRAUD (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); FAMILY (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (63%); LUXURY GOODS (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (96%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 



581 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: For Mrs. Clinton, Listening Subsides; Her Talk Is Louder 

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

 BODY:
Hillary from Westchester was on the line, and she was upset.
 "Literally, I have been accused of everything from murder on down," the first-time caller complained. "And it's hurtful and personally distressing when it first happens. But when it continues . . ." 
 Hillary was Hillary Rodham Clinton, the junior United States senator from New York, who surprised Brian Lehrer by unexpectedly phoning his call-in show on WNYC radio in New York this month to respond to a sensational charge that a listener had made about her and her husband. 
There was a time when Mrs. Clinton did her best to fade into the woodwork and be seen as just another lawmaker on Capitol Hill. But these days, the woman who started her Senate candidacy with a "listening tour" cannot stop talking -- or so it seems to politicians and strategists in both parties.
Relentlessly and ubiquitously, Mrs. Clinton is out there, pounding away at Republicans, responding to her critics, staking out distinct positions on everything from Afghanistan and Iraq (she is a hawk) to terror money and unemployment insurance benefits (she wants more). By design or not, in the last few months she has been showing a feisty side that her critics long suspected was there but that her advisers say she has been reluctant to display.
"She's just much more comfortable," said Harold M. Ickes, a longtime friend and adviser who acknowledged that Mrs. Clinton was "gun-shy" at first, largely because of her turbulent days in the White House. "She's much more sure afoot," he said.
In the last several weeks, it has been all Mrs. Clinton almost all the time. She has made a string of high-profile appearances -- visiting troops in Afghanistan and Iraq, giving back-to-back interviews on the Sunday morning political programs and delivering speeches to prominent foreign policy experts in Manhattan.
Last month, she was the M.C. during a big Democratic dinner in Iowa attended by her party's presidential candidates. On Nov. 10, she addressed an influential business group in Manhattan about her plans for upstate New York.
More remarkable, though, has been the increasingly partisan shots she has been willing to take at Republicans, who once praised her for her low-key, deferential style.
Why exactly Mrs. Clinton has decided to turn up the volume is open to speculation, as is most everything in her life.
Mrs. Clinton did not respond to a request for an interview. But her Senate aides say there is nothing more to it than the fact that she has learned the Senate ropes after nearly three years in office, and that she has landed some of the chamber's high-profile assignments -- chiefly a seat on the Armed Services Committee -- and has a lot to say.
People in both parties agree that one reason Mrs. Clinton has become such a presence may be that she can. Not only is she a huge celebrity, whose memoir became a big-seller around the globe, but she is also the most popular elected Democrat in the nation, at least as measured by polls.
And, according to her advisers, she is not running for president this year, so is more free to speak out than the nine Democrats who are.
This, naturally, has only renewed speculation about her motives.
Some people say she is riding her celebrity status and popularity among Democrats to establish herself as a party leader, perhaps to run for president, perhaps because -- as she has complained to intimates -- she believes the Democratic Party is in trouble.
Others say she feels a personal obligation to speak out against Republicans, particularly President Bush and his allies, for squandering what she regards as the policy successes of Bill Clinton's presidency.
But Mrs. Clinton's closest advisers say the changes reflect a long and complicated evolution that she has undergone since leaving the White House, where she was bound by the strictures of being a president's wife.
"She's increasingly found her sea legs in the Senate and feels an obligation to speak out against the ruinous policies of Washington Republicans," said Howard Wolfson, one of Mrs. Clinton's advisers.
Whatever her motives, this much is clear: Mrs. Clinton has come a long way from her early days on the campaign trail in New York, when she and her advisers ran a bland, low-key campaign consisting of lots of handshaking at county fairs and other upstate sites and had an almost religious adversity to saying anything that could be construed as controversial.
The pattern continued when she first took office. Mrs. Clinton routinely declined offers to make high-profile appearances that might underscore her celebrity and upstage more senior members of the Senate. And she avoided picking partisan fights in public.
Some Republicans on the Hill acknowledged that they were shocked that the woman whom they had seen as a pathologically ambitious liberal with a radical agenda managed to work cooperatively with them.
People close to her say no single event triggered the changes in her public persona. Rather, they say, it has been a gradual process -- beginning with the 2002 midterm elections, when she aggressively campaigned for Congressional Democrats, and continuing through last summer, when she promoted her recently published memoir in a book tour that drew crowds.
Within Mrs. Clinton's tight inner circle of friends and advisers, there is a difference of opinion over how far she should go with all this. One camp has been arguing behind the scenes that President Bush is a much more vulnerable figure than some polls suggest, and that 2004 provides an opportunity for her to make a triumphant return to the White House, this time in the Oval Office. But another camp wants her to move carefully, concerned that anything she does could feed into the persistent criticism that she became a senator only to have a base from which to start a presidential bid.
Whatever the impact, she is everywhere, including the most unexpected places. She even sat for an interview with George Stephanopoulos, the host of ABC's "This Week With George Stephanopoulos."
In an interview, Mr. Stephanopoulos, a former adviser to Bill Clinton, said he had been requesting an interview with Mrs. Clinton for months. But Mrs. Clinton never took him up on the offer -- possibly because she was said to have been enraged with him for writing an insider's account of his years in the White House.
Her interview with Mr. Stephanopoulos allowed her to achieve a trifecta: appearances on three network Sunday morning political programs to share her observations on Afghanistan and Baghdad and to criticize the Bush administration for some of its policies.
Meanwhile, this new side of Mrs. Clinton is emerging at the same time that the Democratic candidates for president are struggling to break through to the public. Her most audacious, if not provocative, move may have been her decision to be the M.C. at the Jefferson-Jackson Dinner/Iowa, a fund-raising event.
Mrs. Clinton's advisers defended her decision, saying she was invited to Iowa to raise money and interest for the event. But even some of her most ardent supporters acknowledged concerns about the reaction her appearance might stir among other Democrats. It is a matter of conjecture, even among people close to Mr. and Mrs. Clinton, whether they are enjoying -- and deliberately inviting -- speculation about her prospects as a presidential candidate.
Closer to home, Mrs. Clinton has actually been a little more cautious about the fights she picks and the toes she steps on. Her advisers note, for example, that she has gone out of her way to avoid clashing with New York Republicans, some of whom she has good working relationships with, even as she chastises the party's leadership in Washington.
But a few weeks ago, Mrs. Clinton surprised the political establishment in the state when she took a swing at Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, accusing him of failing to give local governments their share of the antiterrorism money Washington sent to New York. The issue exposed a rift that had been opening behind the scenes between the governor and the senator, fueling speculation that both are gearing up for a face-off when Mrs. Clinton runs for re-election in 2006.
Even people closely following her career have been surprised by her vigorous efforts to raise her profile.
Mr. Lehrer, who hosts the radio show Mrs. Clinton contacted, said her telephone call came out of the blue. "I was pretty shocked," he said. "I didn't see it coming at all."
As it turns out, Mrs. Clinton was at home in Chappaqua, N.Y., listening to the program when a caller telephoned to complain that the Clinton administration had established a policy barring military personnel from entering the White House while wearing their uniforms.
Mrs. Clinton picked up the phone and got through to the show to set the record straight: it never happened.
"Wait a minute!" Mr. Lehrer said, interrupting a guest he had been chatting with. "I'm getting a flash from the screening room. Guess what? After a half-hour of talking about Hillary Clinton, she's calling in."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article and a picture caption yesterday about Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's recent increase in visibility gave a misspelled surname in some copies for one television interviewer. He is George Stephanopoulos, not Stephanopolous.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton made the Sunday morning TV rounds this month. On "This Week With George Stephanopoulos," she was interviewed by Mr. Stephanopoulos, right, and George F. Will. (Photo by ABC News)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); MURDER (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%); ARMED FORCES (62%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%) HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (87%); IRAQ (87%) UNITED STATES#090T031225SL04A01# 

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2003 #090T031224SL04A01# 



582 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Food Agency Cuts Zimbabwe Rations and Warns of Shortages 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Dec. 23 

 BODY:
A shortfall of international aid has forced the World Food Program to halve the food ration for 2.6 million malnourished people in Zimbabwe, and aid officials say supplies for that country of some staples like cooking oil will completely run out early next month.
 Spokesmen for the organization said the shortages could soon extend to five other southern African countries, where a combination of drought and insufficient donations threatens to worsen hunger problems when the harvest season begins early next year. 
 In a news release on Monday, the food program said it had cut its basic ration of cornmeal in Zimbabwe from nearly 12 ounces a day to about 6, largely because emergency food stocks in Zimbabwe were running low and donations from outside were insufficient to replenish them. 
The remaining monthly rations -- about a quart of cooking oil and two pounds of beans or peas -- were continuing, an official said. But even those stocks are expected to run out altogether early next month. 
"Unfortunately January, February and March are the key hungry months before the harvest," Richard Lee, the program's Johannesburg information officer, said in a telephone interview. "Zimbabwe's situation is by far the worst." 
Michael Huggins, the agency's regional information director for southern Africa, said in an interview that the agency needed an increase in cash donations to be able to respond quickly to the imminent shortage in Zimbabwe. 
The United Nations-based program is trying to feed 6.5 million hungry people in Zimbabwe, Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia, Lesotho and Swaziland. Four million recipients live in Zimbabwe, where large-scale agriculture has all but collapsed since President Robert Mugabe began seizing commercial farms from their white owners in 2000 in a plan to redress misdeeds committed under colonial rule. 
Because of earlier shortages, the World Food Program says, it had been able to feed only 2.6 million of those needy people in Zimbabwe. Their rations will now be cut to the newly announced level. 
A coalition of three nonprofit relief organizations is trying to feed an additional million needy in the six-country area. 
Besides low rainfall, agricultural production in all six countries has been crippled by the growing AIDS crisis, which has claimed a significant share of farm workers. Mr. Mugabe largely blames droughts, not his economic policies, for his nation's collapse.
But most outside experts disagree, and global relief organizations say the problem lies in Zimbabwe's emerging status as a pariah state. They have openly worried that overall donations to southern Africa relief would fall off because of potential donors' reluctance to be seen as supporting Mr. Mugabe's government. 
Since it began seeking donations in July for the current crisis, the World Food Program said, donors had contributed about $161 million of the $311 million needed to continue food aid at current levels through next June. 
The United States has given about half that sum, with the European Union and Britain, Sweden and Australia contributing another $56 million. The remaining $20 million has come from about 30 governments. Some substantial donors to previous southern African emergencies have given little or nothing this year, officials said, perhaps because some have diverted resources to the crisis in Iraq. 
The problems here are no less real, however. In Zimbabwe, where inflation has jumped from 525 percent to 620 percent in two months, both United Nations and private experts say the country's 12 million to 13 million citizens have only a five-month supply of food. 
The United Nations says that food prices in some areas have doubled in recent weeks and that up to 5.5 million people there could require food aid next year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); FOOD CHARITIES (91%); MALNUTRITION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); DROUGHT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FARM LABOR (76%); AGRICULTURE (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (84%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (97%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (94%); SWAZILAND (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); LESOTHO (79%); MALAWI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003 



583 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Administration Is Exempting Alaska Forest From Protection 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 23 

 BODY:
The Bush administration announced on Tuesday that the Tongass National Forest in Alaska, the largest in the country, would be exempted from a Clinton-era rule, potentially opening up more than half of the 17 million-acre forest for more development and as many as 50 logging projects.
 The decision stems from the settlement of a lawsuit between Alaska and the federal government over the so-called roadless rule, which prohibited the building of roads in 58.5 million acres of undeveloped national forest across the country. 
 Environmental groups attacked the administration for the settlement in July, saying it was an underhanded strategy for circumventing the regulation. Conservation groups said the administration had failed to defend the roadless designation adequately. 
But Ray Massey, a spokesman for the Forest Service in Alaska, said that agency officials felt there were already enough protections for the Tongass. "We didn't really need roadless to protect the Tongass," he said in a telephone interview. "We already have a forest plan in place to protect the Tongass." 
Before putting the roadless designation into effect, the Forest Service had drawn up plans for the immediate development of 300,000 acres in the Tongass. Environmental groups say that about 9.6 million acres of the Tongass could be affected by the dropping of the ban. 
The roadless rule was put in place after a two-year process that included 600 scientific studies and two rounds of public comments that generated almost two million responses, most of them in favor of the rule.
Since its inception, the rule has been challenged through a host of legal, legislative and administrative efforts. The conflicts have highlighted the tensions between environmental protection and economic development, and between state autonomy and federal oversight.
Environmental groups supported the roadless rule as a way to curb the development and logging that had already affected half of national forest land. But Western states and the timber industry said the rule was unjustified in its sweeping scope -- touching about 30 percent of national forest acreage in the country.
Industry groups and states have made a concerted effort to attack the rule through lawsuits around the country. In July, a federal district court judge in Wyoming suspended the rule nationwide. Environmental groups are appealing the case to the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit, in Denver.
Before that, a federal court in Idaho originally threw out the roadless rule, but that decision was overturned last December by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco.
The Tongass National Forest, with 16.8 million acres, has been particularly contentious because of its environmental symbolism as the only temperate rain forest on the continent. 
"This is the rarest forest type on earth and it needs to be protected," said Jeremy Paster, a forest campaign organizer for Greenpeace. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); APPEALS COURTS (84%); APPEALS (84%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); LITIGATION (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); RAIN FORESTS (73%); JUDGES (71%); INTERVIEWS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (94%); WYOMING, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003 



584 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: An Enormous Landmark Joins Graveyard of Malls 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, Dec. 19 

 BODY:
No holiday bells ring through the Mall of Memphis this season. No holly, ribbons or blinking white lights bedeck the halls, where just 13 of 160 stores remain open. This giant, two-level, windowless monolith, with 90 acres of roof and yellow-striped parking lots, billed as the biggest mall in the mid-South, is going out of business at 6 p.m. on Christmas Eve.
 The enclosed mall, built to mimic a rural Main Street, with lampposts and trees in big pots, looks today like Main Street in a ghost town. "It's just dead here," said Lisa Miller, one of only two diners in the food court at noon. "It's a dead mall now." 
 Henry Turley, a downtown Memphis developer, said, "What you've got is the value of the ground." 
The Mall of Memphis joins several hundred dead or dying indoor malls in or near Chicago; Dallas; Los Angeles; San Francisco; New Haven; Milwaukee; Augusta, Ga.; Fort Wayne, Ind.; Jennings, Mo.; and Fishkill, N.Y. Some have been bulldozed away. Some have been converted to homes or schools. 
But few deaths have matched the magnitude of this mall's demise, or the magnitude of the insult of the immense black-and-brown bruise it leaves on the southeastern flank of the city, visible from the Interstate 240 Loop and the busiest intersections outside downtown.
"The whole idea of bigger being better, I just don't think that's the case anymore," said A. C. Wharton Jr., the mayor here in Shelby County. 
In and around Memphis, some other enclosed malls still thrive, Mayor Wharton said, and he himself shops at the upscale, smaller Oak Court mall on the east side of town.
"But the idea of 'put a roof over it and put gadgets in it, and the people will come,' I think that day is gone," he said. "The premise that convenience means so much that people are willing to put up with so much, like parking lots where they get lost, that's worn off." 
The Mall ofMemphis took 10 years to build, and lived for 22. It has succumbed to ferocious competition from spiffier malls and big discount stores like Wal-Mart and Target, and to a population shift, racial tensions and fear of crime. Little of the pride that Memphis accords other institutions, like Beale Street and Graceland, is bestowed on an institution that is bigger than both.
"Charge a buck to hit it with a sledgehammer and donate the money to fix all the potholes," a reader of The Commercial Appeal, the Memphis daily, wrote in reply to a columnist's request for suggestions. Others proposed an office park, a community college, a football stadium and a "new fire department training facility and just burn the nasty thing down." None proposed another mall.
Along the corridors, a small carousel of young girls' lacy party dresses, priced up to $80, stood in front of a children's clothing store. "Everything's half off now," said Hamad Awad, the salesman. But in the thick of the Christmas season, there was not a shopper near. "It's like losing money every day," Mr. Awad said. 
The five-screen movie theater, the Nail Studio, Victoria's Secret, ProImage, Lenscrafters, Vibe, Divas, City G.E.A.R, Regency Jewelers, Gold Valley and Candlelight Weddings, where you could just walk in and be married, have all gone.
The signs above the mall's two big anchor stores, J. C. Penney and Dillard's, have been pried off. Just the shadows remain. 
Since the first enclosed mall was built, in 1957 near Minneapolis, an estimated 300 to 400 have been destroyed, locked up or converted to some other use, said William Beyard, a senior fellow for retailing and entertainment at the Urban Land Institute, a nonprofit research organization in Washington that studies the uses of real estate. Of the nation's 1,500 to 2,000 currently operating, he said, some 300 "fortress" malls, each with more than a million square feet and three or more anchor stores, "are sucking up energy from smaller malls." 
"The trends are very clear," he said. "The rich are getting richer, and the poor are getting poorer." 
In the battlefield vocabulary of retail development, malls are losing ground not only to big discounters like Wal-Mart and Target but also to the Internet, outlet centers and new strip malls, and to "power centers," where big-box "category killers," like Staples and Home Depot, combine at one site.
"This does not mean that malls as a generic type are failing," said Anthony Downs, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a director of General Growth Properties, a leading owner and manager of malls. "Our business is booming."
Still, Mr. Downs said, competition and population shifts, often from white to black in urban areas, can undermine malls that are left behind. "When the population becomes largely minority," Mr. Downs said, "it discourages the white population from coming in. It shouldn't, but it does." 
From 1980, just before the Mall of Memphis opened, to 2000, the black population's share of the city's total population grew to 64 percent from 48 percent. Affluent white neighborhoods followed Poplar Avenue from the center farther and father east into the suburbs. Their residents use fashionable shopping centers: Oak Court mall and, farther out, Wolfchase Galleria.
The Mall of Memphis is well off that path. As its neighborhood became more and more black and working class, its customer mix in this city with a history of racial tensions changed. Crime, and the perception of crime, grew among blacks and whites alike. The mall's shops became "faddish," Mayor Wharton said, hustling "baggy pants one month, something else the next."
Mr. Filbert, the mall's manager, said it was big tenants' "business decisions" that killed it: in 2001, Dillard's and J. C. Penney left. "I think it was plain and simple," he said. "The majors left us," though "the downturn in the economy hurt us, too."
"Crime," he said, "had nothing to do with it."
A cause or not, "crime" is the word that trips off tongues in the mall. In 1992, a 71-year-old woman, a shop manager, was shot to death in the parking lot during a robbery attempt. And Mike Blaekman, owner of the Hockey Stop, one of the shops still open, said: "My vehicle was stolen from this mall in 1998. An armored-car delivery service was robbed inside the mall." 
Elson Turner, idling the afternoon away with no hair to cut in his barbershop, said, "A couple of years ago, a guy killed his girlfriend next to where the drugstore used to be and killed himself in the hall right out here." 
To fight crime, the Memphis police put a substation on the ground floor. Crime spotters with binoculars roamed the roof. Elevated guard shacks were installed in the parking lots, though they were removed long ago. "That was a negative," Mr. Filbert said of the shacks, because they reinforced shoppers' fears. 
In any case, the perceptions endured. The mall's failure, said Mr. Turley, the developer who has helped revive downtown Memphis with new stores and housing, "has to do with income, it has to do with race, and it has to do with the disposability of the cities we're building."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Mall of Memphis, all but desolate as it prepares to close, fell victim to some familiar trends. (Photographs by Troy Glasgow for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (75%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%); CHRISTMAS (73%); POPULATION DECLINE (67%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); WRITERS (60%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (79%); AUGUSTA, GA, USA (55%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (54%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003 



585 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Mean Streets of New York? Increasingly, They're Found in Rochester 

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: ROCHESTER, Dec. 22 

 BODY:
Sister Grace Miller works in a Rochester that few outsiders have heard of. Not the western New York city that conjures images of affluence dating to its heyday a generation or two ago, but a section of it called the crescent. 
 The crescent is home to 27 percent of the city's residents and 80 percent of the city's homicides. An unidentified man found shot in the street there early Monday morning became Rochester's 55th homicide victim of the year, pushing the city's rate -- which already is the worst in the state -- higher. 
 "The people we know are the people who are killed," said Sister Miller, who runs a shelter and emergency food distribution center, the House of Mercy, less than three miles from the site of the shooting. "It's very devastating, and they're part of our community. We really don't have time to grieve because you start grieving for one and another one occurs."
People from Rochester would much rather believe that the city is associated with the Eastman Kodak Company or a new fast ferry to Toronto that will begin travel across Lake Ontario next May. But increasingly, officials are finding it hard to stop the wave of killings and escape the city's budding reputation for violence.
This year, that reputation dominated local elections, which were particularly nasty. Mike Green, the first assistant district attorney who ran to succeed the longtime county prosecutor, won despite an onslaught of negative campaign ads that claimed (erroneously, according to criminal justice experts) that the county lagged in prosecution rates. Mayor William A. Johnson Jr., a Democrat, was trounced in his campaign for Monroe County executive after several members of the Republican Party hammered him on crime issues. Rochester's homicide rate and "execution-style hits" were also cited in a recent column in The Globe and Mail of Toronto, which said Canadians might not want to travel here when the fast ferry sets up service. 
"I don't think Rochester is living up to its reputation as a problem-solving place," said John M. Klofas, a criminal justice professor at the Rochester Institute of Technology who studied the area's crime patterns for 15 years. "There seems to be an inability by the community to come together to address the problem."
Rochester has had an unexpectedly high homicide rate for much of the time he has been studying it, Professor Klofas said. And the rate has been getting worse for the last three years. 
In 2002, the homicide rate here was 18.9 per 100,000 people. The city had 42 homicides. After Monday's killing, with a week still to go in 2003, the city has a rate of 25.33.
Last year, New York City's rate was 7.3 per 100,000 people. The nation's rate was even lower, at 5.6. 
The reasons behind the burst of violence, according to Professor Klofas, include the lagging upstate economy, a steady migration of residents to the suburbs and a growing number of abandoned houses prone to become centers of drug sales and use. Rochester also has a school system that performs poorly. Only a quarter of high school freshmen last four years and graduate. Some 93 percent of school-age children live in poverty, Professor Klofas said.
People inside the crescent experience those problems in greater concentration. "It's an area of great poverty and high consumption rate of drugs which fuels an incredibly high number of homicides," said the Rochester police chief, Robert J. Duffy. "It's like a cancerous tumor, and it's growing."
Other statistics are equally bleak. Rochester's victims are often young black men. If they live in the crescent, their risk of dying from a homicide is 65 times as great as the national average. And their deaths push up the overall rate, helping to make Rochester's the worst in the state.
"These are horrible numbers," Mayor Johnson said. "I've heard people talk about the city like it's a cesspool, a hellhole, a place to be avoided."
The people of Rochester have to work together, he said, and "change the whole mind-set if we have any hopes of reducing it."
To combat the problem, the Rochester Police Department has been using some of New York City's techniques, including holding individual precincts accountable for high crime rates. It has consulted national and local crime experts and worked out agreements so state troopers and county sheriff's deputies help patrol troubled areas. Senator Charles E. Schumer has noticed Rochester's problem, too, and is trying to win federal money to help fight drug trafficking, and increase the Police Department's overtime budget. 
Rochester already has a larger police force than ever before -- 705 sworn officers -- and Chief Duffy is not convinced that more money or people will end the resignation to violence he believes is at the core of the problem. 
The staff at the House of Mercy would agree. "Homicide is an accepted part of life on the street," said the Rev. Neil R. Miller, a retired Catholic priest who runs the shelter with his twin sister, Grace, the nun. "It's not that they want it. They're not happy when it happens, but it's part of everyday existence."
Father Miller, 68, believes the people he sees are angrier these days. He has had to break up arguments at the shelter. But more often, he conducts wakes and services amid the tattered furniture when a victim's family cannot afford anything better. Sister Miller has created a de facto memorial by tacking hundreds of funeral programs to her office wall. 
The shelter's staff members note that many honest, hard-working families live in the crescent, too. But the ones who turn to violence find it hard to turn back. "People don't know how to settle arguments," Sister Miller said. "If someone is offended or hurt, the way to solve it is with a gun or a knife."
Seldom is there a public outcry, which makes the problem worse, according to some. "I think people read about it and gloss over it as another dead guy," said Tisha Smith, who spent five months last year attending the wakes and funerals of homicide victims as part of her graduate work to learn more about their connection to the community. "It dehumanizes crime. We're dealing with human lives and not a statistical thing."
On Dec. 12, the homicide of a popular disc jockey, Roger H. McCall -- killed by would-be robbers as he walked toward his son's house after collecting rent money on several properties that he owned -- generated several days of news coverage, a rarity. The man who died just before him, Jerry L. Foster, a convenience store owner who was shot during a robbery attempt on Dec. 7, received barely a mention. 
The silence -- from the public even more than from the news media -- is as disturbing as the numbers, Sister Miller said. "Many just want to pretend it doesn't exist," she said. "They really have given up hope."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sister Grace Miller, right, of the House of Mercy in Rochester, explained options for drug rehabilitation to Ava Gardner, who was evicted. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTIES (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (69%); FERRIES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); LAKE ONTARIO (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003 



586 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2003
 National Edition 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: The Elephant and the Chili Pepper 

 BODY:
Farmers in the Zambezi Valley of Zimbabwe have hit on a novel way to keep elephants from trampling their fields. They surround their crops with rows of chili peppers, whose smell is noxious to elephants. The peppers prevent battles that have harmed both man and animal, save crops and give farmers a lucrative new product to export. 
 The elephant pepper is one of 47 ideas for social change in poor countries that the World Bank recently financed through its Development Marketplace. The bank's grants for these ideas -- the farmers got $108,000 -- fall a few zeroes short of what the bank usually spends on its projects. But this venture-capital approach is a useful way of looking at social change. It is also a good investment, spurring innovations for very little money. 
 Some of the marketplace's winners are projects with global promise. Researchers in Tanzania are training rats to detect tuberculosis. Turkish engineers are helping people who live in substandard housing in earthquake zones to fortify their walls using discarded tires. South Africa's Playpump project provides free clean drinking water by installing wells -- each powered by a merry-go-round -- in playgrounds or at primary schools. As children make the merry-go-round spin, water is pumped into a tank decorated with messages about AIDS prevention, as well as with commercial ads that are sold to maintain the well. South Africa has already installed 500 Playpumps, which are more efficient, easier to use and cheaper to run than wells with hand pumps.
One of the Development Marketplace's most cost-effective ideas is helping people in India improve their reading by putting subtitles in their own language on popular music videos shown on TV. Viewers can read along with songs they already know, and initial studies show that the program does help reading comprehension. Such subtitles could be used worldwide to increase literacy, and cost almost nothing.
The marketplace, which made its first awards in 1998, gives grants for trials of completely new ideas and for replications of promising but small projects on a wider scale. There is a worldwide competition, and national competitions offering about $10,000 per grant are held in eight or so countries a year.
One inspiration for the Development Marketplace was Silicon Valley's venture capitalism. Another was the rise of social entrepreneurs -- people all over the world who have new ideas and use them to create widespread social change. The ability of ordinary citizens to transform their societies has soared with the spread of democracy in the last 15 years, and so has the recognition among project sponsors that spotting these innovators early and financing their work is a cost-effective way to improve lives. Many foundations, like Ashoka, search for social entrepreneurs, but the World Bank's role is unique. It has a huge global network of development experts on the lookout for innovative people and projects, and it can help these pioneers by giving them legitimacy and contacts. The Development Marketplace has also encouraged the bank to look at fighting poverty in a new way, giving a very top-down organization a view from the grass roots. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (88%); RODENTS (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (68%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (68%); TUBERCULOSIS (67%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (66%); MUSIC (63%); TUBERCULOSIS TESTING (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003 



587 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Parmalat Invented Assets, Italian Investigators Say
Parmalat engaged in a tangled scheme involving dozens of offshore front companies to invent assets to offset perhaps as much as $11 billion in liabilities over more than a decade, Italian investigators said.
 The case prompted the Italian cabinet to approve a decree to make it easier for Parmalat to reorganize while being protected from its creditors. Page A1. 

Personal Income Gained Last Month
Personal income rose 0.5 percent in November and consumer spending jumped 0.4 percent, the Commerce Department said. The government left its estimate of economic growth in the third quarter unchanged. The economy grew at an 8.2 percent annual rate in the quarter, the fastest since the final three months of 1983. While growth is forecast to slow to about half that pace this quarter, it will keep the economy on track to expand 3.1 percent this year, the most in three years. C6.

A Case of Mad Cow Disease in U.S.
A sick cow slaughtered about two weeks ago near Yakima, Wash., has tested positive for mad cow disease in early lab results, the first such case in the United States. A1.

Oil Giants Look Anew at Libya
Libya's pledge to give up its weapons of mass destruction and the possibility that the United States may end its economic sanctions against Libya could be a boon for several American oil companies that once had operations there. World Business, Section W.

LG Card Auction Fails to Draw Bids
An attempt to sell South Korea's LG Card Company failed to attract a single bidder. World Business, Section W.

The Death of the Mall in Memphis
The Mall of Memphis, the biggest enclosed mall in the mid-South, will close tonight. A12.

Russian Oil Concerns Face Taxes
Russian oil companies are bracing themselves to pay more in taxes after Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, insisted that they should underwrite more public spending. Russian oil companies may pay new taxes on profits, either through export duties or through a tax on extraction of mineral resources, Mr. Putin said. World Business, Section W.

Broker Accused of Illegal Trading
The Securities and Exchange Commission accused a Las Vegas broker of making about $175 million from illegal late trading. C4.

Stocks Increase on Light Trading
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 3.26 points, to 10,341.26. The Nasdaq composite index rose 18.98 points, to 1,974.78, and the S.&P. 500 was up 3.08 points, to 1,096.02. C6.

Indians Turn to Real Estate
Indian lands in Arizona are being leased for shopping centers, industrial parks and office buildings. Commercial Real Estate. C4.

Financial Markets to Close Early
United States financial markets will close early today for Christmas Eve. The stock market will close at 1 p.m. and the bond market will close at 2 p.m. The United States markets and most of those overseas will be closed tomorrow in observance of Christmas.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,341.26 up 3.26Nasdaq composite -- 1,974.78 up 18.9810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.26% up 0.09The euro -- $1.2396 down 0.0016The dollar -- 107.40 yen down 0.11 Graph tracks personal income from June through November.Nov.: +0.5% Graph: "TODAY" shows durable goods orders.November figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +1.0% Graph: "TODAY" shows new-home sales.November figures due at 10 a.m. EasternExpected: +1.8%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (84%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (83%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); BONDS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); APPROVALS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); RETAILERS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); AUCTIONS (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); RETAIL PROPERTY (68%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (67%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (64%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (64%); BOND MARKETS (64%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); EXPORT TRADE (61%); OFFICE PROPERTY (60%); CHRISTMAS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: PARMALAT SPA (90%); LG CORP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: PLT (BIT) (90%); 003550 (KSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (90%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (90%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (90%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (82%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (82%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YAKIMA, WA, USA (70%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003 



588 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 35 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES 

 BODY:
 DOLLAR EDGES UP. A smaller-than-forecast rise in consumer spending gave traders little reason to push the dollar higher against the euro. In New York, the euro settled at $1.2396, down from $1.2412 on Monday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar prices (near-month contract), since July 2002. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterdayand their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); EURO (86%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003 



589 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS; 
Consumer Spending Increases; Income Also Rises in November

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Americans earned and spent more in November than a month earlier, the Commerce Department said yesterday, suggesting that shoppers were still the big source of growth in the year's final three months. The government left its estimate of economic growth in the third quarter unchanged.
 Consumer spending rose 0.4 percent in November and personal incomes rose 0.5 percent, the biggest increase since June 2002, the Commerce Department said. 
 In a separate report, the University of Michigan said its consumer sentiment index was 92.6 this month, 3 percentage points higher than the preliminary estimate two weeks ago. It was 93.7 in November.
 The economy grew at an 8.2 percent annual rate last quarter, the fastest since the final three months of 1983, the Commerce Department confirmed. While growth is forecast to slow to about half that pace this quarter, it will keep the economy on track to expand 3.1 percent this year, the most in three years.
 "It's only natural that we would see some moderation in spending on top of a frenzied pace in the third quarter," said Jade Zelnik, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Conn. 
 "If job growth continues to strengthen, then personal income will benefit and it will help consumer spending going forward."
 The growth in spending was less than the median forecast of 0.7 percent, partly because a price gauge fell for the first time in seven months. The personal consumption expenditures price index, a measure of inflation watched by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, dropped 0.1 percent and is up 1.3 percent over the last 12 months, compared with 1.6 percent in the year ended in October.
 Economists said the decline in the personal consumption expenditures price index supported the Fed's view that it could hold down its benchmark interest rate, now at a 45-year low of 1 percent, for a "considerable period" to stimulate the economy and avoid a broad decline in prices. 
 Retail sales are reported in dollars, so a decline in prices would restrain growth even if unit sales increased. 
 "The disinflationary story continues and suggests that the Fed has a long way to go before they can consider raising rates," said Drew Matus, senior economist at Lehman Brothers.
 In October, spending gained 0.1 percent and incomes 0.2 percent, the Commerce Department said. 
 Excluding the decline in the price index, consumer spending would have been closer to the forecast, said Christopher Low, an economist at FTN Financial.
 The University of Michigan sentiment index slipped from November, which had the highest reading in more than a year and a half. Economists had forecast a decline to 90.6.
 "Consumer confidence has been in a fairly narrow range since June and is now toward the high end of that range," said Robert Mellman, an economist at J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Adjusted for inflation, gross domestic product totaled $10.493 trillion at an annual rate, the Commerce Department said in its final report for the third quarter. Unadjusted for the change in prices, it totaled $11.107 trillion and rose at a 10 percent annual rate. The price deflator used to adjust the figures rose at a 1.6 percent annual rate in the quarter.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Real Economic Growth"Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation. Graph tracks gross domestic product from 1999 through 2003. 3rd Qtr. FinalUnch.: +8.2% (Source by Commerce Department) Chart: "Personal Income"Total personal income in trillions of dollars, before taxes, at seasonally adjusted annual rates. Graph tracks personal income from June 2002 through October 2003. Personal Income and SpendingIncomeNOV.: $9.33CHANGE FROM OCT.:+0.5% ConsumptionNOV.: 7.90CHANGE FROM OCT.: +0.4% (Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); INFLATION (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE) (51%); 8634 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003 



590 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Oil Giants Look Anew At Libya 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Dec. 22 

 BODY:
Libya's pledge to give up its weapons of mass destruction and the possibility that the United States may soon end its economic sanctions against Libya could be a boon for several American oil companies that once had extensive operations there, several energy executives said on Monday.
 ConocoPhillips and Marathon Oil, both based here; Amerada Hess of New York; and Occidental Petroleum of Los Angeles operated in Libya for years before the United States imposed sanctions on the country in 1986. They all have contemplated a return to Libya for some time. 
 "Listening to the news in the last few days was a mind-blowing experience," said Lawrence P. Meriage, a spokesman for Occidental. Libya was an important part of Occidental's past, as the site of its largest operations in the late 1960's and early 1970's after the company's founder, Armand Hammer, reached an accommodation with Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, to allow Occidental to expand its base there. Mr. Hammer died in 1990. 
 The possibility that the United States could lift its sanctions was raised after President Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain said on Friday that Colonel Qaddafi had admitted that his country tried to develop nuclear and other unconventional weapons, and he promised to dismantle them and submit to international inspections.
 Libya's foreign minister, Mohammed Abdelrahman Chalgam, stoked oil companies' hopes of a return to Libya when he told reporters in Algiers on Monday that Libya hoped to attract oil investment by American companies. Mr. Chalgam said that American companies could help Libya eventually double its oil output. 
 "We currently produce 1.5 million barrels per day and we aim to increase the oil output to 3 million barrels per day in 2020," said Mr. Chalgam, who was in Algiers for a meeting of North African nations. 
 Libya's oil production peaked about 30 years ago, at more than three million barrels a day, when investments by Occidental helped invigorate the nation's energy infrastructure and lift its importance within the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. Since then, however, friction between Colonel Qaddafi and the United States has limited the growth of its oil industry and the role of American oil companies in Libya. 
 Companies from Europe, including Total of France, ENI of Italy and OMV of Austria, have accounted for most of the international exploration ventures in Libya. This month, the National Oil Company of Libya reached a $100 million agreement with a group formed by Woodside Petroleum of Australia, Repsol of Spain and Hellenic Petroleum of Greece to develop several oil fields. The deal was Libya's first since United Nations sanctions were lifted last September. Brazil's state-controlled oil company, Petrobras, said this month that it was in negotiations with Libya for an exploration venture.
It is too early to say whether American companies might return to their prominent role in Libya's oil industry. The assets held by the Oasis Group, formed by ConocoPhillips, Amerada Hess and Marathon, have remained frozen since 1986, though Libya's national oil company has continued to operate in the concession area where they had worked. 
 Representatives of the three companies have been given permission by the United States government in recent months to negotiate with Libyan authorities and to try to renew their oil leases, which are set to expire in 2005. Jay Wilson, a spokesman for Amerada, said on Monday that the company had "very limited contact" in discussions over the leases with Libya's government.
 Libya remains an alluring point of ambition for American oil companies. It has proven oil reserves of about 29.75 billion barrels and its location in North Africa makes its transportation expenses to Europe less costly than from other places. 
 And while Libya is not expected to rapidly increase its oil production, it might eventually become one of a number of countries, including Iraq and Russia, that could help reduce the dependence of the United States and Europe on oil from the world's largest producer, Saudi Arabia. 
 Libya, for its part, has signaled that it is eager to strike new deals with international oil companies. The economy remains heavily dependent on the oil industry, with oil shipments accounting for nearly all its export revenue and about a quarter of its total economic output. 
 Some authorities on Libya's energy industry cautioned against becoming too optimistic about prospects in the country, which remains a socialist-driven economy and a member of OPEC. 
 "The idea that American technology and capital are indispensable is the height of hubris," said G. Henry M. Schuler, a former American diplomat and oil company executive in Libya, who also pointed out that new or renewed deals will have to be reached with a government that is still controlled by Colonel Qaddafi.
 "I guarantee you, Qaddafi will be chortling about the way all of this turns out," Mr. Schuler said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); INSPECTIONS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); HESS CORP (58%); MARATHON OIL CORP (58%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (57%); HELLENIC PETROLEUM SA (51%); NATIONAL OIL CO OF ZIMBABWE (51%); PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA (PETROBRAS) (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); HES (NYSE) (58%); MRO (NYSE) (58%); OXY (NYSE) (57%); HLPD (LSE) (51%); ELPE (ATH) (51%); PETR3 (BOVESPA) (50%); PBR (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (57%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (57%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); SIC5541 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS (51%); SIC5171 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (51%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (78%); GREECE (75%); AUSTRIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003 



591 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
Arizona Indians Turn to Real Estate Development

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Dec. 18 

 BODY:
Rechanda Howard, a soft-spoken member of the Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community, remembers how her grandfather, Joseph Ray, used to talk about the 90 acres of remote arid land that the federal government allotted to his family in 1913. "He said the land would never be worth anything," said Mrs. Howard, now a grandmother herself.
 Set against a backdrop of red clay mountains, the creosote-and-mesquite-covered land that Mrs. Howard and two dozen relatives inherited is a picturesque reminder of this region's desert past. But acreage that seemed isolated when the reservation was established in 1879 now bumps against the edge of this manicured city of 203,000. And it lies just to the west of the recently completed Pima Freeway, the major north-south artery in the sprawling Phoenix metropolitan area, with its population of 3.3 million. 
 Long before the freeway, developers had their eye on Indian lands. The biggest projects so far have been a shopping center with big-box retailers and a Wal-Mart. Early next year, however, Mainspring Capital Group, a local developer affiliated with Ross Brown Partners, a real estate services company, plans to begin clearing and grading the site for the first phase of Pima Center, a $600 million commercial development on 209 acres owned by Joseph Ray's descendants and 34 other Salt River Pima-Maricopa families. Once completed, the project will be one of the largest private business parks on Indian land. 
 Pima Center, which is slated to be a mix of high-end office buildings, retail stores and warehouse and distribution space, is one of several developments that are expected to sprout along the freeway on land leased from the tribe. 
 Just to the east of the freeway, the Alter Group, based in the Chicago suburb of Skokie, is also poised to begin building a $400 million retail and office park, with two million square feet of space, on 186 acres of land owned by seven other Indian families. And just south of the Pima Center a major national office developer, the Opus Corporation, is planning a 30-acre office park.
 Getting to this point can be a painstaking process for developers and the Indian community. Ralph R. Horlacher, a principal in Spire Properties, who assembled the parcels on which the Alter Group plans to build, said negotiations began in 1996, shortly before the Pima Center talks.
 Some of the delay was caused by the sheer number of parties involved. Of the reservation's 55,329 acres, 24,404 were allotted to individuals to encourage them to become farmers, although much of it lay north of the Arizona Canal and was therefore unsuited to agriculture. The Indians are barred from selling the land, which is held in trust for them by the federal government. 
 Many landholders died without making wills, leaving multiple heirs. The Pima Center land, for example, is held by 180 individuals, a Mainspring principal, Gerald V. Blomquist, said. The Alter site has 170 landholders, Mr. Horlacher said. A formula linked to the number of owners for a given parcel dictates how many landholders have to agree to a lease.
 But there were other obstacles. The developers also found themselves doing business with people with an uncommonly long-range view and a passionate concern about the consequences for future generations. Unlike most Indian communities, the Salt River Pima-Maricopas have been self-governing since 1993.
 "Many tribes," said Jacob C. Moore, the community's special assistant on congressional and legislative affairs, "think seven generations ahead, in terms of the long-term impact your decisions will have."
 For three decades, the community of 7,400 (not all of whom live in the reservation) has been anticipating development along the freeway corridor, Mr. Moore said. With about a dozen tribal businesses ranging from sand-and-gravel production to hazardous waste recycling, the Salt River Indians are more entrepreneurial than many rural tribes that depend on gambling casinos for their nongovernment revenue. But they have sought a balance between the economic opportunities and the tribe's environmental, spiritual and cultural values even at the expense of long delays, Mr. Moore said.
 "The community is not in a rush," he said. "We missed the last cycle. We missed the one before that, and as far as the community is concerned, that's O.K."
 The tribe has imposed a height limitation of 40 feet so that mountain views will not be obstructed. They have banned palm trees, which are ubiquitous in Scottsdale but not native to the region, and stipulated that all pedestrian areas must be shaded. White materials and narrow glass windows, seen as out of keeping with the Indian aesthetic, are discouraged. "The community," said Hans Klose, director for community development, "prefers developers with innovative yet culturally aware visions." 
 Knowing that their land is steadily increasing in value has made it easy for the Indians to be patient, Mr. Moore said.
 Indeed, while the vacancy rate in the Phoenix area is 20 percent, Scottsdale's vacancy rate is only 13 percent, despite the addition of 3.3 million square feet of space since 1997, said R. Craig Coppola, a principal of Lee & Associates, a local brokerage company. 
 In Scottsdale, Mr. Coppola said, the asking annual rent for high-quality office space is $28 a square foot.
 To cross Pima Road from Scottsdale to the reservation is to travel between two very different worlds. One contains multimillion-dollar homes, lush lawns and cactus gardens, an airport for private planes, dozens of golf courses and luxurious spa resorts. The other is minimally landscaped and dotted with modest one-story houses and trailers. 
 In 1999, the median family income in Scottsdale was $73,846, and nearly half the working population was made up of managers and professionals. On the reservation, the median family income is $24,975, Mr. Klose said. Of the potential work force of 3,500 people, about 1,250 are employed, according to the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
 Two decades ago, Joseph Ray's daughters began getting offers for projects ranging from stadiums to auto malls, said Russell Ray, Mrs. Howard's first cousin. But the proposals went nowhere. "We did background checks, to see if these were people of their word," he said. "A number of them were not reputable."
 In 1989, the first phase of the Scottsdale Pavillions, a 1.1-million-square-foot big-box shopping center, opened on Salt River land, at Indian Bend Road, just west of the future freeway. Mr. Horlacher, who assembled those parcels for the Vestar Development Corporation and is now working with the Alter Group, said it took 10 years to get the shopping center built. So that the project -- now operated by Mr. Horlacher's company -- could attract national tenants, the law was changed to allow disputes to be settled in federal court, a significant step for future projects.
 The success of Scottsdale Pavillions showed the Ray family and their neighbors what could be accomplished. But many in the community were put off by the shopping center's generic design, prompting them to demand greater control in the future. Veronica L. Homer, superintendent of the Salt River field office of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, which must review leases on Indian land, said the shopping center caused a shift in the community. "They are now thinking high-end," she said.
 More in line with current aesthetics, tribal leaders say, is the 285,000-square-foot Chapparal Business Center, on Pima and Chaparral Roads. Completed in 2000, the earth-toned complex was built for the Salt River Devco, a tribe-owned business, by Kitchell Development Corporation of Phoenix.
 It was not until 1997 that the Ray family began actively courting development. After they began negotiating with the Pima Center developers, they had to get a zoning variance from the community to allow light industrial uses. "We had to assure them there would be no smokestacks," Mr. Ray said. 
 Mrs. Howard said the Indian community will receive a projected $5 million a year from the possessory taxes -- the tribal equivalent of property taxes -- that the buildings will generate. Her generation will profit from the lease but it will be her children and grandchildren who benefit the most and will need to rise to the responsibility that goes along with newfound affluence, she said.
 "We are telling them that they need to become business-minded," she said. "We are telling them, 'You need to go to school and go to work."'

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hans Klose, left, director of community development for the Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community, and Jacob Moore, the group's special assistant on congressional and legislative affairs. (Photo by Jeff Topping for The New York Times) Chart: "Data Update"Value of construction contracts for nonresidential buildings by region. Seasonally adjusted annual rate through November. Graph tracks construction contracts (regionally) for the South, West, Midwest and Northeast from 2000 through 2003. NATIONAL IN BILLIONSNOV. 2002: $154.8SEPT. 2003: 133.8OCT. 2003: 147.9NOV. 2003: 149.2 (Source by McGraw-Hill Construction/Dodge) Map of Scottsdale, Arizona, highlighting the planned shopping center, planned Pima Center, and the Scottsdale Pavillions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); SUBURBS (73%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); WILLS (70%); INTESTACY (70%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (69%); CITIES (69%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: OPUS CORP (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (84%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (84%); SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003 



592 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
More Evidence of Economic Growth Sends Shares Higher

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500 hit fresh 19-month highs yesterday as a three economic reports provided investors additional evidence of an improving economy. 
 Volume was extremely light on the last full trading day before the Christmas holiday. The stock market will be open for a half-day session today, will be closed tomorrow for Christmas and then reopen for a half-day session Friday. 
 "The bottom line is the market has been creeping higher pretty much every day," said Brian Pears, head equity trader at Victory Capital Management in Cleveland. "It's a continuation of the rally based on optimism for next year." 
 People want to be fully invested coming into year's end, he said, adding that "it's hard to believe we'll have a major move down for the rest of the year."
 The Dow closed up 3.26 points, or 0.03 percent, at 10,341.26, after a five-day gain of 315 points. The blue-chip average is now trading at its highest level since May 17, 2002, when the Dow closed at 10,353.08.
 The broader market also finished higher. The Nasdaq composite index gained 18.98, or 1 percent, to 1,974.78.
 And the S.&P. 500 rose 3.08 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,096.02. It was the highest level since May 23, 2002, when the index closed at 1,097.08.
 The Commerce Department confirmed that the gross domestic product grew at an 8.2 percent annual rate in the third quarter, the best showing since 1983. The reading was identical to a preliminary estimate made a month ago.
 In a separate report, the department said consumer spending rose 0.4 percent in November while incomes rose 0.5 percent, the best gain since May. The income reading was slightly above Wall Street's expectations, but consumer spending was slightly below.
 The University of Michigan said its consumer sentiment gauge moved to 92.6 in December, down slightly from November's figure of 93.7 but higher than analysts' forecasts.
 The stock market typically sees strong gains at the end of December as investors put year-end bonuses and dividends to work. This year might be different, however, because stocks have already posted a large increase since March.
 Terrorism concerns also weighed on the market, particularly after the federal government raised the terror alert level on Sunday and said Al Qaeda might attack during the holiday season, analysts said.
 "It's almost now being accepted as a given that the macroeconomy is on a very solid footing," said Bill Meade, managing director at RBC Capital Markets. "What you're looking at is a Christmas rally that wants to happen."
 But he said the elevated terror alert "leaves doubt and uncertainty as to whether the Christmas rally will transpire."
 Research in Motion jumped $23.51, or 51 percent, to $69.61 after the company, the maker of the BlackBerry wireless device, raised its fourth-quarter outlook; several brokerage firms also raised the company's stock rating.
 Identix, which makes fingerprint verification products, fell 44 cents, to $4.42 after lowering its fiscal second-quarter revenue outlook.
 Metrologic Instruments, the maker of bar code scanners, rose $1.32, to $26.86, after raising its fourth-quarter and full-year outlooks.
 American Greetings dropped $1.28, to $21.30, after lowering its 2004 earnings outlook, citing sluggish holiday sales. Target fell 13 cents, to $38.03, after saying that December sales were falling below estimates.
 Advancing issues outnumbered those declining 8 to 5 on the New York Stock Exchange. The Russell 2000 index, which tracks smaller-company stocks, rose 5.66, or 1 percent, to 555.03.

	 	 		--------------------	 	
Treasuries Prices Slump
By Reuters
 Treasury prices fell heavily yesterday as weakness inspired by mildly encouraging economic data compounded a two-year auction result that was at best in line with market expectations.
 Dealers described the Treasury's sale of $26 billion in two-year notes as being in line with or slightly weaker than expected, and the market responded with more selling.
 The notes went at a high yield of 1.95 percent, having traded around 1.85 percent before the sale was announced. The price fell 4/32, to 100.
 By late in the day, the benchmark 10-year note fell 23/32, to a price of 9929/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.26 percent from 4.17 percent on Monday. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of two-year notes and four-week bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
High Price: 99.854
High Yield: 1.950
Low Yield: 1.870
Median Yield: 1.909
Accepted at low price: 72%
Total applied for: 63,771,124
Accepted: 33,987,467
Noncompetitive: 711,362
Interest set at: 1 The two-year notes mature Dec. 31, 2005.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.935
High Rate: 0.870
Coupon Yield: 60%
Low Rate: 0.850
Median Rate: 0.860
Total applied for: $31,997,633
Accepted: $16,192,793
Noncompetitive: $39,436
The four-week bills mature Jan. 22, 2004.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 25, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A table in Business Day yesterday showing results of the government's auction of two-year notes misstated the interest rate set for them. It was 1 7/8 percent, not 1 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Graph tracks treasury securities yesterday and a month ago for both 3 to 6 months and 2 to 30 years maturity. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); TERRORISM (84%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (70%); CONSUMER SPENDING (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%); AL-QAEDA (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: VICTORY CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (57%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (50%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003 



593 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 44 words

HEADLINE: Corrections 

 BODY:
 An article in Business Day yesterday about the Bush administration's proposals to overhaul rules on vehicle fuel economy included a sport utility vehicle erroneously among those that fall outside of current regulations. The BMW X5 is subject to current rules. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003 



594 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Christians Alter Plans For Christmas 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Dec. 23 

 BODY:
Christmas has been moved.
 For Baghdad's small Christian community, the major Mass will not be celebrated at midnight but in the late afternoon on Christmas Eve. 
 Word of the early start began spreading from one congregation to another in the last week. No one questioned the rationale; they all know that things like walking the streets at night and gathering in large groups are about as wise as leaping into a lion's den. 
"The main problem is security, not only for Christmas, but for all the days of our lives," said the Rev. Yousif Thomas Mirkis of St. Joseph's Cathedral, one of the largest churches in the city. "Christmas this year will not be as special a day as it has been. But maybe families will still celebrate it with trees and cake, and maybe it will be closer in spirit to the first Christmas. The first one took place in poverty and under difficult circumstances for that small family. Maybe that's our one consolation this year. We're having a true Christmas." 
Those words reflect the mixed blessings that many people across Iraq are grappling with during a holiday celebrated here by Christians and also many Muslims, who consider Jesus to be a prophet who paved the way for Muhammad. 
About 4 percent of Iraq's 25 million people are Christians, and Christian villages are strung across the rugged north. Sectarian violence between Christians and Muslims is rare. Saddam Hussein did not single out the Christians for persecution, nor did he set other religious groups against them, as he often did to divide the country and maintain power. 
Though many Christians here are well educated and have middle-class jobs, they have remained relatively silent when it comes to politics.
Attendance at Sunday services has been dropping in the last month, partly a result of the gasoline shortage. Fears of guerrillas fighters and armed bandits have left people resigned to celebrating Christmas in their homes. Concern that insurgents might try to bomb churches or attack congregations has been heightened by reports warning of possible attacks this week, partly to avenge the capture of Saddam Hussein. 
Meanwhile, booming sales of Christmas goods mirror robust family budgets in parts of the middle class, even as the country registers a total unemployment rate of at least 25 percent. Majid Abbas, a part owner of Golden Toys on Outer Karada Street in Baghdad, said revenue from sales of plastic Christmas trees, lights and toys was up 70 percent this year. 
People in the United States might gripe about the crass commercialization of Christmas, but the end of import tariffs here has given Iraqis a vast, unprecedented choice of holiday goods. At Golden Toys, three little girls looked longingly at Barbie knockoffs from China. Five hundred singing Santas priced at $60 each -- also from China -- have flown off the shelves in less than a month. 
But the most popular toys at Mr. Majid's shop this holiday season are plastic tanks and Kalashnikov rifles, a vivid sign that violence is omnipresent, and a reminder that the shadow of war is not easily dispelled, even by spiritual light.
"We must be careful this year," said Joseph Saka, 54, a driver and telephone operator at Providence House, a Christian home for the elderly in an upscale neighborhood. "In our homes, there might not be a difference in the way we celebrate Christmas. But outside, there will be a difference. We have to be careful, especially when we go out with our families, especially with our daughters. We've heard of groups kidnapping girls and asking for money. Terrorists might bomb the Christians."
Mr. Saka said the Chaldean church in his neighborhood of Zaafaraniya will follow the city's other churches in moving midnight Mass to 4 p.m. or 5 p.m. on Christmas Eve. In his home, though, the celebrations will be as they have been: Family members will visit on Christmas morning; children will rip open gifts by the tree; whiskey will be drunk and a sweet pastry, klaacha, will be baked; pacha, a dish of whole roasted sheep's head, will be eaten.
But for some families, the day will be very different. Nahla Caco, 25, will not see her mother and sister this Christmas. They left for Istanbul three months ago because of fears over security, she said. The rest of the family does not plan its usual Christmas outing to a social club.
"My mother is the only one who knows how to make pacha, so we won't even have that this year," she said as she stood inside St. Joseph's Cathedral with her husband and daughters. 
Her husband, Aimen al-Shaheen, had his own worries. He quit a job at an electronics shop three months ago because he earned only about $50 a month, he said, and he thought the new Iraq would have an abundance of jobs. He was wrong. 
"There are no jobs out there," he said. "I'm unemployed now, and I need to support my family. We hope the peace will be for all people, that all people will have a good life. But we just don't know."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqi women walk by a shop selling Christmas items in Baghdad. Many Muslims celebrate the holiday, in addition to Iraqi Christians. (Photo by Ashley Gilbertson/Aurora, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CHRISTMAS (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (86%); ISLAMIC HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); FAMILY (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); COMPANY REVENUES (66%); IMPORT TRADE (65%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (65%); BUDGETS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); GASOLINE (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (96%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003 



595 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Don't Stop Dean 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE; E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
I am beginning to worry that Howard Dean may not get the Democratic nomination. Follow the convoluted reasoning:
 There are now three de facto political parties in the U.S. In order of present strength, these are: 
 (1) The Republican Party, in control of all three branches of government and most of the statehouses, fat and sassy because the economy is rising and the war is being won. 
(2) The Dean-Internet Party, its Bush-despising base so energized as to be frenetic, its leader happy to be the apostle of anger, its bandwidth bandwagon gaining momentum with each pulse of its cursing cursor. 
(3) The Old Democratic Party, its base off base, its leadership fractured, its third-way ideology -- vainly espoused by the Clintonian Democratic Leadership Council -- a lost cause without a rebel voice.
Can it be that the opposition to the reigning Republicans is deeply cleft in twain, as mouth-fillingly described above? What evidence is there that the present noisy jousting is not just the usual primary-season scuffling?
Consider the "you're a liar" clash between the Old Democrat poll front-runner, Wesley Clark, and the emerging Dean party's hero. 
Clark claims that Dean offered him the vice presidential nomination: "It was dangled out there . . . offered as much as it could have been." Dean denies it flatly: "I did not and have not offered anyone the vice presidency." Clark, egged on by his Clinton handlers, imputes a dishonorable motive to Dean: "Why is he squirming? Because maybe he's done the same for a lot of other people."
One of these men is not telling the truth. Most voters would say that one of these boldfaced names is a baldfaced liar, though charitable souls would call it a misunderstanding. ("I can't make a 'formal' offer at this stage, Wes, but if I could, wouldja?") Despite Dean's "dangle," Clark cast his lot with the Old Dems.
Following this week's he-said-he-said, the unforgiving Dean slammed Clark's Clintonites and their ideological home, the Democratic Leadership Council. Updating his early declaration, Dean called for unity by deriding the D.L.C. as "sort of the Republican part of the Democratic Party -- the Republican wing of the Democratic Party."
Stung, the D.L.C., now headed by Senator Evan Bayh and the Bill Clinton guru Al From, complained online about Dean's "insulting charge of crypto-Republicanism" and disapproved of "the brain-dead tactic" and "incoherent rage" of his followers.
This gets down to the Rockefeller-Goldwater level of eye-gouging that is not forgotten at the national convention. What if Dean, as the pollwagon now suggests, trounces the Clinton Establishment -- Clark, Lieberman, Kerry, even Edwards and Sharpton -- in the primaries? Will they loyally kiss the ring of the winner?
Of course they will. They'll rally round to hold the Democratic Party together even as it is taken over by the Dean-Internet set. They'll pay lip service and lose respectably, eyeing a comeback and takeover in '08.
But what if Dean loses momentum in Iowa, does "less than expected" in New Hampshire, gets clobbered in Carolina or blows his cool at media tormentors once too often? What if the Old Democrat center, revivified as a stop-Dean movement and helped by the pendulum press, actually stops Dean? Could happen. Then what?
He is not the sort who gives up easily. Nor is he likely to ask Clark or whomever in a smoke-free room for the No. 2 slot. Dean has grass-roots troops, a unique fund-raising organization, the name recognition and the fire-in-the-belly, messianic urge to go all the way on his own ticket. 
Politronic chatter picked up by pundits monitoring lefty blogsites and al-Gora intercepts flashes the warning: If stopped, Dean may well bolt.
That split of opposition would be a bonanza for Bush. In a two-man race, the odds are that he would beat Dean comfortably, but in a three-party race, Bush would surely waltz in with the greatest of ease.
Here's my problem: Such a lopsided, hubris-inducing result would be bad for Bush, bad for the G.O.P., bad for the country. Landslides lead to tyrannous majorities and big trouble. 
Which is why I worry about Dean not getting the Democratic nomination. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BANDWIDTH (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); EVAN BAYH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003 



596 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: TURF; 
The Price of Luxury Is Stirring Again

BYLINE:  By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
SO you thought you could give the apartment hunt a rest this week?
 Think again. 
 In past years, the New York real estate market basically shut down for the holiday season. But this year brokers are reporting a shopping frenzy, with buyers fighting over apartments as if they were the last Hokey Pokey Elmo at Toys "R" Us.
"I figured it was going to be dead because it always is," said Michele Kleier, president of Gumley Haft Kleier, a real estate firm specializing in luxury properties. But she has been unnaturally busy with apartment showings this season. "I've had to change my haircut three times," she said. "Every time I go to make an appointment, I have to cancel it." 
All over the city, brokers are trumpeting the return of apartment prices that in many cities would sound like the annual parks budget. Although low interest rates have kept the market for apartments under $1 million buzzing throughout the recession, the market for higher-priced places -- starting at, say, $1.7 million -- has until recently been softer. But now, with the economy improving, even multimillion-dollar apartments are being snapped up.
Ms. Kleier said that just before Thanksgiving she advised the seller of a prewar co-op on the Upper East Side that had been on the market for 14 months to accept an offer below her asking price of about $6 million. She said she told the seller, "Nothing is going to happen until after Christmas, and let's just sign the contract." Then, all of sudden, buyers were clamoring to see it. Last week, one buyer offered the asking price, Ms. Kleier said, and the seller has signed a contract on that bid.
Facing a Dow above 10,000 and expectations of sweet Wall Street bonuses, New York home buyers find themselves chasing a dwindling supply of apartments.
Among those competing for the increasingly rare two- and three-bedroom units in the best buildings are suburbanites who want back into the city action and families with three and even four children who have decided to stay instead of fleeing to Westchester. Add to that couples having their first child and families who think it's time for an upgrade, and it's a cutthroat world out there.
Even the shrewdest buyers are struggling. Alexis Hilton Mintz, a 29-year-old sales agent at Fox Realty in Manhattan, and her husband, a real estate financier, have been looking for a classic seven- or eight-room apartment on the Upper East Side for several months for themselves and their daughter, born nearly three months ago. They hoped to find a "fixer upper," and were willing to pay up to $2 million.
This month, Ms. Mintz said, they bid on a seven-room apartment that was in "terrible condition," badly in need of kitchen and bathroom renovations. But it was within their price range. Although the sellers initially accepted the offer, she said, they later got a higher one.
"Things seem better, so people are going to go spend," said Amanda Brainerd, a sales agent at Warburg Realty in Manhattan. "Most of my customers are in the $3 million to $5 million range and are finding nothing. That's a lot of money. Hello?"
Earlier this year, many buyers were anticipating a market collapse that would let them jump in. Suddenly, "people are thinking, 'If I don't buy now, I'm going to end up paying more money,' " said Pamela Liebman, chief executive of the Corcoran Group, one of the largest real estate firms in New York. In recent weeks, she said, a $10 million apartment incited a bidding war, and a $13 million town house sold to the first buyer who walked through.
Developers of 43 West 64th, a new 32-unit luxury condominium project near Lincoln Center, say sales have picked up markedly in the last three months. The condos went on sale in July last year, but in a little over a year only 10 sold. Since Labor Day, the developer has sold 16 units, including 3 penthouses, one for $10 million. "A lot of people who were waiting for a correction in the market now can't afford to wait," said Bret Bobo, senior vice president for sales and marketing at the Athena Group, the developer.
Prices for luxury apartments have been creeping up since summer. Miller Samuel, a New Yorkreal estate appraiser, said the average price of Manhattan co-ops and condos that sold for $2 million or more increased 13.6 percent in the third quarter of 2003, to $3,461,532, from $3,047,690 in the second quarter. The buoyancy on Wall Street "has a tremendous implication on the real estate market," said Jonathan Miller, the firm's president.
Indeed, Jason Bram, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said the combined salaries of workers in the securities industry make up about 20 percent of all earnings in New York City.
All the new activity means that buyers are once again suffering sticker shock. When Donna Olshan, a broker in Manhattan, recently showed a seven-room apartment on the Upper East Side, one buyer nearly burst into tears upon hearing that the asking price was $2,495,000. "These units were going for $2 million or $2.1 million earlier this year," Ms. Olshan said. "She missed it."
The trend is not limited to Manhattan. In Bronxville, N.Y., in Westchester, sales of more than $2 million are up 64 percent -- 18 this year, as against 11 last year -- said Susan Kelty Law, an agent with Houlihan Lawrence there. And in Brooklyn Heights, where the highest price for a town house was just under $3 million last year, a comparable five-story town house sold for $3.7 million this year, said Christopher Thomas, president of William B. May of Brooklyn. Three town houses are now on the market at more than $3 million, he said.
Brokers and buyers alike are taken aback at the pace of the market. Cyrilla Layland, a sales agent at Stribling & Associates in Manhattan, said she had tried to sell a seven-room Park Avenue apartment for six months. "I must have shown it 150 times," she said. "I thought I would scream." But in the space of two weeks in October, she said, "I was inundated with four of the most superb bids -- I couldn't believe it." A buyer signed a contract last month, just under the asking price.
Many buyers have had to adjust their price ranges. Aimee and Sam Goldenberg, who have three children and a five-bedroom, five-bathroom house in Wayside, N.J., are looking for a three-bedroom apartment, preferably on the Upper West Side. They want a place in the city because their youngest daughter, Jodi, 12, wants to become a professional singer, and she and her mother have to shuttle in and out up to three times a week for vocal lessons and meetings with Jodi's manager, lawyers and producers.
When the couple began their search about four months ago, they thought they would spend $800,000 to buy a place that needed lots of work. Mrs. Goldenberg quickly realized that they would have to pay more. But for $1 million, she said, "I thought I was going to have everything I wanted." she said. No way. They offered $1.55 million for a three-bedroom, three-bathroom apartment with an asking price of $1.7 million. It sold to another bidder.
After a while, even though the couple kept raising their price range, it seemed that "whatever number you say, 'O.K., we're going to look at it,' by the time I got to that number, it didn't satisfy our needs," Mrs. Goldenberg said.
Antonio Cosentino, a Corcoran broker who is helping with their search, said the family is taking a break from looking over the holidays, but only because "there is nothing to show them."
The lack of two- and three-bedroom apartments has forced many buyers to spend more than they had planned -- even in neighborhoods they had not previously considered. When Frederik and Ann Marie Aase decided to move with their two children to Manhattan from Dobbs Ferry, in Westchester, they spent nearly nine months looking, and recently bought a new $1.66 million three-bedroom condo in Chelsea. They couldn't find anything they liked in their price range on the Upper East or the Upper West Sides, but even in Chelsea, Mr. Aase said, "we ended up spending an extra 20 to 25 percent above our price range."
Ever the Manhattan real estate agent, Maverick Scott, the Halstead Property agent who worked with the Aases, said they have made a wise investment. If they immediately resold the condo, which they bought just this month, he said, "it would sell for $2 million or $2.1 million."
There is no sign of a pause in the upward march of real estate prices. Amy Katcher, a broker at Brown Harris Stevens in Manhattan, said brokers have already been told about apartments that will go on the market in January, and "we see the prices are already up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: QUICKENING -- Sam and Aimee Goldenberg, at rear, with their children, Jodi (left), Dina and Adam, expected to pay $800,000 for an apartment. They eventually offered $1.55 million for a three-bedroom priced at $1.7 million, and lost to another bidder. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono/The New York Times)(pg. F6) Drawing (Drawing by Otto Steininger)(pg. F1) Graph: "Paying More for More"Average selling prices for Manhattan luxury apartments ($2 million and over) were up in the third quarter from third quarter prices the two previous years. Graph tracks selling prices for Manhattan luxury apartments since 2001.(Source by Miller Samuel Inc.)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); FAMILY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); BUDGETS (73%); THANKSGIVING (72%); INTEREST RATES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: TOYS 'R' US INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (58%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2003 



597 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Disputing Celebration Of Jefferson

BYLINE:  By JILL LEPORE; Jill Lepore teaches history at Harvard, and her most recent book is "A Is for American: Letters and Other Characters in the Newly United States."

 BODY:
'NEGRO PRESIDENT'
Jefferson and the Slave Power
By Garry Wills
274 pages. Houghton Mifflin. $25.
 On Feb. 11, 1801, the House of Representatives was called upon to break a tie in the Electoral College, in which Thomas Jefferson and Aaron Burr had each received 73 votes, besting the incumbent, John Adams, who got only 65. Seven days and 36 ballots later, the House elected Jefferson to the presidency. Before the week was out, Adams wrote to him: "I shall leave in the stables of the United States seven Horses and two Carriages with Harness. These may not be suitable for you: but they will certainly save you a considerable Expense." With this small gesture of federal economy, Adams handed Jefferson the reins of government. 
 The election of 1800 is one of the most important in American history. Jefferson argued that it would fix our national character and determine whether republicanism or aristocracy would prevail. If historians have not always agreed that the nation's political destiny was at stake, they have invariably acknowledged the election as a turning point, not least because it led, in 1804, to the passage of the 12th Amendment, separating the election of the president and vice president. Moreover, Jefferson's inauguration, on March 4, 1801, the first held in the new capital city, marked the first transfer of power from one American political party to another.
Making the event more memorable still, the new president's eloquent, olive-branch-offering inaugural address, stating "We are all republicans, we are all federalists," is one of the most commonly cited documents in the American archive.
In " 'Negro President': Jefferson and the Slave Power," Garry Wills crashes the party celebrating Jefferson's election as a triumph for political pluralism with this sobering reminder: "If real votes alone had been counted, Adams would have been returned to office." Jefferson's victory depended on the constitutional calculus that counted an enslaved human being as three-fifths of a person for the purpose of establishing a state's representation in the House, and consequently in the Electoral College. "Though Jefferson, admittedly, received eight more votes than Adams in the Electoral College," Mr. Wills writes, "at least 12 of his votes were not based on the citizenry that could express its will but on the blacks owned by Southern masters."
Jefferson's reliance on the slave count did not go unobserved by the party he ousted. In New England the Federalist Timothy Pickering labeled Jefferson a Negro president, elected by Negro electors and Negro Congresses. Or as one Boston newspaper put it in 1801, the sage of Monticello, famous for humbly walking through Washington's muddy streets to his own inauguration, had ridden "into the temple of Liberty on the shoulders of slaves."
How could the Constitution set the apportionment of delegates to the national legislature, Mr. Wills asks, so as to allow a man to gain 300 extra votes in Congress by owning 500 human beings? His answer recovers for modern readers the intensity of the debate over the three-fifths clause, as when Gouverneur Morris declared at the Constitutional Convention, "The admission of slaves into the representation, when fairly explained, comes to this: that the inhabitant of Georgia and South Carolina who goes to the coast of Africa and, in defiance of the most sacred laws of humanity, tears away his fellow creatures from their dearest connections and damns them to the most cruel bondage, shall have more votes in a government instituted for protection of the rights of mankind than the citizen of Pennsylvania or New Jersey who views with a laudable horror so nefarious a practice."
Mr. Wills's subject leads him inevitably to criticize Jefferson, a man he admires deeply. "My Jefferson is a giant," Mr. Wills writes, "but a giant trammeled in a net and obliged (he thought) to keep repairing and strengthening the coils of that net." The consequence of Mr. Wills's aching ambivalence is that " 'Negro President' " is not really a book about Thomas Jefferson. It is a book instead that seeks to raise the reputations of two of Jefferson's adversaries: Aaron Burr, remembered largely as a traitor and a killer, and Timothy Pickering, derided by more than a few contemporaries as a fanatic.
Mr. Wills argues that Burr has been wrongly painted as the villain of the 1800 election, working behind the scenes to manipulate the process. Instead, he suggests, Burr was more like Al Gore "when faced with the Bush team's legal blitzkrieg" after the 2000 election. The real crime of Burr, Mr. Wills says, was that he "tried to endanger the slave power." Pickering, who was quartermaster general of the Continental Army, secretary of war, secretary of state, senator and a congressman, argued forcefully against the "Negro president," and passionately opposed Jefferson's two most important projects -- the Louisiana Purchase in 1803 and the Embargo Act of 1807 -- on the ground that they amounted to an extension of the economic power of slave states. More than once Pickering advocated New England's secession from the union. Pickering's crime was the same as Burr's, but his punishment was more severe: his country has forgotten him.
Why resurrect Timothy Pickering? Because Pickering, like Burr, provides Mr. Wills with a mouthpiece for his attack on Jefferson's many concessions to slavery. The usefulness of Pickering for the purposes of this book lies in the unblinking way he stated, over and over, that "nothing the South did could make slavery tolerable." Given Mr. Wills's talent for writing a morally engaged history, it is difficult not to wonder if " 'Negro President' " would have been more powerful if he had wrestled the giant himself.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Garry Wills uses historical figures to espouse his positions. (Photo by Steve Kagan/Houghton Mifflin)(pg. E26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); LITERATURE (74%); HISTORY (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: LEPORE, JILL; WILLS, GARRY; JEFFERSON, THOMAS (1743-1826) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NORTHEAST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: NEGRO PRESIDENT: JEFFERSON AND THE SLAVE POWER (BOOK)#036T031231SL04A01# 

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2003 



598 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: In Berlin, a Showcase of American Talent and Thought Marks an Anniversary 

BYLINE:  By SARAH MEANS LOHMANN 

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
Alvin Youngblood Hart sidled up to the microphone in black leather pants and a plaid shirt, dreadlocks tumbling out of his leather cap.
 "The whole world has gone mad, especially recently," said Mr. Hart, the blues guitarist and 2003 Grammy Award nominee. Then he leaned back and used his guitar to make the same point. 
 Up front, a row of his colleagues from the American Academy in Berlin, where he was visiting for a month, clapped and cheered. On this particular night in November, Mr. Hart was king of the stage in the darkened movie theater at the Neues Kant Kino on the west side of Berlin. But each of the 11 fellows would have the chance to walk a red carpet of their choosing during their stay.
To be an American Academy fellow means being given a platform for your work by night and an oasis to conduct your research by day.
The American Academy, which just celebrated its fifth anniversary, held 118 cultural and political events last year. It is a temporary home for American scholars, journalists, economists and artists who, supported by sizable stipends, spend a month to a year in a beautiful villa on the Wannsee, a lake just outside the German capital. But it has also become a place for Germans and Americans to interact and talk with, and sometimes yell at, one another.
The informal design of the place "is an imminent form of critique of the insularity of some German institutions," said Gary Smith, the academy's director. "I don't think the academy should be an academic monastery."
So the fellows, chosen from about 200 applicants, spend their days writing, traveling, visiting exhibitions, speaking or sometimes just exploring Berlin in the name of the creative process. But important work gets done: Jeffrey Eugenides, for example, wrote part of his novel "Middlesex" (Farrar, Straus & Giroux), which won a 2003 Pulitzer Prize, during his fellowship last year, and Ward Just set a recent novel, "The Weather in Berlin" (Houghton Mifflin, 2002), in an academy suspiciously like this one, where he was also a fellow.
Pierre Joris, a Belgian-born poet, has long studied post-World War II writers who wrote in German, but he had never been to Berlin. The city became important for him as he began to translate the works of writers like Gottfried Benn and Paul Celan, a Romanian Jew who wrote in German.
"I walked along Berlin's canal, the Spree, the other day," he said. "I needed to walk the path of the poem 'You Lie' by Celan. I needed to imagine Benn where he was in the 1920's."
For journalists like Richard Cohen, a columnist for The Washington Post, time at the academy provided new sources of information.
"I thought it would be good to get my head out of Washington and look at America from abroad," he said.
Mr. Cohen made his mark on Berlin in October when he gave his controversial speech "America, the Misunderstood," a lecture on American values and the reasons for the Iraq war. "The reaction was much more hostile from the Americans in the audience than the Germans," he said. "It made me recapitulate my thinking."
Fellows can eat almost every meal together if they choose, and there are optional programs set up by the academy, like visits to the Bundestag and film screenings.
"It's a little bit infantilizing," said Svetlana Boym, a professor of Slavic literature at Harvard and a current fellow. "It's like we have returned to high school. But we have intellectual relations and arguments with specific people," she said, adding that the group has become close.
As she works on a book about the tensions among public, philosophical and artistic freedoms, her interactions with German colleagues have helped illuminate the relationship between art and politics, she said. 
The academy tends to draw Americans and West Berliners from a left-leaning intellectual niche. But the German interior minister, Otto Schily, saw the academy's influence as reaching beyond the elite of Berlin.
"When one views those who go to the American Academy as multipliers in their communities, then the academy has changed how those in Berlin view America," Mr. Schily said in an interview. 
Certainly it provided a forum for heated debates during tensions between Germany and the United States over the Iraq war. At the height of these disagreements, Mr. Schily debated Richard C. Holbrooke, who was American ambassador to Germany in the early 1990's and later ambassador to the United Nations, and was instrumental in establishing the academy.
"The farsightedness of setting up the academy when there is such a high level of tension and anger in the German-American relationship cannot be underestimated," said John Kornblum, another former American ambassador to Germany and now the chairman of Lazard & Company GmbH, Germany, an investment bank. "It has the broadest mixture of people who attend its events of any trans-Atlantic center here."
The Aspen Institute Berlin, which is often mentioned in the same conversations as the American Academy, focuses more on politics and foreign policy. It describes itself as "a trans-Atlantic marketplace of ideas" and is run by a moderately conservative American, Jeffrey Gedmin, who has been active in the German debate over Bush administration policies.
The American Academy was created by Mr. Holbrooke, who enlisted the support of Henry A. Kissinger, the former secretary of state, and Richard von Weizsacker, the former German president. As the American military left Berlin in September 1994, they announced plans to establish it.
"There was a need to create some institution that symbolized the spirit of the new era based on intellectual rather than military ties," Mr. Kissinger said in an interview.
Mr. Holbrooke said, "Our mission is to keep alive the special relationship between Americans and the people of Berlin." The academy, he said, was designed to serve as a continuing bridge outside government channels. "It has never proved its value more than during this time of tensions in the official relationship, when it is serving as a bridge between the two countries," he said.
Today the academy publishes a semiannual newsletter called The Berlin Journal, sent to 5,200 policy makers and alumni. There are plans for an English-language television program featuring American political and cultural experts, which could start this spring.
With an operating budget of $2.7 million for 2004, the academy has attracted about 80 private and corporate donors. But the largest are the descendants of Hans Arnhold, a wealthy banker who built the villa in 1921 and was forced to leave when the Nazis came to power. 
Arnhold's relatives, especially his daughter, Anna-Maria Kellen, and her husband, Stephen Kellen, donated the money to renovate the villa and start the academy. The result has been an institution that is more than just a policy forum.
"This involves a friendship that stands independently, that doesn't simply revolve around whether a pre-emptive strike is the right security policy," Mr. Weizsacker said in an interview. "The American Academy stands for the values of the Enlightenment, for the American Constitution that provides a structure for checks and balances, and for a state under the rule of law."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard von Weizsacker, the former German president, flanked by two American Academy fellows, Dana Villa, left, and Michael Steinberg. (Photo by Mark Simon/Black Star for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (90%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (90%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (87%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (77%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%); FILM (75%); MUSIC (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); WORLD WAR II (50%) CULTURE; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (53%); WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY IN BERLIN 

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: LOHMANN, SARAH MEANS 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (97%) GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (95%) GERMANY; BERLIN (GERMANY)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2003 



599 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Federally Financed Health Clinics Woo a Higher-Paying Clientele 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: TOPPENISH, Wash., Dec. 24 

 BODY:
By all appearances, Sara Guendulein and Debra Meyer have little in common.
 Ms. Guendulein, a 35-year-old Mexican immigrant expecting her fifth child, picks cucumbers here in the fields east of the Cascades. She can afford only state-subsidized insurance and receives prenatal care at a community clinic. 
 Ms. Meyer, a 36-year-old middle-class woman who works in retail, has private insurance -- and, in fact, paid for in-vitro fertilization to become pregnant with her fourth child. But she, too, goes to the community clinic for prenatal care.
Around the country, government-financed community clinics that normally tend to the poor are trying to attract more paying patients like Ms. Meyer to help cover expenses. Many see it as a way to deal with budget cuts and an increase in patients thrown out of work by the sluggish economy.
"Community clinics are developing themselves beyond just being the poor person's clinic," said Mary Looker, program manager of primary care for the Washington Department of Health. "The future is that they will be a huge part of the health care system. They aren't the last resort anymore."
Community clinics generally operate on a pay-if-you-can basis. The poor often pay nothing or a heavily subsidized amount.
Many clinics are hesitant to admit they are marketing themselves to the paying public because it seems so contrary to their central purpose of serving the poor, but the trend could help protect clinics that serve migrant farm workers, the homeless or residents of remote rural areas. It could also signal a shift in how millions of Americans get health care.
A five-year initiative by President Bush calls for opening 645 more health centers and expanding 555 others nationwide by 2006, with a goal of increasing the number of patients served to 16 million from 10 million.
The federal dollars, though, are intended for the estimated 44 million uninsured Americans, and the money accounts for only a small part of clinics' financing. So clinics are responding with services that attract patients with insurance.
In Texas, several clinics developed programs geared toward managing chronic illnesses like diabetes and heart disease. The programs were so successful that privately insured patients showed up.
Some clinics in Florida offer clients an electronic record of their health visits, information that will eventually be accessible to patients online. That is likely to appeal to Internet users, who are, in turn, likely to be employed and insured.
Florida officials also focus both on the very poor and on those with insurance by putting clinics in highly visible places, like strip malls. And they offer an immunization program for the elderly that draws entire families to the clinics.
The Yakima Valley clinic, on the edge of the Yakama Indian Reservation here, offers medical and dental care, mental health services, a pharmacy and surgical procedures.
Darnell Dent, chief executive of the Community Health Network of Washington, which administers a health insurance plan for the clinic, said the challenge was for clinics to attract the privately insured while not losing their central mission: serving poor people.
"We know that we have to diversify as a health plan," Mr. Dent said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (92%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (92%); FARM LABOR (90%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (75%); HEALTH CARE (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); CHRONIC DISEASES (74%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); RETAILERS (71%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (71%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (69%); DIABETES (69%); INTERNET & WWW (60%); HEART DISEASE (60%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); BUDGET CUTS (54%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2003 



600 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Bad News Takes a Holiday in Germany 

BYLINE:  Reuters

DATELINE: BERLIN, Dec. 24 

 BODY:
Germany's top-selling newspaper, Bild, published nothing but good news on Wednesday, dropping its normal fare of crime, violence and scandal for articles about tax cuts, falling gas prices and accelerating economic growth.
 "There's only good news today," Bild wrote in two-inch-high letters at the top of Page 1, where the giant headlines are usually devoted to sex scandals, Germany's cannibal trial, killers, adulterers or dishonest politicians. 
 Urging Germans to shed their natural frosty demeanor for the Christmas holiday season, a Bild columnist, Peter Bacher, said there was always plenty of good news around, even if it was "sometimes overshadowed by evil, horror and terror."
Bild, which has 12 million readers, also reported churches were full for Christmas Eve services, California's earthquake spared San Francisco, the stock market rose, and political leaders promised more big tax cuts.
Skipping its usual "loser of the day" entry, Bild picked "winners of the day," including the rock star Ozzy Osbourne, who was released from intensive care in a hospital after an accident in Britain. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); WRITERS (78%); SEX SCANDALS (77%); CHRISTMAS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2003 

 
