

1 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 15; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Our Means

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle; Louis Uchitelle covers economics for The New York Times.

 BODY:

THE END OF AFFLUENCE
The Causes and Consequences
of America's Economic Dilemma.
By Jeffrey Madrick.
Illustrated. 223 pp. New York:
Random House. $22. 
HISTORICAL accounts are a wonderful tonic in economics. Unfortunately, the din of economic theory usually drowns them out. But the story of what has actually happened to American capitalism since the Civil War offers a better insight into our problems today than theory, which so often portrays the national economy as if it were a morality play.
The old prosperity is gone. Neither historians nor theorists doubt that. But while the theorists promise redemption if Americans have the good sense or the discipline to adjust their behavior, the historians shake their heads: the circumstances that so favored the United States for more than 100 years have disappeared irrevocably.
Theorists dominate the economics profession and the public debate. Economic historians, a small band, have been pretty much confined to publishing in professional journals. But now Jeffrey Madrick in "The End of Affluence" has brought economic history vividly into the public domain. Perhaps his book was inevitable. For nearly 20 years we have counted on the theorists to make us whole again. Their nostrums haven't done that, and Americans inevitably are turning to other voices as living standards deteriorate for tens of millions of them. Mr. Madrick addresses this yearning, but not by offering five easy steps to a higher standard of living. What we need above all, he says, is self-awareness.
From the Civil War to the early 1970's, no other nation, no matter how advanced technologically, matched our gift for mass production or the special circumstances that so multiplied the national wealth. We became in our own eyes a chosen people. And now we resist acknowledging that our status has changed. "Perhaps we can, in our straitened circumstances, remake our lives on a sounder basis than in the past," Mr. Madrick writes. "But we will not do so by optimistically assuming that this new world has remained as accommodating as its predecessor and all that ails us is that we have taken a wrong moral or ideological turn."
Lacking self-awareness, we are overly swayed by the self-flagellation of so many theorists, executives and politicians. They label as causes what the historians say are only symptoms of the economic malaise. For the historians, the deterioration in our schools is a result of the decline. So is the huge Federal budget deficit and Americans' failure to save more -- a failure that the theorists call profligacy, which deprives the nation of the wherewithal to finance vital investment.
Mr. Madrick is not himself a university-trained economic historian. He is a freelance journalist, a graduate of Harvard Business School, whose first book, "Taking America" (1987), was a historical account of the corporate merger phenomenon. Now he has steeped himself in economic history and synthesized the historians' findings, expressing them more pointedly than they themselves have done. So "The End of Affluence" is unusual: it is important for economists, but accessible to general readers. In the tradition of the economists Robert Heilbroner, Herbert Stein and John Kenneth Galbraith, or the journalist William Greider, Mr. Madrick makes sophisticated economics easy reading.
There are weak spots in his book, the most glaring being his vague suggestions for improving the national lot, although the whole point of his book is that there is no way for America's economy to regain its old, singular status. His various suggestions appear in the final chapter, and they can be ignored.
The history definitely should not be ignored. Nothing is more striking in this book than the author's account of economic growth since the Civil War. For 100 years, until the early 70's, the American economy grew at an average annual rate of 3.4 percent, excluding the effects of inflation. That is, all the output of a factory worker, a lawyer, a blacksmith, a drummer, a truck driver and everyone else, valued in dollars, rose on average by 3.4 percent a year.
No other nation fared as well. The steady profits that came with this robust growth encouraged American capitalists to invest heavily in the machinery and technologies of the day, and that helped to make their workers very productive. Every year they turned out more, collecting part of their rising output in higher wages. And this golden march upward continued despite temporary setbacks from crashes and financial panics. Even the Great Depression counts as only a temporary setback.
Over the last 22 years, however, the nation's economic growth has slowed to 2.3 percent a year on average. The decline of 1.1 percentage points, added up from 1973 through 1993, represents $12 trillion in lost wealth, Mr. Madrick calculates. That $12 trillion, adjusted to reflect the dollar's buying power in 1987, would have paid for the health insurance, pensions, new factories, modern infrastructure and rising incomes whose absence so troubles the nation. It is America's lost prosperity. "The enormity of the $12 trillion shortfall since 1973 can be envisioned in many ways," Mr. Madrick writes. "Twelve trillion dollars is more than enough to have bought each of America's homeowners a new house, or paid off all of our government, mortgage and credit card debt, or replaced all of our nation's factories, including capital equipment, with new ones."
Why did this slowdown occur? The answer lies in mass production, which in the 19th century became America's second frontier. Other nations were equal to the United States, or even superior, in science, education and technology. But they lacked the huge quantities of raw materials necessary for mass production, and a customer base anywhere near the size of the American population to purchase all the output.
MASS production, in turn, gave Americans a golden touch in developing other industries and skills. Railroads arose to carry the goods and link the customers. We outdistanced the world in advertising, innovative management and mass marketing. Only after World War II did Japan and Western Europe get the opportunity to become powerhouses in mass production. Rising world trade, falling tariffs and rapid, inexpensive transportation gave them access to the necessary materials and to overseas customers. Japan in particular made inroads in the American auto market, against managers who did not, at first, recognize the danger.
And then the Japanese and the Europeans got another leg up: mass production lost its overarching importance as a generator of wealth. It gave way to a system of flexible production, which developing nations are also mastering. Instead of making one product or model -- a Ford Mustang, for example -- by the tens of thousands on a single assembly line, new electronic machinery made possible "batch" production. Using computers to change tooling, an assembly line can turn out small quantities of many different products and models. That gave rise to parallel changes in other industries, "as products from banking services to specialty clothing became more varied in order to reach targeted groups of consumers."
American corporations responded slowly, and reluctantly, to the new era, in part because flexible production promised lower returns on their investments than mass production. Mr. Madrick should have told this story in more detail. And he should have taken more notice of Government policies, stretching back to the Carter Administration, that have discouraged economic expansion. But his main point, that even in the best of circumstances corporate America no longer enjoys a special advantage, has been ignored for too long.
The United States is still the wealthiest nation. But as Mr. Madrick notes, the hourly output of American workers rose much more rapidly in the mass production era than may ever be possible in the age of the new "batch" system. And this inevitable slowdown in productivity may one day become the most significant explanation for America's nearly stagnant wage growth and the reluctance of corporations to invest as heavily in expansion as they did in the past.
Not all economic historians are as fatalistic on this point as Mr. Madrick, although they tend in this direction. As he puts it, to claim that the new ways can be as enriching for Americans as the old "requires a leap of faith that our economic experience doesn't yet justify."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: END OF AFFLUENCE, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS HISTORY (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WRITERS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LITERATURE (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (60%); MERGERS (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; MADRICK, JEFFREY JEFFREY MADRICK (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



2 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: What a Zoo!

BYLINE: By Francine Prose; Francine Prose's new novel is "Hunters and Gatherers."

 BODY:

ANIMAL PLANET
By Scott Bradfield.
231 pp. New York:
Picador USA. $22. 
LONG before animal behaviorists thoroughly convinced us that dear Fido and Mittens have secret inner lives of their own, writers were using our furred and feathered friends to express humankind's deepest hopes and fears, to debate our urgent questions and satirize our foibles. The Persian poet Attar summoned "The Conference of the Birds" to discuss the nature of God, and Chaucer's Nun's Priest invited the barnyard to examine the faults of women. Anatole France took on the follies of religion in "Penguin Island," while George Orwell's "Animal Farm" attacked the porcine cruelties of the totalitarian state.
Now, in keeping with our modern, more global perspective, Scott Bradfield has taken the birds and beasts off the island and the farm to populate his new novel, "Animal Planet." In this inventive satire, Mr. Bradfield (whose previous books include "The History of Luminous Motion") tracks a rebellion in which the animals rise up to overthrow their human oppressors and are defeated -- not by the firepower the military deploys, but by the seductions of media fame and corporate marketing strategies.
The novel's rabble-rousing hero is a well-traveled crow named Charlie, whom we meet haranguing the depressed denizens of the London Zoo. Like the rest of us, these unfortunates have watched their creature comforts steadily decline, and have been obliged to subsist on the seepage from trickle-down economics: "Winter came early that year, and the animals began hearing a lot of 'R' words they couldn't pronounce. Words like 'recession,' 'redundancy' and 'rationalization.' . . . The zoo personnel began to look more pale and unraveled than usual."
With help from "a radical-extremist guerrilla faction of Animal Action!" the animals stage an insurrection inspired by Charlie's rhetoric: "You can form your own government, make your own laws, relearn your own culture. Haven't you guys seen 'Spartacus'?" When the "London Zoo Rebellion" is brutally repressed, Charlie decamps to Antarctica, where he finds his most loyal supporter in a dreamy, alienated penguin named Buster. Penguin Island is pre-emptively invaded by a strike force of humans armed with "tanks, barbed wire . . . history books, foreign trade secretaries, corporate spokespersons and a lot of dumb, well-intentioned military grunts just looking for adventure and a good time."
After this lively preamble, much of Mr. Bradfield's novel is spent detailing the all-too-familiar ways in which the animal revolution is defanged by the consumer planet. A consortium of media and marketing powers decides that Charlie may be the hot new product. He's signed on by a tough-talking literary agent named Bunny. It's not long before Charlie's career takes off, nor is it much longer until his 15 minutes of fame are over -- with disastrous consequences for the whole animal kingdom.
Much of this is funny, and Mr. Bradfield is attempting something admirably large. At its very best, his language can recall the hucksterish high energy of a Stanley Elkin sentence. But these bright instants are separated by intervals during which we may wish that the narrative line were moving along more as the crow flies, so to speak.
The finest satires -- like Orwell's -- have the speed, the directness and the classical simplicity of a knife slicing straight to the bone. But this book lingers on the way to animal apocalypse. Mr. Bradfield clutters his story with dispensable subplots and with minor characters (the grungy, thick-skulled, quasi-nymphomaniacal "Eskimo chick" named Muk Luk) who may cause a queasy frisson even in readers who are far from being slaves to political correctness. Muk Luk suggests an R. Crumb character drawn without the artist's evenhanded and oddly redemptive rage.
Scott Bradfield writes beautifully, and it is a pity that his book isn't a bit more streamlined. The fault may be one of simple misapprehension, of what this novel's talented author fails to realize: though we are endlessly fascinated by animal and human behavior, we may have -- as a species -- a somewhat more limited interest in animals denatured enough to behave like humans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ANIMAL PLANET (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ANTARCTICA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); 

COMPANY: ANIMAL PLANET (80%); LONDON ZOO REBELLION (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ANTARCTICA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); WRITERS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (89%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); HISTORY (72%); LITERARY AGENTS (72%); COMPANY STRATEGY (71%); RELIGION (71%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); MARKETING STRATEGY (66%); 

PERSON: PROSE, FRANCINE; BRADFIELD, SCOTT SCOTT BRADFIELD (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



3 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 6; Page 32; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: THE CAPITALIST;
The Beckner Effect

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LEWIS 

 BODY:
EARLY LAST MONTH, a friend of mine who trades bonds on Wall Street phoned to tell me about something she called the Beckner Effect. As I understood her, there was this journalist in Washington named Beckner whom no one on Wall Street had ever laid eyes on but whose articles about Federal Reserve Board policy regularly sent the whole of the multitrillion-dollar American bond market into epileptic convulsions. "You are sitting at your desk and you think you've got the market all figured out," my friend explained, "and then all of a sudden there's one of these kamikaze events. The market dives, 10 lights start to flash and everyone at once is calling to ask you if you saw the Beckner article."
A colorful mythology has been created on Wall Street to explain this terrifying invisible force: Beckner has special access to the Fed, Beckner is being used by Alan Greenspan, Beckner is Alan Greenspan. He arrives in the markets like a bolt from the blue and launches his rockets directly onto the neon-green screens on New York trading desks, through something called Market News Service, which, you have to admit, sounds very much like a front for the C.I.A. 
 At any rate, my friend was suspicious. She suggested that I fly down to Washington and find out whether Beckner actually exists and, if so, what he looks like. And so, just after 10 o'clock at night on Sept. 5, I called the Washington office of Market News Service. I expected voice mail. I got a live human being.
"Steve Beckner, please."
"This is he."
I explained my intentions, wondering why this titan who shifted around billions of dollars with a single article by day bothered to hang around an office until 10 o'clock at night or, for that matter, answered the company's switchboard. When I'd finished, there was a long pause on the other end of the line.
"I am aware of the Beckner Effect," he said, but not happily. His subtext translated roughly as: "Leave me alone. I am a humble scribe. It's not my fault that I make and break Wall Street careers."
He agreed to have lunch with me the following week and then returned to whatever he was doing. What he was doing became clear a few hours later, when the following brief message from Beckner flashed across Wall Street's trading floors.
 
08:45 EDT 09/06
YELLEN: EASE POSSIBLE
ON LOW INFL EVEN
IF ECONOMIC GROWTH
ON TRACK
It turned out that Beckner had been waiting for a call from Janet Yellen, the newest governor of the Federal Reserve Board. She told him that it might make sense for the Fed to lower interest rates, even if the economy wasn't headed for a recession. He wrote this up, the bond market jumped three-quarters of a point and every trader in New York leaped for his phone. Beckner had struck again.
Now, as it happens, a few months earlier, I'd also interviewed Janet Yellen. Needless to say, our little talk had no effect on the market. She convinced me in her direct, charming, honest way that she possessed no inside information of obvious value. She studies the same economic data as Wall Street analysts, she said, and her ability to influence Fed policy is negligible. If she were permitted to speculate in the bond market from her office at the Fed, she added, she would probably lose money. In other words, if she kept her views to herself they would be worthless. But when she offers these same views to Beckner, who then beams them onto every trading desk on Wall Street, thousands of people in the market believe that they are worth betting on. That is what is so marvelous about the Beckner Effect.
 I WAS DOING THIS kind of reporting for years before anyone took notice of me," Beckner complained a few days later, as he pushed a particularly adamantine piece of rockfish to the side of his plate in Washington's Occidental Grill. "I don't set out to move markets, and I hope you make that clear." He makes a pair of very strong first impressions. The first is of a Southern yeoman in his mid-40's: Duke degree, khaki suit pressed like an Army uniform, cropped black hair, fit but not overly so. The second is of a man who wants badly to be left alone. Irate Wall Street traders call to scream at him for the money they lost because of some article he has written; he takes no obvious pleasure in this. He remains alienated from his powers, a reluctant Prospero.
There is the feeling about Beckner that he is imprisoned in his role by forces greater than himself. By his own admission, he is not the Voice of Greenspan; he merely chats with Fed governors and staff members whom he has come to know and reports what they say. In the old days, when the bond market was small and sleepy, this job was straightforward; now it is not. The great bond market explosion of the last 15 years, caused by the new American delight in borrowing money, has created, incidentally, a casino filled with people looking for a reason to speculate. At the moment, Beckner is the reason; as a result, he must watch his every semicolon lest some semiliterate bond trader misinterpret his copy and collapse the world economy.
Worse, he cannot escape his condition. No matter what he writes these days, people on Wall Street assign magical properties to his words. It no longer matters whether those words live up to the expectations they create. It no longer matters, for example, whether Janet Yellen's views indicate new Fed policies. She herself illustrated this point nicely, a week after she spoke with Beckner, when she told The Wall Street Journal that she was "anticipating a period of moderate growth at sustainable levels." The Journal article concluded "that doesn't suggest an overwhelming need to lower short-term interest rates."
Actually, we have arrived at a point where it doesn't even matter if any bond traders believe that Yellen's views are intrinsically valuable. All that matters is that a sufficient number of them believe that others think they have value, after Beckner writes them up. They will then buy bonds because they expect others will buy bonds. That is the first irony of the Beckner Effect -- the market believes itself to be at its mercy but it is the market that has created it. The second irony is that the Beckner Effect has no real cause.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MARKET NEWS SERVICE; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARKET NEWS SERVICE; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA BONDS (91%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); WRITERS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EPILEPSY (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); 

PERSON: BECKNER, ALAN; LEWIS, MICHAEL ALAN GREENSPAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



4 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2034 words

HEADLINE: HOME IMPROVEMENT

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN 

 BODY:
ALL those television shows and books and magazines make it look so easy: you, too, can re-floor the kitchen, hang a door, drill out those soffit vents, Sheetrock the new den, build an addition to the doghouse.
But the part they leave out is not how hard it is to get the job done -- not too hard, as it turns out. What you don't find out until it's too late is how hard it is to stop once you get started. 
 The United States is quickly becoming a nation of amateur carpenters, plumbers, roofers and electricians. Last year, Americans spent $87.7 billion to do it themselves, according to the Home Improvement Research Institute, a hardware industry trade group. That figure reflects a 73 percent increase over the last decade, and a more than threefold increase since 1977.
Whether stalking the cavernous aisles of the 102,000-square-foot Home Depot in Secaucus -- which after only one year in business is eighth in volume among the chain's 393 stores -- or rummaging through boxes of antique shutter hinges at an old-time hardware emporium like Finkel's in Lambertville, homeowners here are fixing up in record numbers.
The trend cuts across demographic and economic lines. For members of The Generation That Will Not Live as Well as Its Parents, doing it yourself is a matter of necessity, the affordable alternative to hiring a contractor or buying a newer, bigger house in better shape.
And playing Mr. Fix-It is no longer the exclusive domain of the beefy guy with a tool belt. The hand that wields the hammer is increasingly likely to belong to a woman, or to a first-timer who still doesn't know a mullion from a monkey wrench.
Home improvement seems to have become this decade's secular religion, much as fitness was in the 1980's. Both offer ways for the alienated worker to rediscover the joys of sweat and toil and production, all in the name of self-empowerment.
It's a positive feedback loop of consumer frenzy: shop for tools and materials, fix up, shop some more and fix up some more.
After all, there's no point letting a tool go to waste; better to invent projects to give them something to do. Have a table saw from the time you decided to build the kids' bunk bed? Why not use it to whip up some shelves? Why let half a bucket of perfectly good tile grout go to waste?
Not that coming up with ideas for projects requires much effort. As anyone who has bought a house or condo knows, there is always something that needs to be fixed or replaced, something that cries out to be upgraded. And with more people working and playing at home more often, the reasons to modify should continue to grow.
Here are the owners of three houses -- two encountered recently at a highway hardware palace, one through deeper connections -- who are hard at work on the lifelong project of home improvement.
 
The Walls Come Down
 
RECENT PROJECTS
* Tore out all walls and ceilings
* Replaced kitchen sink faucet
* Stripped banister
* Pulled thousands of nails out of studs
 
IN THEIR TOOLBOX
16-ounce claw
hammer, broom,
dustpan,
wrenches,
scrapers.
In June, when Jon and Janelle Fantell closed on a 75-year-old, two-story colonial on a quiet street in Colonia, they figured they'd take down the paneling, rip up the carpets, paint the walls and move right in. The last Sunday of the summer, however, found Mr. Fantell at the Home Depot in Woodbridge, buying yet another 10-pack of disposable dust masks. For their first-ever do-it-yourself project, the couple are tearing apart their new home.
The Fantells' demolition spree began when they discovered there was no insulation in the perimeter walls. They decided to knock down the plaster-and-lath walls and insulate. While they had the walls down, they figured they'd bring the wiring up to code with the help of a friend who is an electrician.
Then they decided to rewire the walls between the rooms, too.
Then a friend who came to look at the house had some reservations about the ceiling.
"He took one look at the paneling and said, 'That ceiling's got to go,' " Mr. Fantell said. "In half an hour we had ripped the whole thing down."
Two months later, the Fantells and Mrs. Fantell's 16-year-old godson, armed only with claw hammers, have banged down and pried off several thousand square feet of plaster-and-lath walls and ceilings and hauled hundreds of shopping bags of debris out to the trash. Mr. Fantell, a 34-year-old accountant who had never attempted any project more ambitious than assembling a bookcase from a kit until this summer, is still a little amazed at the way the project has taken on a life of its own.
"Every time I think it's time to stop there's a voice that says, you've gone this far; do it."
With that, he prepared to take apart the last remaining room, a former kitchen that will be his office.
After attempting to pry off the baseboard cover, hitting himself in the temple with a crowbar, borrowing a hacksaw from the neighbor, cutting through nailstaping plastic over the radiator fins, Mr. Fantell was ready. He and Mrs. Fantell's godson, Eric Curcio, slipped on their dust masks and began pounding.
Soon the hollow thud of exploding plaster gave way to the satisfying crunch of the lath breaking underneath. In 20 minutes, the 15-foot wall was reduced to a heap of dusty rubble.
Mr. Fantell, a quiet, reflective man who studies martial arts, has a theory about the addictive appeal of fixing up a house. "Everything today moves at a very quick pace, and people feel they're losing control of their lives" he said. "When you get down to it, I think doing home improvement is a microcosmic way of taking control. You see immediate feedback, and you get immediate gratification."
But if Mr. Fantell is the house philosopher, his wife is the visionary. She took one look at the dingy, dog-stained carpets and depressing paneling and saw a dream house underneath.
"This house has charm," she said. "I love the big porch, the wide, curved staircase as soon as you walk in the door, the large room sizes, the high ceilings."
She said her dreams of a pale, pale lavender living room, a somewhere-between-white-and-seafoam dining room and ornate woodwork on the big old porch have kept her going through a summer of heavy manual labor.
"Basically," she said, "at the end of the day, you take a shower, blow your nose 50 times, sleep for a little while and do it over again."
 
Learning by Doing
 
RECENT PROJECTS
* Exposed two brick fireplaces
* Spackled and painted
* Took up kitchen floor with a crowbar
* Stripped kitchen cabinet
* Tiled a contertop
* Redesigned kitchen
* Wired six phone lines
* installed indoor shutters
 
IN HER TOOLBOX
Jig saw, electric
screwdriver,
professional
paintbrushes,
hammers,
pliers, scrapers, sanders.
In the flooring aisle of the Home Depot in Secaucus, Holly Krupp is having a friendly disagreement with Clyde the tile guy. She has just spent the morning covering a new counter in the kitchen of her Hoboken brownstone condo with glossy, snowy white ceramic tile, and now Clyde, her old friend, is trying to tell her she goofed.
"For a kitchen, you should have used matte tile," he tells her. "You put a glass of water on that and it'll slide across the counter."
Ms. Krupp has a lot of faith in Clyde's judgment, but not this time. She shoots him a look and returns her attention to the other tile guy, who is custom-cutting the three tiles that require double cuts to fit around the corners of the cabinet with the beautiful glass-paneled doors -- panels she discovered by scratching off seven layers of paint after friends told her to throw it out.
Ms. Krupp, a 33-year-old saleswoman to the pharmaceutical industry, has only been tiling counters for a few hours, but she knows what she likes. And in any case, she's not afraid to make mistakes.
"I didn't even know how to use the tile cutter I bought," she said. "After I made the cuts, I was trying to break the tiles with my hands before I figured out you have to press down on the handle. It's a little scary, but if you screw it up, you screw it up. The worst thing that can happen is that your friends come over and say, 'What did you do to your countertop?' "
What she did was cleanly tile a many-angled, nine-sided counter in less than half a day, not counting the trip to Home Depot.
In the two years since she bought her condo, Ms. Krupp, who learned to tinker growing up in a family of mechanics and antique dealers, has also spackled and painted the whole place, scraped and regrouted the bathroom floors and walls, retiled the bath, wired all six phone lines for her home office, and liberated a fireplace from behind a thick prison of plaster and brick -- another project her contractor friend told her to forget about.
"When I took the first brick out where it had been bricked over, all this soot fell out onto the floor, and it kept coming and coming," she said. "It was like a black volcano."
One project always leads to another. Turning the kitchen counter into a tiled eating nook meant she had to move a little silverware chest. To get the chest under the cabinets on the other side of the kitchen, she had to saw off the molding. So she bought a jigsaw and did the job in a minute. Now she plans to use the jigsaw to cut a chair rail for her bedroom.
Sadly, though, she will be moving out soon -- she and her boyfriend are planning to get married. "But I'll never sell this place," she said. "I'll always keep it as an investment. It's got a lot of my heart in it."
 
Buried Treasure
 
RECENT PROJECTS
* Repaired roof and cornices
* Rebuilt deck
* Built window casings
* Insulated attic
* Installed kitchen cabinets
* Scraped, primed, and painted exterior
* Removed concrete apron
* Designed and built garden
 
IN THEIR TOOLBOX
Planes, chisels, router,
cabinet scraper, mill
file, jackhammer
(rented), miter saw,
dovetail saw, hole saw, table saw, hot gun, drill, electric nail driver, reciprocating saw, power sander, doweling jig.
For their 10th anniversary, my brother Michael bought his wife a router. Practical as it may seem, the gift was an exceedingly sentimental one, a measure of the degree of their devotion to the boxy, 130-year-old handyperson's special along the Delaware that they have spent most of the past five years fixing up.
At the start, most of the work had to be done on the outside -- otherwise, pretty soon there wouldn't have been an inside. "The roofs were all falling apart," Mr. Newman recalled. "All kinds of structural members were rotten. The windows were a disaster. Two back walls had no siding, just tar paper over rotting chipboard. Nobody had maintained it for like 50 years."
The two classical guitarists, both now 37, went to work. Come tar-blistering heat, shattering cold and countless broken nails, assisted only by our younger brother, they shingled, hammered, planed, scraped, flashed, drilled and painted.
The house looks impressive now, done up in colors with old-house-catalog names like Bracken House Biscuit and Dusty Sage, even though it is unmistakably still a work in progress. Vines creep over the stack of spare windows donated by a neighbor. Leftover bricks from a recent patio project -- Laura Oltman now knows how to operate a 65-pound jackhammer -- are piled up nearby. "We've accepted the permanence of having a ratty house," she said cheerfully.
Recently, Mr. Newman and Ms. Oltman have been able to focus more attention on the interior. Ms. Oltman, who now does most of the work, used her router to mill the beads on the historically accurate window and door casings in the kitchen. The job, like many others, was made considerably more difficult by the settled old house's uneven angles, archaic building materials and a previous owner's attempts at restoration. "He did a lot of remuddling, as opposed to remodeling," Ms. Oltman said.
This year, the couple are celebrating their fifth anniversary in the house by scraping and touching up their four-year-old exterior paint job. It gives them a sense of history. They can't imagine ever moving out, though they think the house, newly fortified, might outlive them.

GRAPHIC: Photos: IN THE KITCHEN Holly Krupp taught herself to use a tile cutter, then designed a nine-sided counter for her Hoboken condominium.; RESTORATION Laura Oltman and Michael Newman scrape and sand their house in Carpentersville.; FIRST PROJECT Jon and Janelle Fantell of Colonia, left, had never attempted a major project before they started demolishing interior walls. (Pg. 1); For a first project, Jon and Janelle Fantell started knocking down interior walls. They aren't finished yet. Michael Newman and Laura Oltman are restoring from the outside in. Holly Krupp has redesigned her kitchen. (Pg. 12) (Lenore Victoria Davis (left) and Julio A. Ibarra Jr. for The New York Times)
 
Chart describing spending on home improvement projects done by household members 1987 thru 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5231 PAINT, GLASS, & WALLPAPER STORES (92%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (56%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (56%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (56%); HOME IMPROVEMENT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOME DEPOT INC HOME IMPROVEMENT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SECAUCUS (NJ); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOME REPAIRS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HARDWARE HOME CENTERS (90%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); HARDWARE STORES (74%); TRENDS (74%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); RELIGION (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (54%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, ANDY JANELLE FANTELL (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



5 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY;
Signed and Sealed. And Hold the Mustard.

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
CURBSIDE in front of the Essex County Hall of Records in Newark, two customers waited idly under the striped canvas awning at the hot dog truck. Besides hot dogs, the menu offered coffee, soda, cigarettes, meatball and sausage sandwiches, western omelets, egg with Taylor Pork Roll and, in big letters, NOTARY PUBLIC .
Notary public? 
 Sam Kanan, the proprietor, pushed a pile of onions to the edge of the grill with his spatula. "Today you got to do everything to make a living," he explained.
"People used to come up with the papers and ask, where do I get the notary?" he went on. "We always sent them down to the bank, a pretty good walk." He tapped his temple with a finger. "Then I think, O.K., Sam, how come you're not doing that here with the hot dogs?"
So he and his helper, John Ali, working out of an old blue Chevy panel hot dog truck with two ventilators twirling like toy tops on the roof, obtained their certifications and seals, and took on a sideline as notaries.
Do not, incidentally, ask them how business is.
 "Terrible!" cried Mr. Kanan, who immigrated here from Jerusalem.
He dug into a cardboard box above the freezer and pulled out a recent, but very creased, clipping -- an outraged letter to the editor in The Star-Ledger. The writer was a West Orange woman, fuming that when she went to the Hall of Records recently for a business application, a clerk "instructed me to look for the hot dog truck parked outside of the building to obtain a notary seal." There, she wrote, "the man with the notary seal was quite adept at simultaneously mincing onions and witnessing signatures, and the papers were taken care of with nary a dab of mustard to besmirch them."
Sarcasm aside, Mr. Kanan had no problem with that part. He never gets mustard on your papers. What caused trouble was that the letter writer complained about having to wait in a "long line" behind people ordering hot dogs to get her papers notarized.
The hot dog business is extremely competitive. "Everybody sees 'long lines for the hot dogs'!" Mr. Kanan wailed.
" 'Long lines' in the paper!" Mr. Ali said.
"You know what happened?" Mr. Kanan said. "The next day, a new hot dog truck, he reads 'long lines,' he comes in across the street!" Mr. Kanan turned to glare at the competitor's truck. He also scowled down the block at another hot dog man who showed up with a pushcart.
"You see long lines now?" Mr. Kanan demanded.
Mr. Kanan bought the truck 10 years ago. On a good week, he said, it clears $300. (The men charge $1 to $1.25 a page to notarize documents.) Weekdays, they arrive at 6 A.M. and stay till after 4. Mr. Kanan works nights as a security guard. Some weekends, he drives a cab.
Mr. Kanan and Mr. Ali, who both live in Jersey City, arrived in America with the great wave of legal immigration that started in 1965, when a new Federal law opened the gates to millions of non-Europeans.
"First, I wash dishes six days a week," Mr. Kanan recalled. "Twelve hours a day. The pay for a week was $85. But step by step, I saved a few bucks."
As he got on his feet, Mr. Kanan sponsored relatives, including his cousin Mr. Ali.
"I found a job for him in a Greek diner. Hoboken," Mr. Kanan said.
Laughing, Mr. Ali recalled, "I thought I was going to come to America, work hard and get rich in one month."
Nobody got rich. In old urban areas that no longer have the good industrial jobs that gave previous generations of immigrants a leg up into the middle class, you were lucky just to stay off welfare. For immigrants in a post-industrial service economy, there are not many Horatio Alger stories.
"You work for enough money to pay the bills," said Mr. Kanan.
"College someday for the kids," added Mr. Ali.
And somewhere along the line, the American Dream acquired a tinge of irony for the working stiffs.
"One day, maybe next year, we're going to rip out the roof of the truck, put in second floor for a lawyer's office," Mr. Kanan joked. "Raise the rent on a lawyer," Mr. Ali suggested gleefully. "Maybe add an office for selling Lotto."
Mr. Kanan had a better idea. "No! We make a motor vehicles office up there."
But the chatter ended abruptly when a customer appeared at the window. The lunch crowd was on its way.
"Could I have a sausage, no sauce?" the young woman asked.
Mr. Kanan dashed for the grill. "Yes!" he said. "Right away! Pepsi?"

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Robert Zimmerman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: NOTARIES PUBLIC NOTARIES (91%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (89%); WRITERS (70%); 

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE SAM KANAN (96%); JOHN ALI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



6 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14; Column 6; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: WHO WILL FACE THE MUSIC?

 BODY:
In response to Elizabeth Kolbert's article "Who Will Face the Music?" (Aug. 27), I would like to offer another take on Social Security and generational shifting.
I think the issue of generational shift is not well understood. Obviously even the whiny Generation X will inherit a gross domestic product that is considerably larger than the one their parents inherited. The pie may not be growing as fast as it did in the 50's and 60's, but it is still growing pretty substantially. The people who make the contributions, sacrifices, investments, inventions, etc. (and suffer the layoffs) that contribute to the bigger pie are essentially laying a claim to it when they retire. If they work 45 years, and the pie is 150 percent of what it was when they started, are they entitled to a piece of the upside? 
 After all, Social Security doesn't work like a piggy bank. We get paid back out of the real economy that exists when we collect it. And when people spend their Social Security money, they create jobs and demand. It's no accident that health care is one of the real growth areas for working-class jobs in the United States.
It is also not a very good point (though often made) that the regressiveness of Social Security taxes is offset by the fact that Social Security provides a larger share of the income of average people than of rich people. That is merely a way of stating that the retired wealthy have a lot more income. The $800 or so per month that Social Security recipients get is not a lot of money. Would it be better if Generation X'ers inherited a large group of indigent elderly? Would that be less of a burden?
Clearly, it would be a plus if all of us saved and invested more. The pie would grow faster. It would be easier to pay us off when we retire. But that is a lot to ask of average Americans, whose income and wealth are stagnant. People do what they must to maintain their standard of living: when the country is in a great growth phase, they save a lot; when the country is in a retrenchment phase, they consume a larger percentage of their income.
 
RICHARD C. LEONE
New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: SAVE-A-LOT LTD (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US) SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); GENERATION X (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); AGING (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); JOB CREATION (66%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, ELIZABETH ELIZABETH KOLBERT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



7 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2438 words

HEADLINE: Millionaires By the Dozen

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn.

 BODY:
A FEW years back, Jonathan Yarmis, a personal computer expert, was wooed by the Microsoft Corporation. While Mr. Yarmis was flattered by the overture, he decided not to join Microsoft, the Redmond, Wash., software giant.
"If I went out there, I figured I'd just be another Microsoft millionaire," Mr. Yarmis recalled. "But here, you have real influence. Individually, your views and opinions have a real impact on the computer industry." 
 Mr. Yarmis, after all, is now a vice president of the Gartner Group Inc. Who?
Gartner will probably never be mentioned in the same breath as such marquee brand names of computing as Microsoft, Intel, I.B.M. and Apple. Nonetheless, Gartner, a specialty publisher based here, is a behind-the-scenes power to be reckoned with, even by those industry giants.
Gartner has become the key adviser to corporate America as it wrestles with the chaotic world of information technology. The personal computer revolution and the spread of computer networks, like the Internet, have dispersed and accelerated the pace of technology's advance in the workplace. Years ago, there were a comparative handful of computer-product choices for corporate shoppers to make; now there are thousands. And new versions of products come out every few months instead of several years apart.
To sort through the blizzard of offerings and hype from the computer industry, companies look outside for help and advice. Most often, they turn to Gartner. And so influential are its views about what equipment, software and services to buy -- and to avoid -- that Gartner can help make or break a product. Even Microsoft's eagerly awaited Windows 95 operating system felt Gartner's impact, with corporate sales affected by its early recommendation that most companies wait six to nine months before buying, to allow bugs to be fixed.
Such power has made Gartner envied, and feared. And as its reach expands in a bid for further growth, questions have been raised about whether Gartner's research can stay independent when the company is increasingly analyzing products of customers it is also advising.
While it has rivals, Gartner, by all accounts, is unmatched in the scope of its research, covering everything from the World Wide Web to mainframe disk drives. Its recommendations are shrewdly packaged, typically in punchy two-page notes, sent by E-mail, fax or mail.
Its analysts are encouraged to be provocative and opinionated. And they brag that they are not journalists; no wishy-washy balancing of "on the one hand, on the other hand" for them. For this, and ready access to the analyst-authors, companies pay lavishly, $19,000 a year for each of Gartner's 47 services, though companies taking several services receive discounts. Roughly 600 companies now pay Gartner more than $100,000 each a year.
So far, the Gartner formula has proved successful -- and quite lucrative in the last few years. So lucrative, in fact, that Gideon I. Gartner, who founded the company in 1979 and then walked away at the end of 1990 with an estimated $24 million in total gains, is getting back into the business to challenge the company that bears his name. The battle promises to be an interesting one, given Mr. Gartner's track record and his ability to attract deep-pocketed investors.
For now, though, the company's good fortune has meant sudden affluence for Gartner staff members like Mr. Yarmis. He passed up his chance to be a "Microsoft millionaire" -- one of the many Microsoft employees who have grown wealthy on the runup in the company's stock price -- but the 40-year-old Mr. Yarmis is assuredly a "Gartner millionaire," thanks to his Gartner share options and the surge in that stock. In fact, since Gartner went public two years ago, its share price, including stock splits, has jumped fivefold -- a better performance than Microsoft's during that period.
Manuel Fernandez, the president and chief executive of Gartner, says there are about 150 Gartner millionaires among the company's rapidly growing work force of over 1,000. And he is hoping to see more. Today, 450 employees receive stock options, including all of its 215-member corps of analysts. Of the company's $1.4 billion value on the stock market, about 15 percent is held by management. Indeed, in terms of wealth created for its workers, Gartner may well be the richest publishing house in the world -- a "mini-Microsoft" in its field, though that business, to be sure, is a hybrid niche of publishing.
"One of the things I'm most proud of is that by being successful we've been able to make so many of our people rich," said Mr. Fernandez, 49, who has a gain on his shares of more than $30 million.
Many of the Gartner workers have profited so handsomely in part because of the tumultuous ownership history of the company. Seven years after Mr. Gartner founded it, the company went public -- for the first time -- in 1986. Two years later, Saatchi & Saatchi P.L.C. acquired Gartner in the London advertising agency's ill-starred plan to become a diversified professional services company. Soon after, with losses mounting, Saatchi was forced to sell its nonadvertising businesses.
In late 1990, Saatchi sold Gartner to a leveraged buyout group led by Gartner management, the business publisher Dun & Bradstreet and the venture capital arm of Bain & Company, a management consulting firm. It is mostly those Gartner employees who were with the company by then, or joined shortly after, who are sitting on the biggest gains from their low-cost options -- some granted for as little as 3 cents a share.
Gartner went public for the second time in October 1993, with the Dun & Bradstreet Corporation holding onto a 50 percent stake. Since then, the public shareholders in Gartner have prospered as well, given the fivefold rise in the share price, to $32.75 at Friday's close.
THE runup in Gartner stock reflects the company's rapid growth. In its fiscal year ended yesterday, analysts' estimates are that Gartner's net income will rise more than 60 percent, to $24.5 million, on revenues of $225 million, up 33 percent. And Gartner's stock price-to-earnings ratio of 58 times -- compared with an average for the Standard & Poor's 500 of 17 -- reflects Wall Street's expectation that the company's ascent will continue apace.
"Gartner has a lot of untapped market potential and not a lot of competition," said Eric Philo, an analyst for Goldman Sachs & Company.
Indeed, Gartner has an aggressive growth strategy. The company recently started a computer on-line service, called @vantage, distributed initially over AT&T's Interchange network. But there are plans for perhaps adding another on-line service, like the Microsoft Network, and eventually using the Internet. The on-line offering is a crucial step in Gartner's goal to add more subscribers in large companies and attract new customers in small companies.
Inside Gartner, the growth targets have been set at 25 to 30 percent annually over the next five years. If successful, that would give Gartner annual sales nearing $1 billion by 2000 or so.
"To grow at that rate, we definitely have to perform well, but the underlying demand is there," Mr. Fernandez said. "We're riding the wave of rapid change, as more people within companies have to use and really understand information technology to manage their businesses and survive in today's economy."
But Gartner faces daunting challenges in trying to achieve its goal. There are the internal problems of managing rapid growth in a professional organization, like Gartner, without watering down the quality of the firm's people, research and reputation. Yet there are also coming assaults on its franchise from rivals.
Today, Gartner has no genuine peer. Its competition comes mainly from a group of smaller, private firms, including META Group Inc., Forrester Research Inc. and the Yankee Group. Other well-known technology publishing firms, notably Dataquest and the International Data Corporation, are primarily market researchers that advise computer suppliers instead of assessing products and technology for users.
The largest and fastest-growing of Gartner's rivals, analysts estimate, is probably META, at roughly $30 million a year in revenues. Founded in 1989 by two ex-Gartner staffers, META is also the most direct competitor to Gartner. Forrester offers technology research for mainly top-level corporate executives, while Yankee tends to compete with Gartner only in certain specialties, like telecommunications.
But things are expected to change. The stepped-up competition will likely come from META, which is investing heavily to challenge Gartner, and from a new rival, Gideon Gartner.
When Saatchi bought the company in 1988, Mr. Gartner agreed to stay on through the end of 1990. By then, he was independently wealthy, and he insists his plan had always been to retire early to Aspen, Colo., where he has a home. A philanthropist and an accomplished amateur pianist and French horn player, he figured he had plenty of other interests and didn't need business anymore.
But he admits he changed his mind after a few years. Along with a few ex-Gartner colleagues and a group of investors, Mr. Gartner, now 60, has purchased BIS Strategic Decisions, a small market research firm. Mr. Gartner says BIS, based in Norwell, Mass., gives him a modest going business, but is just a small first step toward taking on his old company.
Mr. Gartner's contractual agreement not to compete with the Gartner Group expired last summer. BIS has already been folded into his new company, Giga Information Group Inc. (The name was chosen, he says, for its techie connotations, as in "gigabyte," a measure of computer memory; but "Giga" is also formed by the first two letters of the founder's first and last names.) Giga, Mr. Gartner explains, will not really be bringing its new service into the corporate market until 1996, so he is saying little about his strategy for fear of tipping his hand to competitors.
But Mr. Gartner did say he plans for Giga to be a $500 million-a-year business within five years, passing META as the No. 2 firm in the field, and becoming "a strong competitor to Gartner."
"I'm not in it to do a small-time operation," Mr. Gartner said.
Marc Butlein, META's chairman, takes issue with Mr. Gartner's assessment. He, not his one-time boss, plans to be the Gartner Group's strongest rival. Mr. Butlein calls Gartner a "superb publisher," but he believes that it has slipped on the follow-up service -- typically one-to-one phone calls by a client to an analyst.
Some corporate customers echo that theme. Robert Gilchrist, the chief information officer for Corning Inc., a specialty glass and optical fiber maker, says he has recently shifted more of its technology-assessment spending from Gartner to META. "For a long time, Gartner was the only one," Mr. Gilchrist explained. "We didn't seem to matter much to Gartner, but we do seem to matter to META."
Still, Gartner's growth both in revenues and in number of corporate accounts, more than doubling in the last four years to 4,980 companies with 63,000 individual recipients of its services, suggests that dissatisfaction with Gartner is not widespread.
Jack Cooper, vice president of information management at the Bristol Myers Squibb Company, is a satisfied customer, subscribing to several Gartner services. "Gartner plays an important role, given all the product introductions and the rate of obsolescence in technology," he said. "And no one has Gartner's depth of research."
Indeed, the complaint sometimes heard from computer hardware and software suppliers is not that Gartner's grip on the market is slipping but that it is too powerful. Some suppliers contend that in their penchant for strong opinions, Gartner analysts can be one-sided and unfair. Last June, Computer Associates International Inc., a large software company, decided to no longer give briefings to Gartner analysts, after a series of negative Gartner reports.
"Gartner just seemed to have some deep-seated bias against us," said Sanjay Kumar, president of Computer Associates. "We think that Gartner is able to do significant damage to our company by slamming our products."
YET most suppliers would not dare shun Gartner because it is such a crucial ingredient in how corporate buying decisions are made.
"Gartner takes positions that you may or may not agree with," said Bob McDowell, vice president of Microsoft's marketing to large companies. "But there's room for honest disagreement. And there's no question that Gartner is a very respected adviser to our customers."
The Gartner research is what corporate America respects most. It is churned out by the company's cadre of analyst-authors, mostly in their late 30's and 40's, who typically come to Gartner after a decade or so of industry experience. Once at Gartner, they go through a one-week boot camp to be schooled in the company's research methodology and culture. They are told to produce "hard-hitting, actionable advice." The pace is quick; projects last from a few hours to a few days. They are coached in public speaking and presentation. "Being an industry guru," one Gartner executive said, "is partly show business."
At Gartner meetings, they speak of "probabilities," "business drivers," "exit strategies" and "scenarios." Confessions of ignorance or indecision are not welcomed.
Scott Winkler, a 38-year-old vice president who specializes in computer operating systems, joined Gartner in 1993, after years at I.B.M. and then Sequent Computer, which makes large commercial computers. He came to Gartner, he says, to be "visible in the industry and become a guru." These days, he works 60-hour weeks, speaking at conferences, meeting with clients and writing research reports -- "mostly on evenings and weekends," he says. Last year, he logged 120,000 miles, traveling as far as Australia and Brazil.
"It's a worldwide job, and you often have to do it face to face," Mr. Winkler said. "For clients, the analyst contact, over the phone or in person, is certainly as valuable as the published material. For us, those contacts are a crucial part of our research."
Mr. Fernandez agrees, and he insists Gartner's network of contacts with corporate users will make the company difficult to challenge.
"The franchise here is the user community that we are part of," he said. "That's the real barrier to entry. Somebody else can throw money at this business, but they cannot duplicate that network of contacts, certainly not easily and certainly not anytime soon."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Founder Gideon I. Gartner will compete against his namesake. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times); Manuel Fernandez, Gartner's chief executive, says there are 150 millionaires in the company. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 1); A page from Gartner's site on the World Wide Web promotes the company's advice, which has come to have a large influence on the information industry. (pg. 13)
 
Graphs: "On the Rise" shows weekly closes of Gartner Group stock since its initial public offering in Oct. 1993 and Profits, losses and revenue for Gartner Group from 1992 to a projected 1997. (Source: Company reports, Datastream, Goldman Sachs)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); IT (NYSE) (85%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (85%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: GARTNER GROUP INC MICROSOFT CORP (94%); GARTNER INC (85%); INTEL CORP (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GARTNER GROUP INC NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS; MILLIONAIRES AND BILLIONAIRES WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); STOCK OPTIONS (74%); WRITERS (74%); 

PERSON: GARTNER, GIDEON; FERNANDEZ, MANUEL; LOHR, STEVE ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



8 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Prepared to Pack Up, Investors Await Earnings

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
THE common wisdom is that today's investors are bulls looking for stock prices to continue their seemingly inexorable climb or bears preparing for a big correction any minute. The apparently rare animal in the current Wall Street environment is the deer -- grazing but nervous and ready to bolt at the slightest sign of danger.
"When the market is ready to get spooked, it's going to happen," said Kenneth Fisher, a fund manager based in La Honda, Calif. "But I don't think it's ready. Most people seem to be looking for clues about when to rotate to new sectors of the market rather than when to get out." 
 One development that could change all that, though, would be a heavy shower of disappointments in the third quarter earnings figures that soon will be pouring across the financial wires. The most damaging situation would probably be a combination of disappointments from bellwether stocks in the high-flying technology sector and below-expectations profits from blue chip stocks in those other sectors where many investors instinctively turn when the markets run into trouble.
"If investors saw a weakness in a company like Philip Morris on the same day Intel came in below estimate, that would definitely put some pressure on the market," said Ben Zacks, executive vice president at Zacks Investment Service, a Chicago-based firm that tracks Wall Street analysts' estimates. "But you'd need quite a few results like that within a couple days to really affect the psychology."
The technology sector is the most frequently mentioned because its growth has led the market upward and there are still high expectations for it. Intel, Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, I.B.M. and Micron are all among the 10 stocks that led the rise this year of the S.& P. index of 500 stocks.
The plunge of Advanced Micro Devices, from $33.25 on Sept. 22 to Friday's close of $29.125, after it warned that third quarter earnings won't meet Wall Street's projections, showed how quickly investors will jump ship. But analysts say it would take negative surprises from leaders like Intel, Texas Instruments and I.B.M. to create more than a day or two of consternation. In any other quarter Microsoft might be added to that list, but the heavily promoted debut of Windows 95 has made this quarter's results a poor indicator of pricing and demand for software in general.
A major sector selloff, however, could be ignited by poor results from several secondary high-tech players even if the leaders come through well, according to David Schulman, managing director of investment strategy at Salomon Brothers. "People might assume there is a general weakness that will hit the bellwethers in the next quarter," Mr. Schulman said.
Disappointments in the high tech sector will not really scare Wall Street, though, unless they are coupled with troubles in areas normally seen as relatively safe in a downturn. Should the tech sector falter, the ability of companies like Philip Morris, Kellogg, Anheuser-Busch, Merck, Abbott Laboratories and the larger utilities to meet expectations would become more critical. "People would look at companies like Merck and say, 'If we can't count on the stable earners, who can we count on?' " said Melissa R. Brown, director of quantitative research at Prudential Securities.
Some companies are seen as dual-purpose barometers. Kellogg, for instance, not only represents stable if slow growth but also reflects the impact of currency changes because so much of its business is overseas. Although Kellogg's earnings will be among those reported toward the end of the cycle, it could influence market sentiment because a disappointment would likely include a stronger-than-projected impact of the strengthening dollar (which makes overseas profits look smaller).
"It could be seen as a red flag for other companies likely to be affected by a stronger dollar," said Raymond Urban, chief investment strategist for Duff & Phelps in Chicago.
After high tech, the two sectors that have portfolio managers most twitchy at the moment are probably financial services and commodities. The long economic expansion has Wall Street watching warily for earnings shortfalls that might show that banks have become overzealous lenders or that financial service firms are piling up bad credit, according to E. Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Company. American Express and BankAmerica would be among the bellwethers, he said.
On the commodity front, Alcoa, International Paper and Phelps Dodge are among those coming in for scrutiny. Safian Investment Research in White Plains, figures that machinery companies that ride the economic cycle, like Caterpillar, are ready for a downturn. But cyclical commodity producers like Alcoa should still be reporting relatively strong earnings. If Alcoa were to report a significant shortfall of the sort Caterpillar warned of recently, it would be much more disturbing, according to Kurt Walter, a Safian analyst.
One thing that's foolish, analysts say, is to project what might happen over all this quarter from the advance warnings issued by Caterpillar and other companies that will come in below expectations. "There were a lot of preannouncements in the second quarter but it turned out well over all," said Ms. Brown of Oppenheimer. "We have another week or so of them to go now and then it's on to the real thing."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "With Bated Breath" shows a look at what some analysts are predicting and how the companies performed a year ago. (Source: Zacks Investment Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); AMD (NYSE) (53%); AMD (FRA) (53%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); TXN (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (52%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (58%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (83%); ZACKS INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (54%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (52%); CHICAGO BULLS (84%); CHICAGO BEARS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BULLS (84%); CHICAGO BEARS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (63%); MAMMALS (58%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J KENNETH FISHER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



9 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
As Mortgage Rates Drop, Choices Rise

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO 

 BODY:
THE menu of mortgage options is becoming a buffet, with nearly every variation conceivable.
While mortgage rates are bouncing around near historic lows, a few home buyers are forgoing the promise of a low fixed-rate loan for 15 or 30 years. This group of borrowers, albeit a small one, is choosing adjustable-rate loans -- often with a twist. 
 The standard adjustable loan carries a rate that adjusts each year. Some others, sometimes called hybrids, carry a fixed rate for 3, 5, 7 or 10 years and then adjust each year. But to convince finicky borrowers that an adjustable-rate loan could be good for them, lenders are promoting a type that adjusts every three years or five years, rather than annually, after the initial period.
"These loans have been around for a while," said Bruce R. Lublin, a mortgage banker with the Homerica Mortgage Corporation, which has offices in Harrison, N.Y., and Westport, Conn. "But they were overshadowed by the other kinds of A.R.M.'s. Recently, though, as buyers learn more about different mortgages, we are finding that more people are taking the 3-3's and 5-5's," which are loans that adjust every three or five years.
The monthly payment is smaller on an adjustable loan than on a fixed-rate loan, accounting for much of the adjustable loan's appeal. But psychologically, the leap is great. Home buyers worry about the havoc an adjustable loan could some day cause for their household budgets. The promise of less frequent adjustments can calm those fears.
 Generally, borrowers pay slightly higher rates for loans that adjust every three years or five years than they would for loans that adjust annually after three or five years of predictable payments.
At Homerica, the difference is 0.25 of a percentage point. Homerica is offering a loan that adjusts every three years at an initial rate of 5.5 percent with 2.75 points down, or 6.25 percent with 1.25 points down. A point is a fee paid by the borrower, generally, at closing, that is equal to 1 percent of the loan amount. If the borrower is willing to accept annual adjustments after three years, Homerica's initial rates fall to 5.25 percent and 6 percent, respectively.
At least 30 lenders across the nation offer loans that adjust every three or five years, said Keith T. Gumbinger, a vice president with HSH Associates, a mortgage research company in Butler, N.J. "They are dusting the product off, scraping the bottom of the barrel to get people to go with adjustables," he said.
Lenders prefer to make adjustable-rate loans -- except when rates are abnormally high -- because these loans entail less risk than fixed loans. If rates rise, so will a borrower's payments.
For borrowers, an often-used guideline for deciding between a fixed or adjustable loan -- unless rates are very high or very low -- is to take a loan with a rate fixed for the number of years you plan to live in the home. If you plan to stay five years, you can have five years of small payments and not worry about the annual adjustments that would follow. If you are unsure, though, you might like a loan that will adjust after five years, and not again for five more. Only about 23 percent of borrowers chose adjustable-rate mortgages in August, down from 59 percent in January, according to the Federal Housing Finance Board in Washington. Fixed-rate loans have gained appeal as rates have fallen. As of Wednesday, HSH Associates said the interest rate on the average 30-year loan was 7.91 percent, compared with 5.88 percent for a one-year adjustable-rate loan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES MORTGAGE LOANS (93%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MORTGAGE RATES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BUDGETS (77%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



10 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1970 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
How to Succeed in Nonprofits by Really Trying

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
WHEN John Whitehead was co-chairman of Goldman Sachs from 1976 to 1984, it was held up as the epitome of the well-managed Wall Street firm. It made money and it ran smoothly.
Now Mr. Whitehead is trying to bring some of those same management skills to the nonprofit world. In what he calls the third stage of his life, after Goldman Sachs and service as Deputy Secretary of State, he has presided as chairman or president over several venerable institutions, from Harvard University's Board of Overseers and the Brookings Institution, to the Trustees Council of the National Gallery of Art and the Greater New York Councils/Boy Scouts of America. 
 But he is not content simply to bring his own management counsel to the boardrooms of a Rolodex of nonprofit organizations. He has a broader aim: to improve the whole art of managing nonprofit organizations. To that end, he is giving $10 million to the Harvard Business School to endow the John C. Whitehead Fund for Not-for-Profit Management.
His goal is to encourage several developments: research in nonprofit management techniques, teaching of these techniques, and more emphasis on training business school students and managers of nonprofit groups.
"I became fascinated by nonprofits," Mr. Whitehead said. "Their reach is much bigger than I realized. One out of every 10 workers in the United States works for a nonprofit. And if you add in the volunteer time, it's even greater."
"But I came to realize that while people who run nonprofits are fully committed, they are not very good managers, and nonprofits are not very well run," Mr. Whitehead said.
Sometimes they are not on the up-and-up either, as Mr. Whitehead has learned the hard way. Earlier this year, after he had planned his gift to Harvard, he and other prominent businessmen were embarrassed to learn that they had foolishly lent their names to the New Era for Philanthropy, a charity based near Philadelphia that was essentially a giant Ponzi scheme. New Era for Philanthropy filed for bankruptcy protection in May, and it and its president, John G. Bennett Jr., have been charged with fraud.
But the more common problem, one he has seen much of since he became involved in the nonprofit world during his years at Goldman Sachs, is a lack of management expertise. That is something he can offer, although he is quick to add: "Just to show that I don't know everything, I went on the board of a regional theater that went out of business." He declines to name the theater.
He describes himself as a sucker for getting involved in nonprofit groups, and said he has a particular affinity for the ones that need help, "not just the big prestigious ones, but some of the little, weak ones." The list, he says in an embarrassed tone, is too long to enumerate, because someone might think he does not have time for so much.
But he is disciplined in his approach, spending the first hour of each day in his Park Avenue office working on business for AEA Investors Inc., a private investment company of which he is chairman. The rest of the day, sometimes starting with a 7:30 breakfast meeting and going through a late dinner, is devoted to his menagerie of nonprofit institutions.
"He does so many things, but the remarkable thing is that he does it all so effectively," said William Boardman Jr., director of university capital giving at Harvard. "His very special capacity is to focus and not to waste time, and he's very insightful."
Mr. Whitehead has given one other $10 million gift, to Haverford College, "my other first love," where he was an undergraduate, and other nonprofit groups say he has been generous.
He described his own philosophy that good citizens need to be generous in both time and money. Having had the "good fortune to make all this money," he said, "I say somewhat facetiously that by giving it back, it will come out even at the end."
When he started discussions with John H. McArthur, dean of the Harvard Business School, a couple of years ago, he discovered that several faculty members there had been talking about doing more on nonprofit management. Mr. Whitehead held out the prospect of a large gift if they could develop a productive plan.
The group did more than plan. Research has begun to build. Courses have been added (elective courses on Social Entrepreneurship and on Field Studies in Social Enterprise). Case studies are being written. An eight-day advanced management program for executives who run nonprofit groups attracted 50 participants last spring (at a subsidized price of $3,000), and another session will be held next year.
Satisfied that the commitment was there, Mr. Whitehead told the school he was ready to make the gift. Even though Mr. McArthur is stepping down today, to be succeeded as dean by Kim Clark, Mr. McArthur has promised the nonprofit initiative would remain a priority, and that he will stay involved with it.
Despite the new attention, it is unlikely that nonprofit management will ever be a main theme for the school. The M.B.A. class of 1996, for example, has only 40 students out of 807 who came out of government, education or nonprofit jobs. Even though 10 percent of the class of 1995 cited working with a nonprofit group as their career goal after graduation, the school sent only 11 students into those fields. "The financial pressures are very high," Mr. Whitehead said.
But Mr. Whitehead said he did not worry that nonprofit management would be a stepchild at the business school. He said the new course on social entrepreneurship was oversubscribed last spring, when more than 10 percent of the second year class signed up for it, instead of the 60 that had originally been set as the limit.
"Usually elective courses start small and build their reputations," Mr. Whitehead said. "But this was very successful. I was just delighted."
He spoke of the growing interest among business students, who know they are likely to serve as directors of nonprofit groups, as he and so many other business executives do now; and the growing recognition that they should know more when they do.
"I believe more of this kind of program, and more scholarship, will help," he said.
That is not to say that Mr. Whitehead sees such programs as curing all ills. He does not think that better education would have stopped the scandal involving the Foundation for New Era Philanthropy.
New Era persuaded sophisticated executives like Mr. Whitehead to funnel money they wanted to contribute to other charities through New Era, saying that it would be matched after six months. The participation of top business leaders like Mr. Whitehead helped attract other donors.
"New Era was a real tragedy," said Mr. Whitehead, who stands to lose up to $1 million in the bankruptcy. "I doubt that a program like this would have lessened the problem. If you have a dishonest guy, there is not much you can do. I hope we will all be able to put it behind us."
Although the management of nonprofit institutions is a relatively new academic specialty, Harvard is by no means the first university to turn its attention to the subject. There are now more than three dozen centers for the study of nonprofit enterprises at universities around the country, from Yale and Duke to the New School for Social Research and the University of San Francisco, and at least a dozen offer some focus on management.
In addition, there is already one other school at Harvard, the John F. Kennedy School of Government, that focuses on nonprofit enterprise, and sends about a third of its graduates into jobs in nonprofit institutions. It even offers the only course on nonprofit management at Harvard.
While the two schools talked about the possibility of a joint program, Mr. Whitehead's money was ultimately directed to the business school.
"They both have a role to play," he said. "My interest is in teaching managers business skills. The Kennedy School teaches them about the policy issues. There is a different kind of emphasis, and there is room for both."
Those connected with the business school program, the Initiative on Social Enterprise, which was established in 1993, concede that there is much to learn before there is a discipline that offers the depth and breadth of business management. They talk of the overlap between the two fields -- and the differences. And they talk about building new intellectual capital.
V. Kasturi Rangan, a business school professor who is one of the leaders of the social enterprise initiative, talked about the crossover in his own field of marketing:
"Nonprofit management offers its own challenges, but the trick is to bring the core disciplines into these challenges," he said. "We don't have Marketing 1 for toothpaste, and Marketing 2 for computers. Marketing is marketing."
He added, however, that nonprofit groups face a dual customer problem that is unique to them, because they need to concern themselves both with the clients who receive their services, and with the donors who pay for the services with their charitable contributions. The usual marketing discipline, coming out of consumers' choices that weigh benefits against costs, doesn't apply when consumers and payers are separate, he said. So a nonprofit group needs to develop special internal measures to know whether its products are appropriate.
It is analysis like this that excites Mr. Whitehead and makes him feel that his money will be well spent.
"This is fun," Mr. Whitehead said. "This is what keeps me going."
 
 
 
Growth Field In Academia
 THE nonprofit world is one of the growth fields of academe. In 15 years or so, more than three dozen centers have sprung up at universities, and more are added yearly.
Many programs are interdisciplinary, drawing on management experts, economists, historians, theologians and sociologists, but the focus of each varies. Some, like Duke University, emphasize nonprofit economics. Others, like the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, emphasize public policy. Still others, like the City University of New York, focus on issues like philanthropy.
More than half of the schools stress nonprofit management techniques, and some, like Case Western Reserve and the New School for Social Research, offer courses aimed at preparing managers for nonprofit organizations.
Many of the early programs grew out of a desire to understand this little-studied but fast-growing sector of the economy, and to raise the level of scholarship and management in the field. But what is driving the growth on campuses now is the growing interest by students in careers in nonprofit organizations.
"We get a very high proportion of students interested in social and economic change," said Julian Wolpert, a professor at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton, which is weighing the possibility of a nonprofit center. "As government has really cut back in its hiring, more and more of our students are going into nonprofits."
 
JOHN C. WHITEHEAD
 
Born Evanston, Illinois April 2, 1922
 
EDUCATION
 
Haverford College, 1943
M.B.A. with distinction, Harvard Business School, 1947
 
PROFESSIONAL LIFE
Goldman, Sachs & Co. 1947-1984
Chairman, Securities Industry Association 1972-1973
New York Stck Exchange, director, 1982-1984
Deputy Secretary of State 1985-1989
Harvard University. President of the Baord of Overseers, 1989-1991.
 
CURRENT LEADERSHIP IN THESE ORGANIZATIONS
 
AEA Investors Inc.
International Rescue Committee
United National Association of the U.S.A.
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
International House
Youth for Understanding
The Brookings Institution
Asia Society
Greater New York Councils/Boy Scouts of America
J. Paul Getty Trust
Rockefeller University
Lincoln Center Theater
Outward Bound

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (57%); BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (56%); BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (57%); BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (56%); BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FOUNDATIONS; PHILANTHROPY; ORGANIZATIONS, SOCIETIES AND CLUBS; NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (94%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); FOUNDATIONS (88%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); PAINTING (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (74%); VOLUNTEERS (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); PONZI SCHEMES (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); 

PERSON: WHITEHEAD, JOHN C; WHITEHEAD, JOHN C (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); ARENSON, KAREN W JOHN C WHITEHEAD (95%); JOHN H MCARTHUR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



11 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS: INVESTING WITH;
Gail Bardin -- Hotchkis & Wiley Equity Income Fund

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
INVESTORS watching stock prices vault from one peak to the next can come down with a severe bout of vertigo. But cashing out of the market is not the only cure: buying funds that invest in inexpensive stocks that pay healthy dividends can provide some relief. While these funds tend to suffer when interest rates plummet, as they did last year, they also tend to hold up better in any kind of market drop.
The Hotchkis & Wiley Equity Income Fund, for example, follows a strict value discipline that forces it to choose the cheapest stocks in the most neglected areas of the market. Although the fund has gained 28 percent so far this year, making it a top performer in the equity-income group, it does not have pricey technology stocks or hot initial public offerings in its $139 million portfolio. 
 "I think it's particularly timely now because the market is so high," said Gail Bardin, who manages the eight-year-old fund with George Wiley for the Los Angeles firm of Hotchkis & Wiley, which has some $8 billion under management. Ms. Bardin, who joined Hotchkis & Wiley in 1988 as an assistant portfolio manager, was named co-manager a year and a half ago.
 
Buying What's Out of Favor
 To find good stocks at bargain-basement prices, Mr. Wiley and Ms. Bardin limit themselves to stocks that pay a substantial dividend. "Dividends are an important floor under the price of the stocks," Ms. Bardin said in a phone interview last week. "It does reduce our risk." The dividend yield, which is the dividend paid on each share divided by the share price, must be higher than the yield of the overall stock market, now 2.4 percent. The fund's stocks, on average, have a dividend yield of 3.6 percent.
Stocks must also be cheap. A stock's earnings yield, which is its earnings per share divided by the share price, must be three percentage points above the yield on the long-term bond, now 6.5 percent, to reward investors for the risk they take in equities. While the overall market has a price-earnings ratio of 15 based on next year's earnings, the Equity-Income Fund has a P.E. of just 11. This strict criteria generally leads Mr. Wiley and Ms. Bardin to stocks scorned by most other managers -- notably auto and retailing stocks.
The two are betting that the market has overreacted and that the outlook for many of these out-of-favor stocks is not as bleak as supposed. "At the first sign of renewed earnings growth, people will bid up the stocks," explained Ms. Bardin.
 
Cash Hoards
 While many fear that the coming economic downturn and a rising dollar will hurt the Big Three auto makers, Ms. Bardin considers Ford and General Motors great buys. Ford, for example, is trading at a P.E. of 5, while G.M. has a P.E. of 7. "They have piles of cash for the next downturn," she said. Chrysler, though it meets many of these criteria as well, does not make her list because it does not sell as many cars abroad.
 
A Penney Earned
 Ms. Bardin also favors some retail stocks, including two mass merchandisers, J. C. Penney, based in Plano, Tex.,, and Kmart, based in Troy, Mich. J. C. Penney, which is trading well below last year's high of $59, "is a dominant company in a very tough competitive industry," said Ms. Bardin, who noted the company has been buying back its own shares and has recently raised its dividend. "The danger with buying J. C. Penney is it doesn't do anything for a while," acknowledged Ms. Bardin. But with an above-average dividend yield of about 4 percent, the stock "rewards you while you wait."
 
A Proven Leader
 Kmart, whose stock price has plummeted over the last few years along with its earnings, is another top holding. "We have high hopes for the new C.E.O.," said Ms. Bardin. That is Floyd Hall, who has worked at retailers including B. Dalton, Grand Union and the Museum Company. The stock is trading at just 10 times next year's earnings of about $1.50, according to Ms. Bardin. "They ought to be able to earn $3," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gail Bardin, 49, co-manages the Hotchkis & Wiley Equity Income Fund in Los Angeles. (Scott Robinson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: HOTCHKIS & WILEY EQUITY INCOME FUND HOTCHKIS & WILEY (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOTCHKIS & WILEY EQUITY INCOME FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); DIVIDENDS (89%); BONDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); INTEREST RATES (57%); 

PERSON: BARDIN, GAIL; ABELSON, REED GAIL BARDIN (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



12 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
In TV Land, Work Involves a Lot of Play

BYLINE: By DANA ANDREW JENNINGS 

 BODY:
IF this fall's new shows are any indication, American productivity is in trouble.
The more than 40 new prime-time television shows teem with the leech professions (journalists and lawyers lurk everywhere) and young, urban singles who have no apparent means of support other than what can be called "The Friend Factor." 
 In the most memorable shows of the past, jobs helped shape and define the characters. Ralph Kramden, bus driver and Everyman on "The Honeymooners," still makes us laugh and squirm with recognition. In "The Mary Tyler Moore Show," Mary Richards lives out her crises in her Minneapolis newsroom. And in "Hill Street Blues," the work of policing is the medium in which its eccentric ensemble is portrayed.
But in a lot of the new shows ("The Single Guy" on NBC, "Can't Hurry Love" on CBS, "Partners" on Fox) jobs are mere accessories, just part of the wardrobe. Earning a living isn't an issue, it's a given. What matters most to these characters are their personal lives. Hanging out is an art.
"The Single Guy," for example, is Jonathan, a thirtyish novelist whose friends have nothing better to do than set him up with dates. His book hasn't sold many copies, but he has a nice Manhattan apartment. (Where do these characters find their apartments?) He goes out. He orders pay-per-view boxing. Does he have a trust fund? An N.E.A. grant? His biggest worry is his next date.
And one assumes that Jonathan and his dates don't talk much about universal health coverage or saving for retirement.
"The Single Guy" and its siblings are the spawn of the NBC hits "Seinfeld" and "Friends," in which the characters hang out in Manhattan and spend most of their time getting off witty lines. The entire city is their Algonquin Round Table, and they're on a first-name basis with the U.P.S. guy.
If the 1970's was "The Me Decade," then, according to these shows, the 1990's is "The Us Decade."
"I suppose these shows satisfy some strange sense of community," says Neal Gabler, a cultural historian. "Maybe they're a reaction to the 1980's, when the job was everything. These characters have no lives. But maybe they offer their viewers some kind of television support system."
Great, virtual friends.
In the television workplace, the cops and lawyers and doctors have always been with us, waxing and waning from season to season. But some jobs have nearly disappeared: game wardens and farmers, spies and superheroes, soldiers and cowboys. And that suburban fantasy class, represented by such shows as "Leave It to Beaver," "Father Knows Best" and "The Donna Reed Show," has, mercifully, vanished, too.
This season, neurotic singles aside, characters are trying out new occupations to fill the void. They include a child psychologist ("Minor Adjustments," NBC), an assistant personnel director ("The Drew Carey Show," ABC), a cartoonist ("Caroline in the City," NBC), an air-conditioner repairman ("The Jeff Foxworthy Show," ABC) and millionaire cyber-nerds ("Dweebs" CBS).
Will these careers outlast the game wardens and spies of yesterday? Who knows. But in light of all the young, lazy urban whiners on many of the season's new shows, one entry -- "Dweebs" -- feels like Balzac. Or, at least, Bill Gates telling a good joke.
Now, these four guys are doing their part for the gross domestic product. They're the millionaire founders of Cyberbyte Inc. -- recently moved from a windowless garage -- but they all brown-bag it for lunch. And "Dweebs" has the right techie-Trekkie feel for TV's first Silicon Valley sitcom.
Then comes that perennial TV career, journalism. The scoop here, from the ink-stained wretches ("Central Park West" and "New York News" on CBS, "The Preston Episodes" on Fox), to the photojournalists ("The Naked Truth" on ABC and "Strange Luck" on Fox) to the TV reporters ("The Bonnie Hunt Show" CBS) seems to be: not much work and lots of money.
Personally, I'm angling for a job at Communique, that slick, Manhattan glossy at the epicenter of "Central Park West." Its editor, Stephanie Wells as played by Mariel Hemingway, can afford a $3,000-a-month penthouse ("Hello, sweetheart, get me a drink") with a park view; most magazine editors would be happy to take the rent money as their salary and move to Hoboken. Then there's the columnist, pulling down $200,000 a year, who says, "My column gets published every month, as written." For $200,000 a year, you can shred my column and feed it to your ferret.
Not that much editing or writing goes on. Lots of bedding and conniving, though, played out against the backdrop of Manhattan as a theme park. Besides the journalists, there's also the young Kennedyesque prosecutor, the too-chic art gallery owner, the scummy stockbroker and Ms. Hemingway's whiny novelist-husband: "I should be supporting myself writing," he sniffles. (Papa Hemingway would have punched him out.) None of them work too hard, either.
This soft-handed bunch even plays softball in Central Park -- on a weekday. Not one character knows how to swing a softball bat, but darned if the ball doesn't go far. It's probably just as juiced as their salaries.
Those other mainstay TV characters -- judges and lawyers -- pop up this year in "JAG" and "The Home Court" on NBC, and, on CBS, "John Grisham's 'The Client' t" and "Courthouse." Some of these legal types are funny, some are serious and some are military, but they all pale before ABC's "Murder One" and its main character, Theodore Hoffman, a lawyer played by Daniel Benzali, the one arrival on television this season who's truly earning his salary.
There is not a false note in "Murder One," which will follow a single murder case the entire season. The lawyers are cynical, funny, relentless. The characters feel lived in, and live in their jobs. One look at Hoffman's face and you know he isn't paid enough, no matter how much he makes. He arrives at the office early and comes home late to his family and a glass of wine.
Sometimes we treat our TV's as mirrors. We peer into the pixel panoramas and hope to see ourselves. Maybe our neighbors.
In the first episode of "Murder One," Hoffman says to a client, "The whole truth is a pretty ambitious goal, Richard. Just tell me the truth I need to know."
And that's all we can ask of the very best television. We want the truth we need to know: about our lives, about our jobs.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jobs on the small screen are glitzy, goofy or, rarely, gritty. Above, Mariel Hemingway, right, playing a magazine editor, confers with Kylie Travis in CBS's "Central Park West" (K.C. Bailey/CBS); Jonathan Silverman, seated, plays a novelist with plenty of time for pal Joey Slotnick in "The Single Guy" on NBC (NBC); Daniel Benzali stars as an ace criminal defense lawyer with Jason Gedrick, right, and Michael Hayden, left, on "Murder One" on ABC. (Jerry Fitzgerald/ABC); Tea Leoni plays a photographer for a gossipy tabloid on "The Naked Truth" on ABC. (Timothy White/ABC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WRITERS (90%); PAY PER VIEW (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); LAWYERS (74%); HISTORY (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); PERSONAL FINANCE (50%); 

PERSON: JENNINGS, DANA ANDREWS MARY TYLER MOORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



13 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 8; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: GREENWICH VILLAGE;
Boxed In by Big New Buildings

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
From his fifth-floor fire escape facing Washington Street, Zachary Weinstein can watch tug boats plying the Hudson River. But that view will be obliterated if a proposed apartment complex goes up on the parking lot that fronts his building.
Rockrose Development Corporation, which has put up more than 1,000 rental units in this far corner of the West Village, is hoping to erect a 12-story, 283-unit building on the site at 100 Horatio Street. It would have 69,000 square feet more than current zoning allows. 
 The developer is asking the Department of City Planning to waive a zoning agreement struck with the agency in 1984. This so-called restrictive declaration limited the size of development but allowed Rockrose to build a residential project on a parcel formerly zoned for manufacturing.
"Rockrose made a deal with us, and now it's using trickery to get out of it," said Marie Dormuth, chairwoman of Community Board 2's zoning committee. Ten days ago, the board voted against any change in the restrictive declaration.
In asking for a bigger building, Rockrose is arguing that the economics of the project have changed. The building is now planned as an "80-20" project, with 20 percent of its units reserved for middle-income tenants; that qualifies Rockrose for tax-exempt financing.
But because there would be fewer market-rate apartments, Rockrose says, more units are needed to make the building financially viable.
"We think the current zoning is inappropriate for the site," said John Pettit West 3d, director of planning at Rockrose. Mr. West said that many nearby buildings are bigger than the one proposed. He cited the 21-story Memphis on Charles Street, which overshadows its neighbors.
In fact, residents of the area complain that they are being boxed into a canyon of tall, bulky buildings rising along Washington Street.
By contrast, the cobblestone streets directly east, like Jane Street, are lined with three-story row houses, while to the north, in the Gansevoort meat district, low-rise commercial buildings predominate.
"The Memphis and other tall buildings are exactly what we don't need more of," said Michele Herman, a founder of West Villagers for Responsible Development, which has been fighting Rockrose projects for years. A.J.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Opponents of a planned high-rise building look down on the site. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (72%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ROCKROSE DEVELOPMENT CORP ROCKROSE DEVELOPMENT CORP (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROCKROSE DEVELOPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ZONING MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); ZONING (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); TAX LAW (72%); CITIES (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW JOHN PETTIT WEST (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



14 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Why Listen to the Economic Naysayers?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The National Association of Manufacturers has done the country a service by announcing that the Federal Reserve Board's policy, which has stunted economic growth and has shaken confidence in our political system, is based on errors (news article, Sept. 24). 
 The N.A.M. asserts that the economy has the capacity to expand at 3.5 percent a year, instead of the Fed's 2.5 percent, without adding to inflation.
In the opinion of some observers, including myself, even the National Association of Manufacturers' 3.5 percent is diffident.
Inflationary pressures arise, and the Fed tightens credit whenever an economic expansion runs into bottlenecks (shortages -- often temporary or local -- of plant, equipment, materials, labor).
The National Association of Manufacturers says the bottlenecks the Fed claims to see are specters, although they may materialize when growth reaches 3.5 percent.
That raises two urgent questions:
Can bottlenecks be anticipated? And if so, can they be prevented or overcome before they cause lasting damage?
On these questions no one has access to better information than the manufacturers.
The National Association of Manufacturers, perhaps with the National Association of Purchasing Managers and the Conference Board, should establish a committee of wise people to:
(1) Detail all current and foreseeable bottlenecks; (2) recommend what manufacturers and other employers should do to alleviate them; (3) identify the kinds of help, if any, employers will need from government.
 
ROBERT ZAGER
Stamford, Conn., Sept. 26, 1995
 
The writer is a retired vice president for policy studies, Work in America Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC5192 BOOKS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF MANUFACTURERS; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (90%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (95%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF MANUFACTURERS; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (95%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POLITICS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



15 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

Monday
 
The National Association of Purchasing Management releases its September manufacturing index. Forecast: 51.8, up from 46.9 in August.
 
Most car makers report sales for September.
 
The U.S. Supreme Court begins its 1995-1996 term.
 
The Commerce Department reports personal income and spending for August. Forecast: income unchanged and spending up 0.7 percent.
 
The Commerce Department also reports August construction spending. Forecast: up 0.2 percent, following a 2 percent increase in July.
 
Tuesday
 
The owners of the bankrupt Rockefeller Center and Rockefeller Center Properties are expected to present a joint plan of reorganization to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York.
 
Wednesday
 
The annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank begin in Washington. They last through Oct. 12.
 
Ford reports September sales.
 
The Commerce Department reports leading indicators for August. Forecast: no change, following a 0.2 percent decline in July.
 
The Commerce Department also reports August factory orders. Forecast: down 0.8 percent. They had fallen 1.3 percent in July and 0.1 percent in June.
 
Thursday
 
Retailers report same-store sales for September.
 
The Commerce Department releases housing completions for August. They had risen 7.5 percent in July.
 
Friday
 
The Labor Department reports unemployment for September. Forecast: 5.6 percent, no change from August, with non-farm payrolls up 158,000. Payrolls in August had risen 249,000.
 
The Federal Reserve releases August consumer credit. Forecast: up $9.3 billion, following an $8.8 billion increase in July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: RCP (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); RETAILERS (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HOUSING COMPLETIONS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); CONSUMER CREDIT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



16 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING 

 BODY:

HOTSHOTS
 
How to Lose a Billion
What a glorious world they've made for themselves, those hotshots with fancy computers and sleek pocket phones and grim faces, juggling the world's billions with a deftness that chess masters would envy. No one would dare pester these Masters of the Universe with nerdy questions like, "Are you, O Great One, by any chance making up those numbers?" Apparently no one asked Toshihide Iguchi that question -- or at least looked very hard for an answer. For last week authorities charged that Mr. Iguchi, a bond trader at Daiwa Bank, had gone into an 11-year spiral of falsifying records in a desperate attempt to recoup trading losses -- and wound up a staggering $1.1 billion in the red... So do bond traders tend to do things in a big way? It seems so. For while most baseball fans are content to grumble and munch if their boys let them down, on Thursday a Chicago bond trader ran onto the field and attacked a Cubs pitcher who'd just given up a home run. Ah, sports!
 
INVESTIGATIONS
 
Following Archer-Daniels Money
The plot thickens at Archer-Daniels-Midland. Mark Whitacre -- you remember: the Archer executive who turned Government informant and raised cries of price-fixing -- has apparently admitted to crimes related to company money he received, and though no plea deal has been reached, he is cooperating with an inquiry. But what was this money? The company says it was embezzled, but some executives are offering another script entirely: that Archer paid millions -- illegally and off the books -- to a number of executives through foreign bank accounts. If that's true, the "embezzlement" becomes a scheme to let top executives indulge in that all-too-common pastime: evading income taxes. What's true? Stay tuned.
 
EXECUTIVE PAY
 
Ted Turner, Wage-Earner
What made Ted Turner give up the power of running his own show? Surely it wasn't money. There's only so much one person can spend in this world. But at a certain level -- way, way up beyond paying the bills -- salary figures take on a life of their own. Mr. Turner's pay is clearly up in that never-never land -- especially for a No. 2 executive. With options and such corner-office goodies, he's said to be making more than $100 million over five years -- far more even than Gerald Levin, his boss at Time Warner. Then again, even that fantasy paycheck seems almost incidental, for Mr. Turner is getting $2.6 billion in Time Warner stock.
 
BUDGET CUTS
 
They're Saying the 'S' Words
No, that rumbling you heard last week was not an earthquake, or New Jersey being replaced by a golf course. It was -- brace yourself -- the budget-cutters saying the "S" words. Normally, politicians would kick babies before they'd cut Social Security, but these are not normal times -- austerity is such a passion that babies across the land are surely being named "Newt Smith" or "Budget Cut Jones." So sure enough, senators from both parties suggested shaving cost-of-living increases -- a panel of economists just said, after all, that the Consumer Price Index overstates inflation. Pat Moynihan said $281 billion could be saved over seven years that way. "The money is sitting there," he said, "asking to be picked up." If they pick it up, though, will they be pummeled by retirees?
 
DEBT COLLECTION
 
Your Taxes or Your Kneecaps
If Congressional Republicans have their way, it won't just be the I.R.S. knocking on your door wondering if, pretty please, you could pay your taxes. It could be practically anyone. The legislators want to turn over some dunning tasks to private bill collectors to see if they can do it better -- raising all sorts of nasty privacy issues. It's all, of course, part of the whole budget mess -- the Administration wanted to increase the I.R.S. budget nearly 10 percent; Republicans want to cut it. To Margaret Milner Richardson, the I.R.S. Commissioner, this budget-trimming is misguided, for it's accepted wisdom that tax enforcers bring in far more than their salaries. "No sound business person," she said, "would not spend money to make money."
 
TRANSPORTATION
 
A Slippery Road
There must be a better way, drivers mutter as they inch through exhaust-fouled air, past perpetual construction, to drop coins in a state toll basket. But are we ready for private highways? Well, ready or not, they're here, with a 14-mile road linking Dulles Airport and Leesburg, Va., opening this weekend -- the first privately financed toll road built this century. With the public sector "just tapped out," as one executive put it, this may sometimes be the only way to build a road. But just think what today's maniacal marketers could do with this. There could be rival thruways, each bombarding drivers with ads for, say, wider lanes, smoother surfaces, better views, free meals, toll sales -- perhaps even drive-by movies, but that sounds risky.
 
EDUCATION
 
Cheaper Than a Luxury Car
The bad news: college costs keep rising faster than inflation -- 6 percent last year, the College Board said last week. With total costs at top colleges nearing $30,000, and with Federal grants and loans tight, students face "a deeply mortgaged future," said the head of the College Board. But there's good news too. "There are some tremendous bargains out there," said an official of the American Council on Education. Two years ago, "61 percent of all American college students spent less than $3,000 in tuition and fees."
 
EXECUTIVES
 
An 'Odd Meal' at I.B.M.?
It takes a tough man to make a tender computer? No, that doesn't work. A PC in every pot? Oh, never mind. Let I.B.M. figure it out. Louis Gerstner certainly knew what he was doing last week when he picked J. Bruce Harreld, president of Boston Chicken, as chief strategist. Still, one analyst couldn't resist saying, "That's an odd meal -- cookies with chicken, sprinkled over silicon chips."
 
THE PAPAL VISIT
 
The Priceless and the Profane
You can't put a price on something like seeing the Pope, an experience presumably far beyond worldly matters. That's why most tickets to this week's Mass at Giants Stadium were given out by lottery at local churches. And yet, in this imperfect world, few things can escape: ads were spotted in New Jersey papers last week offering to swap those priceless tickets for coin of the profane realm.

GRAPHIC: Photo: RAILROADS -- It Only Looks Like a Duck -- The Central Japan Railway unveiled a prototype last week of a train that, when in motion, is held above a monorail with a magnetic force. Top speed: 310 miles an hour. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (82%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (82%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (82%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (82%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (82%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (82%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (82%); CHICAGO CUBS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); EMBEZZLEMENT (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX FRAUD (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PRICE FIXING (75%); BASEBALL (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (70%); SPORTS FANS (68%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: HERRING, HUBERT B TED TURNER (72%); TOSHIHIDE IGUCHI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



17 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Victoria Hamilton, Ernest Marchand

 BODY:
Victoria Lynn Hamilton, a daughter of Ann O. Hamilton of Washington and Edward K. Hamilton of San Marino, Calif., was married last evening to Ernest Gregory Marchand, a son of Dr. and Mrs. E. Roger Marchand of San Diego. Judge Flora B. Wolf of the Court of Common Pleas in the First Judicial District of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia officiated at the ANA Hotel in Washington.
Mrs. Marchand, 28, is a management intern in the Boston office of the Department of Health and Human Services. She graduated from Stanford University and received master's degrees in social work and public health, both from Boston University. Her father is the president of Hamilton, Rabinovitz & Altschuler, policy and management consultants in Los Angeles. He was the budget director of New York City from 1970 to 1971 and its First Deputy Mayor from 1971 to 1974. Her mother is a senior adviser at the World Bank in Washington for the South Asia region. 
 Mr. Marchand, 31, is a fourth-year medical student at Boston University. He graduated from San Diego State University. His mother, Sandra Marchand, is the school secretary at Marie Curie Elementary School in San Diego. His father is an adjunct professor of surgery and neurosciences at the University of California at San Diego.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTHERN ASIA (67%); ASIA (52%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (91%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (91%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTHERN ASIA (67%); ASIA (52%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (75%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); NEUROSCIENCE (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (52%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, VICTORIA LYNN (VICTORIA LYNN MARCHAND); MARCHAND, ERNEST GREGORY E ROGER MARCHAND (90%); VICTORIA LYNN HAMILTON (77%); EDWARD K HAMILTON (55%); ANN O HAMILTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



18 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD: Just Like You-Know-Who;
Russia's Voters Turn Cranky

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SPECTER 

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
CONSIDER these political facts as the 1996 election season nears:
*A man in a uniform is ready to lead the people into the next century and the people seem ready to be led. He is decisive, proud, slightly regal. And he strikes fear into the current leadership. 
 *It's still the economy, stupid. Voters say it is by far the biggest problem facing the country. And they will support whoever they think can make it better.
*Dissatisfaction with government has rarely been higher. Only 5 percent of people in a major new poll think elected officials are interested in "improving our lives," while 60 percent think officials are "only interested in helping themselves."
 
Hating Politicians
 And of course, nearly everyone hates the President. Sound like America?
Nyet. Russia seems to have just as much inclination as America to wish presidential qualities on a general with no political experience. Voters here have the same yearning to vote for whoever lives outside the Beltway (in Moscow it's called the Ring Road). And nearly everyone has the tendency to get all misty eyed when remembering the way it was. (People here are remarkably adept at forgetting the labor camps while they remember that fresh bread used to cost a penny a loaf.)
So what is all this talk about the wildly immature Russian political system? In many ways, according to the poll, which was conducted in July by Russian pollsters working with an international group that promotes democracy, the angry Russian electorate seems eerily similar in its hostility to politicians to the people who have turned Newt Gingrich into the Speaker of the House. When asked whom they are likely to vote for in the presidential election, the respondents gave "I don't know" 14 percent, "difficult to say" 20 percent and "none" 25 percent. Not much to comfort those who run the country.
"The common voter spits on politicians together and separately," Gen. Aleksandr Lebed, the outspoken and revered possible presidential candidate, said in an interview with Pravda last week, speaking perhaps with a bit more fire in the belly than one gets from Gen. Colin L. Powell. "It is quite clear you won't be able to drag him to the elections even with a lasso."
He might be wrong about that -- at least according to the poll, which was conducted for the International Foundation of Electoral Systems, a joint effort by policy researchers in Russia and the United States. The sample, which consisted of 3,560 face-to-face interviews across Russia, suggests that voters are dying to get to the polls and turn the bums out.
But General Lebed has a point that, like most of the other results of this poll, would play as well in Kansas City as in Irkutsk.
 
Feeling Cheated . . .
 Pessimism is the order of the day as Russia is about to elect a new Parliament in December and a new President in June. Voters are down on everyone they used to be up on. They feel cheated by the slow pace of reform and the untidy nature of a new democracy. If somebody had the brains to draw up a Contract with Russia, he would win going away.
But people here really aren't as negative as the numbers make them seem (even discounting the 2 percent margin of sampling error in the poll). It's hard to be happy with a Government that started what is widely seen as a useless war (Chechnya), and one in which official corruption is more the rule than the exception. Most respondents to this survey are convinced that there was fraud in the last elections, in 1993, and that there will be fraud this time too.
 
. . . but a Little Optimistic
 Despite those obvious failures of confidence, the future may not be as bleak as it seems. "One thing we noted very clearly," said Michael Caputo, the Russia-based program manger for the group that conducted the poll. "There is also some strong optimism here. There are large numbers of people in Russia who honestly feel that their vote can change things. You don't often find that in the United States."
People also talk about issues here. They have important views on private property and local autonomy. The country is in the process of being created, and many young people are excited about the future.
Still there are problems. No presidential candidate received more than 14 percent of the vote in this early poll. Few people understand political parties. More than a third of the likely voters thought one family member could cast a vote for another. Many think prisoners can vote and most think you don't need to be able to speak Russian to vote. (All are wrong.)
"The politicians treat the Russian voter like a peasant," General Lebed said in the interview last week, painting the picture a little darker than it may be. "They ignore the realities. If his television is broken, our modern Uncle Vanya cannot buy a new one. It costs too much. He doesn't read papers. His political feelings can be described in a single a word: boredom."
Gee, what a strange country.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Worried About the Economy and Crime, Sound Familiar?" shows poll results in Russia and America about what they thought the biggest problem facing their country today. (Source: International Foundation of Electoral Systems survey conducted by the Institute for Eomparative Social Research (Russia); The New York Times/CBS News Poll (United States)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); 

PERSON: SPECTER, MICHAEL NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



19 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
The Republicans' Farm Crisis

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

 BODY:
EVERYWHERE the Congressional Republicans are confronting the end of the euphoria that accompanied the end of their first 100 days in office. Nowhere has the task of reconciling principles with political expedience been more difficult than it has with farm subsidies.
Of all the breaks and handouts the Federal Government dispenses, few are as egregious to the Republican Party's free-market thinkers. Yet the subsidies are critical to Midwestern Congressional districts that have elected mostly Republicans since the days of Lincoln. And the subsidies are vital to rural Southern Congressional districts that Democrats held until the days of Reagan, and that Republicans must now hold if they are to cement their grip on the House.
 
Southern Rebellion
 And so Republican politicians buckled last week under pressure from farm groups. Republicans on the House Agriculture Committee from cotton-growing Southern districts refused to accept their chairman's plan for radical agricultural reform. With all the Democrats lined up against it because of their opposition to the deep cuts ordered by House G.O.P. leaders, the committee was paralyzed and ultimately asked the Budget Committee to write farm budget legislation -- the first time in a dozen years that a Congressional committee has chosen to abdicate its responsibility on a budget reconciliation bill. 
 Southern Republicans on the Senate Agriculture Committee also forced their chairman, Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, to pursue a less ambitious course. Senator Thad Cochran of Mississippi, responding to the concerns of wealthy cotton farmers, insured that the cap on Federal payments to each member of a farmer's household stayed at the current level of $250,000, instead of falling to as little as $50,000, as previously discussed. To balance that and other concessions, the Senate Agriculture Committee chose to make new cuts in payments for milk for school lunches.
Senator Lugar was forced to accept the changes and content himself with the less controversial but still far-reaching repeal of Federal programs that pay farmers not to plant crops in certain fields. When it comes to farm issues, he said wearily after the committee approved the legislation on Thursday morning, "People simply do not have an ideological point of view or a party point of view, they simply have a very strong affinity for the growers in their states."
Dismay among some freshmen Republican members of Congress who are determined to exercise their free-market principles, notably Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, may yet force the full Senate and House to reconsider agricultural budget policies. But the farm budget legislation that will profoundly shape rural America through 2002 is being folded into giant budget reconciliation bills encompassing everything from Medicaid to student loans. Discussion of the bills will be limited in both chambers, with senators having only 20 hours to debate the entire package.
Republican leaders tried unsuccessfully to enforce discipline on their agriculture committees. Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia mused in a private meeting a week ago that he could try to rein in three mutinous Republican representatives from cotton-growing districts -- Richard H. Baker of Louisiana, Larry Combest of Texas and Bill Emerson of Missouri -- by threatening them with the loss of committee chairmanships and assignments.
The threats were never issued, but came to light when a Republican aide hit the wrong button on his computer and sent a summary of the meeting by electronic mail to a Democratic representative. Democrats on the Agriculture Committee triumphantly waved copies of the memorandum before reporters, declaring that the Republican leadership could not be counted on to look after rural America.
Republicans have had no shortage of advice from conservative research groups like the Cato Institute and the Heritage Foundation, which have been uniformly critical. American consumers are forced to pay billions of dollars extra for food each year as the Agriculture Department tries to hold up farm prices by limiting low-cost imports and paying farmers to grow smaller crops. More liberal economists have noted that the money is distributed regardless of need, with the biggest payments going to the wealthiest farmers and agribusinesses.
To be sure, Republicans do not have a monopoly on inconsistency when it comes to the Federal budget and agriculture policy. Representative Charles W. Stenholm of Texas has long been the leading Democratic supporter of a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, but he was also the leading advocate for many years of Federal mohair subsidies. Congress began phasing out the subsidies two years ago, and Mr. Stenholm maneuvered unsuccessfully this year to revive them.
There are strong arguments for some farm subsidies, although the current system for disbursing them may be poorly designed. Many rural communities across America could wither if the farms that have sustained them fail for lack of Federal dollars. The subsidies help insure a minimum level of prosperity, coupled with decent education and some social stability.
These are, of course, much the same arguments made by urban Democrats defending food stamps and school lunches -- arguments that receive short shrift from many farm-state lawmakers.

GRAPHIC: Map/Diagram: "Where Cotton Grows" shows the counties where cotton was planted widely in 1994. (Source for cotton growth: Agriculture Department's National Agriculture Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (52%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (94%); SENATE AGRICULTURE COMMITTEE (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (94%); SENATE AGRICULTURE COMMITTEE (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (77%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (77%); COTTON FARMING (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MEDICAID (72%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (72%); APPROVALS (66%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (62%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (58%); THAD COCHRAN (58%); DICK LUGAR (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



20 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Experts to Mr. Clinton: We Love the Funk

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT CLINTON assures us that America's "funk" is not related to the "malaise" from which Jimmy Carter promised to lead the nation. Nor, for that matter, is anyone even remotely justified in dredging up memories of Herbert Hoover's wistful prediction that prosperity was "just around the corner."
And while you're at it, take note that there are no conceivable parallels between Bill Clinton's efforts to cheer up the nation and Gerald Ford's crusade to Whip Inflation Now: no "WIN" buttons for this President. 
 The White House's anti-funk campaign, which began with the President's off-the-cuff remarks on how the economy was in better shape than people thought, will probably not survive the snide comments of editorial writers. Political agendas and cheerleading aside, it does raise the question about where confidence -- and the way it is measured -- fits in the performance of the economy.
Businesses and policymakers pay attention to consumer confidence, largely through an index published by the Conference Board, a New York-based business group. Many economists, however, doubt that consumers take an active role in driving the economy, or that knowing what is on their minds is useful in forecasting the future. "Consumer confidence measures don't tell you anything new -- anything you don't know from other statistics," argues Robert Reischauer, the former director of the Congressional Budget Office.
What's more, it is unclear that confidence is an unalloyed virtue in the era of no-money-down, perhaps-we'll-never-have-to-pay. Consumer confidence may fill airplanes with vacationers and auto showrooms with tire kickers, but the money they spend is money they won't have for, say, college tuition or nursing homes.
 
Chickens and Eggs
 The Conference Board's index, probably the most influential in the country, has been calculated on a monthly basis since 1978. Some 5,000 randomly chosen American households answer a few questions on how they assess business conditions, whether jobs are plentiful, whether business conditions will improve in the next six months and how they themselves are faring economically. The combined responses create an index in which 1985 (a relatively confident year) is set to equal 100.
This may not be rocket science, but it does seem to make common sense. "Two-thirds of all spending in the economy is by consumers," notes Fabian Linden, the executive director of the Conference Board's Consumer Research Center. And, not surprisingly, confidence often tracks consumer spending which often tracks the ups and downs in the economy.
The index headed south to a miserable 15.8 at the tail end of the 1980-82 recession from a peak of 126.3 in December of 1978. Like the economy, it shuffled along in the funkish 50 to 80 range through 1991 and 1992. But it really took off in 1994, reaching 111.4 in December after Americans apparently started to believe the ever-more impressive statistics on rising employment and stable prices. Although it had slipped to 97.4 in the latest survey, Mr. Fabian counsels that confidence levels above 80 have "historically been associated with healthy economic activity."
But which comes first, the confidence or the healthy economic activity? The distinction matters. If confident consumers make the economy grow faster, it might be worth giving them the occasional Presidential pep talk. At the very least, their state of mind ought to be useful in forecasting consumer spending. On the other hand if consumers are only confident because the economy is growing, the whole business is circular.
And that view is widespread among research economists. "Confidence indexes are very closely tied to interest rates and unemployment," argues Andrew Scott of Oxford University's All Souls College, and thus "don't add much predictive power."
The more fundamental question -- one rarely asked in this context -- is whether a confident consumer is an asset or a liability to a modern economy. For although this may be a conservative age in which markets reign supreme, most Americans' view about economics is still based on a Depression mindset, in which the fear is that business will throw a party and no one will come.
 
Consumers May Not Count
 That fear makes sense to store owners who have stocked up on, say, Levis or Power Ranger dolls, and won't be able to pay the rent unless the mall browsers shop 'til they drop. By the same token it is perfectly logical to root for consumers if you work for Chrysler and Ford decides to expand its capacity to produce minivans. But the whole is less than the sum of the parts.
While individual producers may overestimate the size of their markets (with unhappy results for both their stockholders and workers), there is no inherent tendency in the economy to what the first generation of Keynes's disciples called "underconsumption."
"It's hard to imagine that aggregate demand is the problem in the American economy," says Mr. Reischauer.
These days, recessions are the result of miscalculations -- typically, excessive zeal by the Federal Reserve to keep prices stable by containing overall spending. Indeed, anyone who has been paying attention to the hand-wringing over national savings rates might conclude that America would be a better place to live in the next millennium if consumers paused to build nest-eggs for retirement.
From the perspective of modern economics, then, consumers are essentially passive participants in the business cycle, the waxing and waning of output and employment according to shocks to the economy (like the Persian Gulf war) and the Government's response to those shocks. Consumer behavior really matters, though, in the long run, where the individual decisions to delay gratification have a cumulative impact on growth and living standards.
Perhaps, then, the President was wrong on the merits as well as the atmospherics. Perhaps what America needs, besides the nickel cigar, is a good funk.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gerald Ford tried to whip inflation.; Jimmy Carter pointed to a national malaise. (UPI/Bettmann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD INC (70%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PUBLIC OPINION; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RECESSION (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); CHEERLEADING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); POULTRY (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (71%); WRITERS (68%); TUITION FEES (63%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); JIMMY CARTER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



21 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 2; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: New World;
What the Pope Sees (and Doesn't) in America

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: ROME

 BODY:
HE UNITED STATES is not an easy country to figure out, even for Americans.
So imagine how hard it must be for a Pope, any Pope, a man who as leader of the Roman Catholic Church spends much of his time within the walls of a miniature city-state where most of the people he sees every day are of the same faith and the same sex, and are ready to accept what he says as a matter of unassailable doctrine. 
 In short, it is a long way from the Vatican to Times Square, or even Middle America -- to the places where the drama of modern American culture, with all its diversities and perversities, plays itself out in a vocabulary that changes faster than guests on a late-night talk show.
So what does Pope John Paul II know about Americans, and how does he know it? The question is pertinent not only because he is embarking this week on his sixth American trip (two as bishop of Cracow, three as Pope, not counting a brief stopover in Alaska), but because so much of his message in the years since the fall of Communism seems directed straight at the American condition.
Who else does he have in mind when he talks about a creeping "culture of death" conditioned by reckless individualism and thoughtless materialism, when he voices concern over the decline of the family, and when he cautions democracies against exalting majority rule at the expense of moral values?
 
Modernity's Pioneers
 Obviously, his harsh warnings are directed at modern societies in general -- Western Europe and, to an increasing degree, formerly Communist Eastern Europe and parts of the developing world. But when it comes to modernity, this Pope seems to share the common view that for better or for worse, the United States got there first.
A Pope has many ways of gathering information, and this Pope makes use of all of them. Every five years, he receives the bishops from a particular country, who besides presenting written reports on their dioceses, meet with the Pope individually for 20 minutes each, and dine with him collectively. He gets regular briefing papers from his diplomatic corps, the Papal Nuncios accredited in national capitals. From such sources, Vatican officials say, Pope John Paul II is surely up-to-date on such issues as tuition vouchers, welfare reform, the Republican Contract with America and other aspects of America's national political debate.
A gregarious man who speaks English and several other languages, Pope John Paul also makes a regular practice of gathering experts on a wide range of subjects, from modern management theory to macroeconomics, from the philosophy of science to animal rights -- a subject he heard about last week when he gave an audience to the French movie star Brigitte Bardot.
But on the other hand, this is not a Pope known to indulge in popular culture in any form -- unlike Paul VI, who according to one report liked to relax with a cowboy movie. Pope John Paul II apparently has no time for films, although he once asked to see "Gandhi." And when it comes to American culture, high and low, those who know him are hard pressed to name a particular author or book that has impressed him, except Walt Whitman, whose poetry he can recite, and "Atlas Shrugged" by Ayn Rand, which he read only because he was fleetingly curious about her theories.
According to the Vatican spokesman, Dr. Joaquin Navarro-Valls, Karol Wojtyla recognized back in 1969 -- when he made a three-month tour of the United States and Canada as the 49-year-old bishop of Cracow -- that America, for him, was terra incognita. "He knew then that in his intellectual formation there was something substantial missing," Dr. Navarro-Valls explained.
"He came from Poland, but practically speaking, he grew up within the European tradition; he studied Sartre and the German phenomenologists. He knew America as a place where thought does not exist as thought, but as action, translated into the American way of life. And that is why he was interested. How could a country that doesn't have big names, big thinkers, have such a strong influence on the world?"
It is doubtful how much a Polish cleric, sent on a whirlwind tour of Polish-American parishes, really picked up about the American way of life. His next trip in 1976 -- to Philadelphia for a Eucharistic Congress, to Boston and Washington -- was even more limited.
 
A European View
 And by the time he came as Pope in 1979, many still detected in him a classic European attitude toward Americans. "I think he had a tendency to look down on the United states, to see Americans as naive, simplistic and materialistic, which was the consistent portrayal of the States in Poland at the time," said Father Avery Dulles, a Jesuit theologian at Fordham University. "There was also a tendency in Europe to resent the United States as a world leader, and he may have imbibed a little of that."
By some accounts, the 1979 trip was not altogether successful. It was then that many American Catholics -- while thrilled at the first pastoral visit by a successor to St. Peter -- came face to face with the rigidity of this Pope's moral doctrine. And it was then that Pope John Paul II first encountered the contentious American spirit, when Sister Mary Theresa Kane, president of the Leadership Conference of Women Religious, publicly challenged him on the ordination of women as priests.
When the weeklong trip was over, the National Catholic Reporter concluded that the Pope "did not grasp the pluralism" of American society. "Has John Paul II misread the U.S. experience," asked a headline on an editorial complaining that the Pope seemed to view American Catholics as "dilettantes dabbling in Christianity."
His second trip in 1987 gave him a wider view of the States, taking him across the South and Southwest, up through California and across to Detroit. "On that trip he was able to see the richness of the church," said one American priest, noting that he met with Indians, black Catholics, AIDS victims and many other groups who, together, gave him a better picture not only of America's diversity but also of the depth of religious feeling that in many ways sets the United States apart. "He has learned in detail that the United States is not Western Europe," said George Weigel, president of the Ethics and Public Policy Center in Washington. "Whatever else you can say, Sunday morning in the United States is different in a very powerful way than it is in Western Europe."
"The United States is not the bad boy, not by any means," said Cardinal Edmund Szoka, prefect of Economic Affairs of the Vatican and one of two American cardinals who will accompany the Pope this week. "I think he has great esteem for the American Catholic church, and for the Catholic laity who really have retained the faith. People speak up, but that that does not mean they are not faithful."
Mr. Weigel argues that in recent years, there has been a convergence between the Pope's message and Americans' willingness to listen. "From the question of virtue and democracy, to the spiraling divorce rate, and births out of wedlock, the Pope's message can be heard within the American conversation," Mr. Weigel said.
 
The Midwest
 In that sense, many would argue that a Pope need not know the lyrics to the latest gangsta rap hit in order to know that many Americans share his concern about the violence in their culture. "Whenever people talk about some new extreme American phenomenon, he will also say, 'Don't forget about the Middle West,' " said Dr. Navarro-Valls. "It took me a while to realize he wasn't talking about Chicago, or Detroit, but about another America, which may be the majority."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HOLY SEE (92%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ITALY (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (58%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); HOLY SEE (92%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ITALY (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); ALASKA, USA (79%); ROME, ITALY (58%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRENDS (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%); POLITICAL DEBATES (60%); PHILOSOPHY (60%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (60%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (54%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (50%); ACCREDITATION (50%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE; POPE (JOHN PAUL II) POPE JOHN PAUL II (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



22 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: The Co-Author of Gen. Powell's Book Is Given a Part as the Story Goes On

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: GUILDERLAND, N.Y.

 BODY:
As Colin L. Powell first tried to talk out his life story, the Vietnam years would slip feebly away, downplayed in clipped military-speak, until the person listening and inquiring and composing had to challenge the military man's resistance to those memories.
"He had an emotional shield around him concerning that experience," said the listener, Joseph E. Persico, co-author of the retired four-star general's autobiography, a creative role that has proved to be as much political midwife and spin doctor as biographer. 
 Between them, the two men collaborated on a 643-page vehicle-turned-juggernaut that teases the nation with the thought that Mr. Powell may run for President in a fresh chapter of the life that Mr. Persico still cannot shake.
The general continues to call the writer almost daily from the road, with tales of book-signing fun and endurance in "that voice, an amalgam of New York City-wise kid and Boy Scout," Mr. Persico said.
"He did two Vietnam tours, and he gave me bare bones," the writer recalled about the most difficult part of the collaboration. "He'd say 'regimental adviser in '63' and 'battalion exec in '68.'
"And I said: 'Wait a minute. That's it? You served in the Army during this country's most controversial war and its most sundered period since the Civil War. You saw friends die. You can't let it go like this.' "
As it turned out, the general did not. The reams of tape-recorded memories that Mr. Persico elicited across 20 months of visits to Mr. Powell's simple basement den in McLean, Va., grew richer in detail, as did the finished book, "My American Journey," with two chapters on the war.
"He started explaining his frustration at what he saw," Mr. Persico said. "The Army's unwillingness to challenge the political leaders as to just what was expected out of this conflict. The whole attitude of inflation of success, of body counts. All the factors he felt undermined the Army's credibility and his own sense of self-worth. This came eventually pouring out of him."
Not since Elvis Presley was an enlisted man has a soldier mustered out to such waiting celebrity and exploited it so well, by chapter and verse. The book has been selling at an industry-shocking rate, as readers follow General Powell all the way back from Gulf War strategist to South Bronx Shabbos goy, the lad who earned a quarter on Friday nights turning on and off the synagogue lights for Orthodox Jews.
There is even an owning-up anecdote that rings of George Washington's cherry tree. "Father, I did it," he admitted from the assembled gathering of teen-age summer campers when an angry priest asked who had sneaked beer onto the grounds. Mr. Persico cites that as a formative lesson in the rewards of honesty, not the conscious limning of a campaigner's profile.
"In all the time we worked together, never once did he say to me, 'Now don't forget this is a campaign Bible that we have to shape,' " said Mr. Persico, who has written biographies of Nelson A. Rockefeller, Edward R. Murrow and William J. Casey.
Mr. Persico knows more than a little about politics because he was the speechwriter for Mr. Rockefeller as New York Governor and Vice President.
"And, naturally, we never did anything so incautious that it would foreclose a political future," Mr. Persico said about General Powell's osmotically transferred subtleties. "Interest in the book fuels interest in his political future, and vice versa. It's hopeless to deny they're joined at the hip."
"I would intrude" in urging the general to run for President, Mr. Persico conceded. He received no clear answer as he made the case, in talent and history, for a popular black hero who was seeking the White House.
"It would be cosmic," Mr. Persico said. "And he said, 'There're other things I can do.' And I said, 'Nothing comparable.' "
In the collaboration, the writer made weekly flights from his apartment here in the Albany suburbs to the Powell home, the two men working in the den and carefully securing their labor, particularly the taped interviews, which were entrusted for transcription only to Mr. Persico's wife, Sylvia, and daughter Vanya Perez.
"I knew absolutely nothing about Colin Powell other than what everybody else knew: this stern-visaged guy with the pointer before the chart who was cutting off armies and killing them," said Mr. Persico, who received the assignment on the Random House book after the general had interviewed and selected him from among a list of writers.
"I would have speculated he was black middle class, out of West Point," Mr. Persico said of his subject, who turned out to be a humbler working-class R.O.T.C. graduate of City College in Manhattan and, like Mr. Persico, the son of a seamstress.
"We clicked early, both of us compulsive workers, and we were drained at the end," Mr. Persico said, noting that after 10-hour workdays he faxed pages of fresh questions to the general's home near midnight and was awakened at dawn by pages of replies. "The guy's an interesting combination of easygoing style and sterling-steel ambition."
The writer saw his job as capturing the general's voice, "almost like tuning in a frequency on the radio," and letting the general modulate its tone. "He'd tell me how he was refused service in a hamburger joint in the South, and I'd write and edit that, maybe change something to make it more book-readable," Mr. Persico said. "We'd go over that chapter and hit that passage, and he would want to add or rephrase something. Then, I might rephrase what he rephrased. So, in the end, who wrote it? It was a very tight collaboration."
Mr. Persico, a well-reviewed biographer whose favorite writer is George Orwell, said General Powell had written beautifully of his young days in New York, describing stickball and his immigrant father coming home from work.
"The guy speaks in sentences that form paragraphs that turn into pages," Mr. Persico recounted. "You could lift whole passages of what he said and just lower them into the book."
On the other hand, the general had to be talked out of dwelling on some of his proudest Army moments, from inspection awards for platoon excellence as a junior officer to structural changes in the Army as Pentagon chief after the cold war.
" 'What, you don't want more about Force Structure and Joint Publication 1?' he'd say, his feelings hurt," Mr. Persico recalled. "And I'd just snore in reaction. I told him, 'We have to keep in mind a person reading your life. Picture a rather bright ninth-grade social-studies teacher, probably a woman, in Winnetka, Ill. How much does she want to hear about Force Structure?' "
It helps to be hero-proof, Mr. Persico said, in facing Mr. Powell's charm, which includes a biting humor and a mix of calypso and Yiddish accents that the writer found the general cautiously toning down on the page. Warnings of irascibility were not borne out in 20 months.
General Powell even went forth quietly to buy the sandwiches (hero sandwiches).
"You keep working," he told Mr. Persico, whose writer's labor beyond interviewing and selecting material was in "getting narrative fire out of how you juxtapose things."
"I'm exhausted, exhilarated," Mr. Persico said as he declined to discuss his fee. He now wonders, along with much of the nation, how Mr. Powell's life will turn out.
"We had a conversation where I told him he had to run, that even if he didn't succeed, it would be defeat in a noble cause," Mr. Persico said. "And he just looked at me and said, 'But I like to win.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph E. Persico, the co-author of retired Gen. Colin L. Powell's autobiography, in his study at his home. (David Jennings for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: MY AMERICAN JOURNEY (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); BOOKSTORES (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); LITERATURE (76%); DESERT STORM (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: POWELL, COLIN L (GEN) (RET); PERSICO, JOSEPH E; CLINES, FRANCIS X JOSEPH E PERSICO (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



23 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: Washington Memo;
The Medicare Brawl: Finger-Pointing, Hyperbole and the Facts Behind Them

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30

 BODY:
The political discourse in the capital these days is dominated by charges and countercharges about Medicare. So are television commercials at certain times of the day, as Republicans and Democrats, home on a 10-day Congressional recess, try to sell their views to the voters.
Republicans maintain that their sole purpose is to protect Medicare from bankruptcy. They say Democrats are burying their heads in the sand. Democrats hold that Republicans want to gut the program, which provides health care for 37 million elderly and disabled Americans, to offset a tax cut for the wealthy. 
 The only matter the two sides agree on is that the next election may turn on how the public perceives what the politicians are doing about Medicare.
There is much truth to the claims of both parties. But there is also a good deal of hyperbole. What follows is an attempt to separate the facts from the political hot air.
ASSERTION The Medicare system is about to go broke.
Part A of Medicare, which pays for hospitalization, is financed through the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund. The money in the fund comes from a payroll tax of 2.9 percent of wages, divided equally between employers and employees.
Part B, Medicare's voluntary part, which covers doctor bills and other outpatient expenses, is financed by general tax revenue and monthly premiums paid by beneficiaries. Costs are rising rapidly in Part B, but, because of the financing mechanism, bankruptcy is not an issue.
In April, the trustees of the trust fund, who include members of the Clinton Cabinet and private citizens, reported that disbursements for Part A of Medicare would exceed revenue beginning in 1997 unless taxes were raised or spending was reduced and that the trust fund would run out of money by 2002.
The trustees have issued similar findings almost every year since 1980, giving an insolvency deadline ranging from 5 to 17 years. Congress has always raised taxes or adjusted benefits in plenty of time to stave off bankruptcy.
But the real problem is much more serious than the politicians on either side are letting on. It involves the long term. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that without changes in the law, the share of the Federal budget consumed by Medicare will grow from 11.7 percent this year to 18.6 percent in 2005.
And unless significant structural changes are made in the program before the second decade of the next century, when members of the baby boom generation begin to retire, Medicare will become a giant sponge soaking up so large a share of the Federal budget that little will be left for anything else.
One set of statistics illustrates the predicament in Medicare financing: Today there are 3.9 workers paying taxes for each person covered by Medicare. The ratio will fall to 3.1 workers in 2015, to 2.5 workers in 2025 and to 2 workers for each beneficiary in 2050, according to Government estimates.
ASSERTION Democrats are ignoring the problem.
In 1993, as part of President Clinton's deficit-reduction legislation, Congress took steps that extended the life of the trust fund for three years, from 1999 to 2002. Among the measures were limits in payments to hospitals and other providers of medical services, a repeal of the earnings cap on the payroll tax and an increase in the percentage of Social Security benefits to middle- and upper-income retirees that is subject to income taxes. Every Republican in Congress voted against this legislation.
The President's broader health care plan, which died last year in a Democratic-controlled Congress, would have delayed insolvency until 2007.
The budget the President submitted last February offered no changes in Medicare. Under pressure from Republicans, Mr. Clinton proposed this summer that spending in Part A of the program be reduced by $89 billion over the next seven years, enough, he said, to keep the trust fund in the black until 2006.
In contrast to Republicans, who have now offered a detailed prescription for changing the program, the President has never specified what cuts he would make to reach his goal.
ASSERTION Republicans do not intend to cut Medicare, just slow the rate of growth in spending.
The Government spent $178 billion on Medicare in the fiscal year that ended this weekend. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that without changes in the program, the annual cost would almost double by 2002, to $345 billion.
Put another way, the amount the Government spends per beneficiary would rise to about $8,400 in 2002 from $4,800 now.
The Republican plan is to hold down spending so that in 2002, the cost will be $244 billion and the cost per beneficiary $6,700.
So the amount actually spent would rise under the Republican plan. But cumulatively over the seven-year period, the rise would be $270 billion, or 14 percent, less than what would be needed to keep pace with inflation in overall health costs, the rise in the number of beneficiaries and the increased demand for medical services resulting largely from improvements in medical technology.
Using the same logic that says Medicare is not being cut, one would have to argue that the military budget was not cut from 1987, before the end of the cold war, to 1994. The Pentagon spent the same amount, $282 billion, in both years. But because of inflation, the same amount of money bought less in 1994. The number of troops, for example, declined to 1.6 million from 2.2 million, and the number of Navy fighting ships fell to 387 from 568.
By the same token, Medicare would be able to buy fewer services per beneficiary under the Republican plan.
ASSERTION The only reason large savings in Medicare are needed is to pay for the Republicans' tax cuts.
This is how the figure of $270 billion in Medicare savings was arrived at:
First, the Republicans decided that they wanted to balance the Federal budget by 2002. Then they agreed on a tax cut of $245 billion. Then they determined how much they could squeeze out of other Government programs. And $270 billion was what was left -- what was needed from Medicare to make the ledger balance.
Most Medicare reductions could indeed be dispensed with if taxes were not reduced. But that would assume that all the other cuts the Republicans want -- in welfare, agriculture, housing assistance, whatever -- were maintained.
Without any tax cut, projected Government spending over the next seven years would still have to be lowered by 18 percent across the board to meet the goal of a balanced budget by 2002. Even with the tax cut, the proposed savings in Medicare amount to 14 percent of what would otherwise be spent. Other Government programs are, on average, being cut more deeply.
The unassailable point is that large savings in Medicare are needed to help balance the budget.
ASSERTION The Republicans' tax cut would primarily benefit the wealthy.
Since the Senate has not considered the matter, the final elements of the Republicans' tax bill cannot be addressed. But the Senate is likely to adopt a scaled-back version of the tax measure that the House adopted in March.
That would mean, among other items, a tax credit to families with children (the House approved a $500 tax cut per child for families with incomes up to $200,000), a lower capital gains rate and more generous tax treatment of individual retirement accounts.
The tax credit would not be fully available to families with incomes below $25,000 or even $30,000, since they do not usually pay $500 in income taxes in the first place. About two-thirds of all capital gains (the profits made on investments) go to taxpayers with incomes above $200,000 a year, according to one accounting. And the better off taxpayers are, the more likely they are to invest in retirement accounts.
In addition, the Republicans are planning to trim the earned-income tax credit, a tax break for low-income workers.
So it is safe to assume that well-off taxpayers would gain most from the Republican tax plans.
ASSERTION Bankruptcy in the trust fund could be prevented with much smaller savings than the Republicans are contemplating.
Under the Senate plan, only about $90 billion of the $270 billion the Republicans want to save would be used to prevent insolvency in the trust fund that finances Part A. Republican senators say their measure would stave off bankruptcy until 2008 or 2009. A measure put forward in the House on Friday follows the same lines.
Most of the rest of the $270 billion, needed for budget-balancing purposes, would come from Part B, where bankruptcy is not an issue. Republicans would raise the premiums and (under the Senate bill) increase deductibles for the beneficiaries, and would also reduce payments to doctors, laboratories and others paid under Part B.
So in the short term, the trust fund could be made solvent for a few more years with less money. But that would ignore the long-term cost problems the system faces and would make it much more difficult to balance the budget.
ASSERTION The Government can save money by inducing retirees to choose less expensive health plans.
Private health care costs have hardly risen in the last couple of years, while spending under Medicare has continued to grow by more than 10 percent a year. The reason is that an ever-increasing fraction of workers in the private sector are enrolling in health maintenance organizations and other forms of lower-cost managed care, while Medicare remains basically a fee-for-service system.
Republicans hope to save money by luring more retirees into managed care programs. They are presenting this as additional choices for the elderly.
Most authorities doubt that much money can be saved this way, at least in the short run. There is one main reason, they say, why the Government will not be able to match the cost controls adopted in the private sector: Many workers who have recently enrolled in health maintenance organizations were forced into them by their employers. Republicans, in contrast, have promised that anyone on Medicare who wants to remain in a fee-for-service system can do so. As a result, the experts say, a far higher proportion of people in the work force are enrolling in managed care than the proportion of Medicare beneficiaries who will ever be persuaded to enroll.


GRAPHIC: To improve the financial health of the Medicare system, Congress has made many changes over the years. Here are some of the major ones.
 
1981 -- Raised medicare Part B deductible from $60 to $75 per year; set some limits on hospital and physician payments.
 
1982 -- Reduced medicare payments to hospitals by changing reimbursement rules; made Medicare a secondary payer to employer-provided insurance for workers age 65 to 69; limited payments to radiologists, pathologists, hospital-based physicians, and surgical assistants; pegged the medicare Part B premium at 25 percent of program costs for 1984 and 1985; required Federal employees to pay the medicare Hospital Insurance tax beginning in 1983.
 
1983 -- Created system to reimburse hospitals at a fixed rate for a particular diagnosis for Medicare-covered treatments.
 
1984 -- Set a 15-month freeze on Medicare payments to physicians; limited increases in payments to hospital and laboratories.
 
1985 -- Extended freeze on Medicare payments to physicians who did not accept Medicare's determination of allowable charges.
 
1987 -- Imposed 2 percent cut on overpriced procedures.
 
1989 -- Limited medicare hospital and physician reimbursement rates generally; froze most payments for durable medical equipment; overhauled system for making medicare payments to physicians by adopting a national fee schedule based on the time, training and skill needed to perform specific services; reduced reimbursement for certain physician services deemed overpriced.
 
1990 -- Reduced medicare payments to hospitals by delaying updates of prospective payment system and imposing a three-month freeze on hospital payments; delayed update of new national fee schedule for physicians; increased Part B deductible.
 
1993 -- Further limited payments to doctors, hospitals and other providers of medical services; repealed the maximum earnings cap on the payroll tax and increased the percentage of Social Security benefits of middle- and upper-income retirees that are subject to income taxes.
 
(Sources: Congressional Research Service and Health Care Financing Administration)
 
Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: Predicting Bankruptcy" shows report years with the predicted year that the Medicare's Hospital Insurance Trust Fund jwould be exhausted. (Sources: Congressional Research Service and Health Care Financing Administration)
Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Predicting Bankruptcy"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (84%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (84%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (84%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (84%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION MEDICARE (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); CORPORATE TAX (66%); BUDGET FORECASTS (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (55%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



24 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: To Last Hour, Agency Staff Is On the Job

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30

 BODY:
Someone on the staff put up a large sign in front of the building that read: "Unemployed Agency: Inquire Within." Confused by the homemade sign, several people wandered in on Friday, looking for job applications.
Inside, Paula J. Bruning, a 38-year-old analyst at the Office of Technology Assessment, was among the expendable workers in the Republican reshaping of Government as Congress closed her agency and dismissed its nearly 200 employees. 
 She finished a study on nursing home designs and carefully copied computer files onto diskettes for researchers elsewhere to continue her work. And she began worrying about where she might find her next job.
"I'm eating out less," she said, looking small in the empty office, "using the D.C. library more instead of buying books and meeting friends for coffee instead of dinner."
While Congress has yet to reach decisions about most Federal programs, it chose to shut down the agency that provided them with unbiased, understandable advice on many complex issues for the last 23 years, including nuclear proliferation, educational technology, medical research and telecommunications policy.
For most of the agency's workers, Friday was the last day on the job. Seventeen employees will stay on through January to close the offices and publish several dozen studies completed in the final weeks.
Closing the agency will save $22 million a year. Because the Office of Technology Assessment is included in the budget of Congress, the decision to shut the agency also gives Republican lawmakers greater political influence in their effort to abolish or break up other agencies, including the Commerce Department.
"Before Congress can have any credibility looking for spending cuts elsewhere in Government," said Senator Connie Mack, the Florida Republican who led the effort to eliminate the agency, "it must look in its own backyard to cut programs such as the O.T.A. We're on the verge of setting that example."
Senator Mack said that the agency merely duplicated work done elsewhere in Government and in private industry. Other Republicans contended that that the agency was so painstaking in preparing its reports that they sometimes appeared after the passage of legislation, instead of during the drafting process when lawmakers needed the information.
Roger C. Herdman, the agency's director, fought the agency's demise. He argued that most physicists, engineers, anthropologists and physicians advising Congress were from the Office of Technology Assessment and that those skills would be scattered if the agency disbanded.
Alan T. Crane, a 54-year-old nuclear proliferation analyst, questioned the wisdom of relying on lobbyists and other analysts from the business world for advice on technology policy. He attributed the decision to eliminate the agency to anti-intellectual sentiment in Congress.
"If you have all the answers you want," he said, "then you don't need analysis."
Most of the workers were not very bitter, perhaps because more than half of the agency's elite professional staff had job offers elsewhere. Many secretaries and other nontechnical workers, facing more bleak job prospects, were unhappy but resigned. All employees were receiving two months' severance pay.
"Who knows when the next job is coming," said Nanette L. Rushing, a 28-year-old secretary, "because everyone else is cutting."
Even as the agency's death was being plotted in a succession of votes in Congress this summer, the staff produced a record number of reports. "I've worked anywhere from 60 to 80 hours a week every week for the last two months, and there are at least 30 or 40 people signed in every Saturday," said Gregg Jackson, a 50-year-old specialist in educational technology, as he helped a colleague carry out her belongings.
Several dozen employees gathered in a conference room on Friday to watch videotapes of recent television coverage of the agency's closing. A few people booed when Mr. Mack appeared on the screen, but were quickly hushed by colleagues still trying to observe the agency's nonpartisan tradition, particularly in the presence of a reporter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT FEDERAL PROGRAMS (56%); OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) EMPLOYMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); PHYSICS (70%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); BUDGETS (70%); DINING OUT TRENDS (69%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (52%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (52%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH CONNIE MACK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



25 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: District Mayor Praises Work By Gingrich On City Issues

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30

 BODY:
This city is as dominated by one-party rule as any in the country. The registered Democrats in the nation's capital outnumber Republicans by more than 11 to 1, and even independents dwarf Republicans by nearly 2 to 1.
That has kept Republicans out of most significant elected offices since local residents were given the right to elect their own leaders more than 20 years ago under a plan known as Home Rule. But as the city tries to climb out of a financial crisis that led to the creation of a financial control board in the spring, it has been a Republican, Speaker Newt Gingrich, who has played a leading role in resolving the city's management and fiscal problems. 
 Acting as a buffer between House Republicans with ambitious ideas for reshaping local government and city officials who want to protect the limited autonomy they have, Mr. Gingrich has shepherded the factions along a path lined with political thorns.
House Republicans, many of them acolytes of Mr. Gingrich, are eager to flex their muscles of fiscal conservatism by reversing years of overspending and questionable management practices. They have proposed such bedrock Republican notions as eliminating all financing for abortions as a condition of the city's winning its 1996 appropriation from Congress, a $660 million subsidy for taxes that are not paid by Government agencies, foreign embassies and not-for-profit institutions.
Local officials, led by the Democratic administration of Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr., view such strings-attached rules as unfair incursions upon Home Rule, which Mr. Gingrich has told local leaders he would protect.
As host to representatives from both groups in two recent meetings, the last on Thursday, Mr. Gingrich has emerged looking like the city protector he promised to be.
This week, he convinced his Republican colleagues, including Representative James T. Walsh of Syracuse, chairman of the District subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee, to drop a demand to phase out rent control in the city. He also helped forge an agreement for the city to get a piece of the appropriation, $270 million, to pay bills until the measure is passed.
Mr. Barry, who has always cited insufficient financing from Congress as a major cause of the city's problems, was beaming after Thursday's session, calling progress under Mr. Gingrich "an excellent process."
"The Speaker," Mr. Barry added, "has been very helpful."
Some political analysts think they know why.
"Some Republicans are just hostile to the excesses of the D.C. government," said David A. Bositis, a senior researcher for the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a group in Washington that studies urban issues. "But others, like Gingrich, would like to use the city as something of a laboratory for their ideas about urban policy."
Tony Blankley, a spokesman for Mr. Gingrich, did not deny such a proposition, inasmuch as his boss, he said, "has always been an admirer of Franklin Roosevelt, who said, 'If one thing doesn't work, try something else.' "
"The most surprising thing I have found out about the Speaker is his sense of responsibility for the capital city," Mr. Blankley said. "I'm sure he could have let things continue and not had great difficulty letting the bill go through and getting 218 votes to pass."
Mark Plotkin, a political analyst for a local radio station, was not ready to concede that Mr. Gingrich should be hailed as a hero, describing him rather as "the maitre d' who gives you a table in the restaurant."
Looking to the final form of the appropriation bill, Mr. Plotkin, a staunch Democrat and a supporter of statehood for the city, said, "Let's see how good the food is."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: FEDERAL AID (US) CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICS (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); RENT CONTROL (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); BARRY, MARION (MAYOR); JANOFSKY, MICHAEL NEWT GINGRICH (91%); JAMES T WALSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



26 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-13
 
BRITAIN GOES METRIC
Today, throughout Britain, is what the authorities are euphemistically calling "M-day." M does not stand for mayhem. But judging from what you hear, it might just as well. 1
 

DEMOCRACY ON TRIAL IN KENYA
A political dissident's trial in Kenya is seen by many as a sign that President Daniel arap Moi may be sliding back from his commitment to democratic reform. 3
 
SOUTH AFRICAN DEBTORS FREED
South Africa's highest court has ruled that the imprisonment of debtors is unconstitutional, ending a system that sent thousands of people a year to prison. 4
 
NO REPRIEVE FOR CROATIAN SERBS
Two months after a Croatian offensive drove thousands of Serbian troops and civilians from the Krajina region, Serbian villages continue to burn. 6
 
TENSION OVER TIBETAN LEADER
This past summer, perhaps the most urgent matter for Tibetans has been the political standoff with Beijing over the latest reincarnation of the Panchen Lama. 10
 
ARAB-AMERICAN'S DEATH QUERIED
The United States has demanded an investigation into the death of a Palestinian-American grocer from Dallas who died in the custody of Palestinian police. 12
 
An Algerian shot by police was tied to terrorist acts in France. 6
 
The United States has picked a site for its office in North Korea. 9
 
A Senate report criticized a 1993 Army raid in Somalia. 13
 
National 14-28
 
THE TENNESSEE EXPERIMENT
Tennessee's experiment in managed health care stands as an example of the risks and opportunities of overhauling health care at the state level. 1
 
PANEL ADOPTS G.O.P. HEALTH PLAN
Republicans scored a major victory when the Senate Finance Committee approved their plan to make immense changes in Medicaid and Medicare -- changes that the President immediately condemned. 1
 
MILKEN BACK IN BUSINESS
After serving a prison term, paying a fine of more than $1 billion and being barred from the securities business for life, the junk bond financier Michael R. Milken is counseling corporate leaders as they make deals to reshape the media and entertainment industries. 1
 
DISPUTE OVER LOAN GUARANTEES
Democrats criticized a Senate bill that would cut Federal student loan programs by almost $11 billion and hand over nearly $2 billion in Federal funds to nonprofit agencies that protect banks against losses from student defaults. 18
 
WESTERN RENEWAL
The rebirth of an old hotel in Carson City, Nev., has also restored vitality to what was a skid row neighborhood near the state Capitol. 14
 
WITNESS BELATEDLY RECANTS
Twenty years after his testimony helped convict a man who now awaits execution, a witness in a murder case says he lied. 14
 
AN UNEXPECTED ALLY
As the District of Columbia, long a Democratic stronghold, tries to climb out of its financial crisis, it is a Republican, Newt Gingrich, who is playing a leading role. 17
 
GETTING POWELL TO TALK
The writer who worked with Colin L. Powell on his autobiography had to press the general to discuss his wartime service in Vietnam. 22
 
Metropolitan 29-36
 
BOARD REVERSES CHANCELLORVOTE
In a dramatic reversal that followed a day of maneuvering by Mayor Giuliani, the Board of Education voted to reopen its search for a new Chancellor of New York City's public schools, spurning the candidate a majority had chosen only 24 hours before. 1
 
Jerry F. Cammarata, a new Board appointee, cast the swing vote. 33
 
A LONG-AWAITED PAPAL VISIT
Sixteen years after his last trip to New York, Pope John Paul II returns for a four-day visit that will take him on a whirl of meetings, ceremonies and Masses with crowds of biblical proportions. 1
 
BUILDER'S FALL HALTS PROJECTS
When a Connecticut road builder abruptly halted work at 19 sites and was admitted to a hospital for the mentally ill, questions emerged over whether the lowest bid is always the best bid. 29
 
CHILDREN AS INTERPRETERS
With immigration at a postwar high in the United States, millions of children are thrust into awkward positions of power within their families. Serving as their parents' English interpreters, they also translate unfamiliar customs. 29
 
Obituaries 36
 
Alexander Clark, Broadway actor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (92%); TIBET (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOMALIA (79%); FRANCE (76%); CHINA (72%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%); 

CITY: CARSON CITY, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (92%); TIBET (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOMALIA (79%); FRANCE (76%); CHINA (72%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%); CARSON CITY, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WITNESSES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRISONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); STUDENT LOANS (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); MEDICARE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); SHOOTINGS (67%); MEDICAID (67%); TERRORISM (66%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (65%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (62%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (61%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); MURDER (57%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



27 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3675 words

HEADLINE: A Managed Care Cure-All With Flaws and Potential

SERIES: The Cutting Edge: Tennessee's health care revolution -- First of two articles.

BYLINE: By MARTIN GOTTLIEB 

DATELINE: NASHVILLE

 BODY:
In May 1993, as the Clinton Administration struggled to complete its doomed 1,342-page health care proposal, Tennessee's avuncular Democratic Governor, Ned McWherter, cajoled the State Legislature into approving a health care measure of its own.
It was a paragraph shy of one and a half pages long. 
 Yet it helped accomplish, for better and worse, the most sweeping revolution of a government-financed health care system in the nation.
By the start of 1994, less than seven weeks after gaining grudging approval from Federal Medicaid officials, the state transferred three-quarters of a million Medicaid recipients into private, managed care health plans. Breakneck speed aside, no other state had switched its conventional Medicaid population en masse into managed care.
More astonishingly, with roughly the same money its Medicaid program would have cost, Tennessee committed itself to becoming the first state to give health insurance to every uninsured person who wanted it. Today Tennessee extends that coverage, through managed care plans, to about 300,000 to 400,000 people -- the very people President Clinton had earmarked as the chief beneficiaries of his great lost cause.
As Republicans in Congress push hard to cut Medicaid's growth rate and allow states vastly expanded powers to design their own plans to provide health care to the poor, Tennessee's experiment, called TennCare, stands as an example of the risks and opportunities of health care overhaul at the state level.
With the possible exception of Hawaii, Tennessee's population now has the highest rate of insurance coverage in the country, which has changed hundreds of thousands of lives for the better.
But the price has been enormous. For huge numbers of Tennesseans, TennCare, with 1.2 million participants, has meant more, not less, bureaucracy. That has led to confusion and disruptions of care that, some say, have caused needless illness and, in at least one case, death.
And, faced with a budgetary crunch, the state has at least temporarily shut off the program to most uninsured people who are not now registered, and is proposing charging premiums to some of its poorest participants.
"My closest analogy is what's going on in Eastern Europe and Russia," said Leighton Ku, a senior research associate at the Urban Institute, a nonprofit research organization in Washington. "There's some incredible fiascoes, and there's incredible good things. It's like an engrossing story that I'd like to get to the end of."
When Jay Reeves, a contractor in the small town of Manchester, endured the saddest of personal sufferings -- his teenage son's death and his own near-fatal injury through carbon monoxide poisoning -- TennCare might have seemed his salvation. He was uninsured before the program was created. But at first his TennCare insurer, for no reason other than bureaucratic bungling, refused to pay for thousands of dollars in emergency medical bills.
Numerous calls and letters went unanswered for months until his lawyer, out of frustration, spoke to the president of the company. Eventually the bills were covered, but the struggle was draining. "Nobody seemed to care," Mr. Reeves said bitterly.
But when Alice Anderson, the assistant manager of a convenience store in Memphis, rushed her 7-year-old son Spencer to the hospital last year with a 105-degree fever, she found that, after some struggle, the more than $500 in bills were covered.
Previously uninsured, she and her husband, Jarrett, are still paying for Spencer's birth. "So," she said, "whatever hoops they make me jump through, I say, 'How high?' "
By forcing people virtually overnight into an untried program, the state unleashed a nightmare for doctors and hospitals, as well as patients, caught in the switch. Doctors in TennCare's main plan, run by Tennessee Blue Cross and Blue Shield, revolted at one point and left the program by the thousands, although most gradually returned.
Public hospitals and clinics that had long been the main medical providers for poor people are staggering because of reduced fees.
And accusations of hucksterism and fraud by managed care salespeople have only added to the difficulties.
Winston Griner, a doctor in private practice in Nashville who treats large numbers of poor people, has concluded: "This is the sale of health care. It's no longer the provision of health care."
So many doctors have balked at working in the program, he said, that "the people who helped train me, I can't get them to see my patients." He added: "Everything is disjointed, dysfunctional."
Yet Gordon Bonnyman Jr., a legal services lawyer and early TennCare advocate, says that for all the difficulties, the plan is one of the few in a period of retrenchment that actually expands services. "Conceptually, it was an extraordinary, maybe aberrant effort for government to make policy for the least powerful elements of the population at the expense of the people who always called the shots," he said.
The advent of TennCare helped cause political disruptions in Tennessee, where the Republican current in politics last year swept in a Republican Governor and two Republican Senators. Although a few states have tried to expand coverage, no state has made a commitment as broad as Tennessee's, and few if any have made such commitments at all during the current budget-slashing era.
There may be only one point on which there is consensus in Tennessee now -- a telling one for other states. As David Manning, the former state Commissioner of Finance and Administration who developed the program for Mr. McWherter, said, "If you're going to attempt to effect real change in the health care system, you'd better hold onto your hat."
 
The Catalyst
Rising Costs Spur A Revolution
 Just as it has in the rest of the country, the health care industry has boomed in Tennessee since the 1980's, even outstripping music as an economic force in Nashville, the state capital. The growth in the state's Medicaid budget since 1987 has been dramatic, with the annual figure rising to $3 billion from $848 million.
With no income tax, and deep resistance to any tax increases, Tennessee was hard-pressed to cope with those rising costs. In late 1992, the situation turned particularly grim when the Federal Government rejected the last of a string of financial gimmicks the state had used to finance much of its vast expansion. For Mr. McWherter, the Governor at the time, the choices seemed bleak: impose taxes or cut benefits in a way no state had tried.
Mr. Manning had other ideas.
He had long believed that the state was paying too much to doctors providing Medicaid services, doctors whose incomes usually were well into six figures. Also, he and other critics said Tennessee's hospitals, with occupancy rates in the 60 percent range, commanded fees from Medicaid that did not reflect their real bargaining position.
"Truthfully," Mr. Manning said, "there was enough money in the system if we allowed the market to allocate those dollars rather than a politicized system."
He and Mr. McWherter became convinced, as have politicians as varied as President Clinton and Speaker Newt Gingrich, that managed care was the solution.
Under conventional Medicaid, doctors and hospitals bill a state for individual procedures under a fee schedule fixed by the Government, which critics say invites unnecessary care and hospitalization.
In managed care, the state pays health maintenance organizations and similar groups a fixed fee per patient per month. If the cost of care rises above that figure, the managed care organization or its doctors must cover the difference, giving plans the motivation to negotiate reduced fees, from hospitals and specialists in particular, and to encourage primary care that is both cheaper and more medically advisable.
In designing TennCare, Mr. Manning was ruthless about keeping monthly fees at roughly two-thirds of the Medicaid levels. Expensive specialty services sustained the largest cuts. The average fee, which started out at just over $100 per patient per month, was so tight that several national managed care companies backed away.
The plan also charged a sliding scale of premiums and co-payments to those above the poverty line who were not eligible for Medicaid.
 
The Politics
The Quick Route To Major Change
 So harmful were the economics to the state's medical establishment -- a major contributor to the election campaigns of state legislators -- that Mr. McWherter and Mr. Manning adopted a stealth strategy intended to slip the $3 billion plan into being when the legislators were out of session.
Mr. Manning developed the plan with a small crew of allies and little public review. The Governor, a hulking, homespun man who is fond of recounting the story of his birth on the kitchen table of a country shack, spent the spring of 1993 selling the plan to legislators as the least of three evils, the other two being raising taxes and gutting Medicaid.
"What you had here was the irresistible force meeting the immovable object," Mr. Manning said. "What they feared more than the wrath of their special interest supporters was the wrath of the taxpayers and the Medicaid recipients."
By May, the Legislature had passed its one and a half page endorsement of Medicaid overhaul, leaving the details to the Administration. "I suggested it was a major reform in the implementation of health care delivery," Mr. McWherter said dryly. "I don't believe they all understood what a major reform it was."
The trick then was to get it up and running before the legislators returned the following January with their axes sharpened. "We knew it would be messy," Mr. Manning said of the hasty start-up, but he and his allies felt it was the only chance they had.
Under Federal law, to put the overhaul into effect they needed approval from Medicaid officials in Washington, who blanched at the speed with which a state with little experience in managed care wanted to get moving.
Bruce C. Vladeck, who directs the Federal Medicaid and Medicare programs, said, "It required an enormous leap of faith on our part with the kind of implementation schedules they had." Other states, like Oregon and Hawaii, had planned less ambitious programs with phase-ins. "A lot of people were real skeptical," Mr. Vladeck said.
With months passing without a decision from Federal health officials, Mr. McWherter recalled, frustration led him to pick up his telephone in early September. "I just called the President," he said.
Friends say Mr. McWherter's ties with Mr. Clinton seemed special, even more so in some ways than his relationship with Vice President Al Gore, who was born and bred in Democratic politics in Tennessee.
Mr. McWherter and Mr. Clinton knew each other for years as Democratic politicians from adjoining states. Some believe that Mr. McWherter may have even been a bit of a father figure for the President, and they remember him greeting Mr. Clinton as "Billy Boy" when he was Governor of Arkansas.
Also, Mr. McWherter recalled that the President had spoken favorably of the kind of changes Tennessee wanted. A few days after his call to Mr. Clinton, the Governor was invited to spend the night at the White House.
On Nov. 18, 1993, after a second visit by the Governor to the White House, TennCare was approved.
On Jan. 1, 1994, 10 days before the Legislature reconvened, TennCare shakily began operation, with 12 managed care companies, newly formed or girding for vast expansions.
On Jan. 2, 50,000 calls poured in to TennCare asking for help.
 
The Beneficiaries
A Safety Net, A Tangled Web
 A few days later, in the Nashville suburb of Ridgetop, James Frederick, 44, was walking across his salvage yard when a chemical compound bubbled from a 226-pound industrial fire extinguisher. Suddenly, the extinguisher shot across the yard, smashing his leg.
Mr. Frederick had never been able to afford insurance before TennCare.
Rebuilding his leg cost $100,000.
Without TennCare, said his wife, Martha, "I guess we would have had to sell everything."
In Nashville, Ginny Welsch, 36, a part-time news director for a radio station, used TennCare to pay for her first complete physical and mammogram. Before the program, she and her husband, a songwriter, could afford only catastrophic coverage with a $1,000 deductible.
But mixed in with stories like these are tales of confusion, outrage and exasperation -- the price in some cases of the strictures of managed care and in others of the sort of speedy start up that experts say may tempt other states with delicate politics and looming budget deficits.
Thousands of enrollees wound up in plans with which their doctors were not affiliated, and Medicaid recipients often bristled at having to receive permission to visit specialists and get hospital care.
Some of the plans lacked specialists and even hospitals in significant population centers. When Barbara Keck, 32, of Maynardville became pregnant with her third child this year, she was told by her managed care plan, Access Med Plus, that the closest obstetrician was 55 miles away. She also called five hospitals in nearby Knoxville, where she had had two other children under Medicaid, to see where she might have her baby delivered. None at that time were affiliated with the plan, leading her to plan her delivery two and a half hours away. Only recently has the plan established links with a Knoxville hospital and a nurse practitioner who is not so far away.
Lynda Johnson said that shortly after the program started Jackson-Madison County General Hospital in Jackson refused to treat her 6-week-old twin daughter, Crystal, because it did not accept TennCare patients. The baby had been born prematurely. Ms. Johnson, who was 27 at the time, said that a day after she was refused treatment, the baby died.
Although state and Federal officials found no wrongdoing by the hospital, Ms. Johnson's lawyer, A C Wharton, a board member of Methodist Hospital in Memphis, said her case showed the problems of quickly starting up a program that has clients who are often poorly educated.
"The state said they sent her a letter informing her of the care available, but we are not sure they did," he said, "and even if they did, we say that to the extent care was available to her, she was not fully informed of it."
Ms. Johnson is suing the hospital for $1 million and the state for $300,000.
Many in TennCare complained that medications they had taken for years were not covered and that they had to make do with inferior substitutes.
And many of the plans' billing systems were overrun.
One plan, Access Med Plus, which grew to 300,000 members from 30,000 within months and brought in roughly $300 million in state payments in a year, started without a computerized billing system, which caused delays of months and months in payments to already disaffected hospitals and doctors.
A survey by the University of Tennessee determined that while the uninsured liked the plan, half the former Medicaid patients found TennCare worse than its predecessor. Only 12 percent found it better.
For some, like Kathy Palmore, a 27-year-old veterinarian's assistant in Nashville who was found to have cervical cancer this year, simply enrolling in the program became an ordeal. She said it took "a week just to get through."
For others, like Tashia Carbins, 20, of Memphis, the waiting came at the doctor's office. Three and a half months pregnant when she visited her doctor last June, she found that the obstetrician he referred her to did not participate in her plan. When she tried to make an appointment with one of the few she could find who did, she could not get one until Aug. 29, when she was five and a half months pregnant.
Two weeks before that, she went into premature labor and was rushed to Methodist Hospital to prevent a miscarriage.
David Wilson, an articulate 17-year-old high school student from Nashville, cited a series of problems. David suffers from an intense psychological disorder that causes him to lose his bearings and sometimes turn violent.
Last year, he and his mother said, his doctors recommended that a hospital mental unit release him to a residential treatment center. But his TennCare plan, Tennessee Blue Cross, disallowed the referral, saying such treatment is covered only as a less costly alternative to hospitalization.
He returned home. Shortly afterward, the local pharmacy would not fill his prescription because his expensive drugs were not on the list authorized by his plan. His mother, Sharon, said she had to argue to get the 72-hour dose permitted under TennCare in disputed cases.
When David became ill again, his mother said, his doctor tried to gain approval for an emergency room admission. But, she said, the organization that handles mental illness problems for Blue Cross never returned the doctor's call. Blue Cross says it tried but could not reach the doctor.
It finally allowed the admission, but that was 10 hours after Ms. Wilson's initial call. By then, David, by his own account, had been hallucinating for hours.
For Dr. Sheldon Korones, who runs a nationally acclaimed center for low birth weight newborns at Memphis's public hospital, the Regional Medical Center, the most discouraging moment came when he tried to get a double hernia operation for 5-month-old Shicara Mona Price. The two pediatric surgeons in Memphis who had been affiliated with her health plan dropped out, saying that $100,000 of their bills had been rejected and the plan had taken too long to pay the remainder.
Infuriated, Dr. Korones went to the press, and the dollars poured in.
Shicara had her operation, but a sour feeling lingers for Dr. Korones. "I submit there's something wrong with a system that precipitates this kind of activity," he said.
 
The Outlook
Promising Signs, Many Skeptics
 With Mr. McWherter subject to a term limit under state law, a Republican, Don Sundquist, was elected Governor last year. In his campaign, Mr. Sundquist criticized TennCare's operation and garnered large donations from doctors. The doctors' political action committee also gave $225,000 to legislative candidates, contributing to 54 winners, some of whom defeated TennCare proponents.
But Mr. Sundquist, while pushing for changes, has turned into a TennCare supporter.
Rusty Siebert, who runs the program for his Administration, has two thoughts for other states: start more slowly and systematically, and cover the uninsured. This, he argues, saves money because it cuts down on expensive emergency room care, the cost of which is often covered by paying customers and large employers through higher hospital charges and insurance premiums.
Mr. Siebert argues that the most egregious foul-ups in Tennessee took place in the early months, and he cites accomplishments like a cut in the growth rate of the Medicaid budget to 5 percent or less a year and a sharp reduction in unnecessary hospital admissions and emergency room visits.
Sharon Wilson, whose 17-year-old son went through such struggles last year, said that to her surprise, "I've seen real changes, much more responsiveness, just in the past month."
But others are not sure. Mr. Vladeck, the Federal Medicaid director, said that although "by the end of the year, they'll have it on more stable footing," he was frustrated by the lack of long-awaited computerized data that he said were needed to evaluate the program.
Hundreds of thousands of recipients are not yet in plans where they have assigned primary care doctors who guide their medical care, a hallmark of the best managed systems. And a General Accounting Office report released last month raised questions about the finances of many of the managed care plans.
The state, for financial reasons, has already stopped enrolling most new uninsured people. It is proposing increases in premiums, including charges for the first time for people below the poverty line who were previously uninsured.
And many institutions that served the poor when few others did have undergone financial ordeals. Dr. Korones's hospital, the Regional Medical Center, has laid off 350 workers since TennCare and reduced its number of beds to 310 from 590. According to its general counsel, Charlotte Collins, the hospital spent $115.7 million last year treating patients who, for various reasons, still had no insurance.
At the Laurel Forks-Clear Forks Health Centers, in the state's depressed eastern Appalachian region, the medical director, David E. McRay, took a $27,000 pay cut and the other five doctors agreed to cuts of $10,000 to $17,000 to keep the operation going without cutting patient care. The National Association of Community Health Centers has sued TennCare in Federal court as a result of such disruptions.
It may be difficult for another state to replicate Tennessee's expansive commitment to the uninsured, even if it wanted to.
For one thing, years of budgetary sleight of hand had left Tennessee with more money, proportionally, coming into its Medicaid program than many other states, and it used those dollars to help fashion TennCare.
For another, the state virtually forced doctors and hospitals to participate in TennCare by making acceptance of program recipients a requirement for providers who wanted to participate in the Blue Cross health plan for state employees.
Doctors hated that provision, and many experts doubt that other states have the muscle to carry out something similar.
And in Tennessee itself, huge questions remain about the program. Marsha Gold, who completed a long study of the program for the Commonwealth Fund and the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, said TennCare was still so fresh that it is more an open book than a lesson plan.
But Mr. Siebert, the TennCare director, did have a prediction for other states looking to reshape Medicaid.
"You're in for exciting times, I promise you," he said.
NEXT: Questions of fraud and abuse.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ONE FAMILY'S SALVATION -- In 1994 an accident left James Frederick with a leg injury that required $100,000 in medical care. His wife, Martha, said the family would have been ruined without TennCare. (Slick Lawson for The New York Times); CAUGHT IN THE CHANGE -- Tashia Carbins had trouble finding an obstetrician under TennCare. With her is her daughter, Deandria. (John L. Focht for The New York Times); ARCHITECT OF AN OVERHAUL -- As Governor of Tennessee in 1993, Ned McWherter craftily engineered a major restructuring of health care in the state. (Slick Lawson for The New York Times) (pg. 16)
 
Graphs: "One Problem: Higher Costs" shows Tennessee's Medicaid budget from '69-'95 (estimate); "One Solution: Less for Doctors" shows number of private claims and TennCare allowance for various cares. (Sources: State of Tennessee Comptroller of the Treasury and Tennessee Blue Cross and Blue Shield) (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (99%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); TENNESSEE, USA (99%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SURVEYS AND SERIES; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION MEDICAID (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); INSURANCE (88%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); INSURANCE LAW (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (75%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); POISONINGS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (62%); CARBON MONOXIDE (60%); 

PERSON: GOTTLIEB, MARTIN BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



28 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 2; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Look Who's Saying Separate Is Equal

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
BACK in 1954, the segregationist doctrine of separate but equal appeared to have been slain by a nine-headed St. George known as the United States Supreme Court. In its landmark ruling in Brown v. Board of Education, the justices overturned what had been for 60 years the legal underpinning of America's system of racial separation.
Four decades later, though, a mixture of white resistance to integration, population shifts, an increasingly conservative judiciary and black impatience and political empowerment seem to be converting separate but equal from a dead dragon into a rising Phoenix. 
 The once discredited doctrine is making a comeback, embraced in varying degrees by such divergent figures as Louis Farrakhan, the head of the Denver school board and Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas.
 
'Desegregation Is Dead'
 In 1954 the Court declared that separate could never be equal; that segregation was meant to hurt blacks (and that it succeeded in doing so) no matter what the quality of particular segregated institutions. Last month, though, some black members of school boards in Denver and Kansas City, Mo., questioned whether trying to force whites to mix with black children was not only demeaning to blacks but unnecessary to achieve equal academic opportunities.
"I think desegregation is dead and should have died a long time ago, if the focus is on trying to have a physical mixing of the races," said Edward J. Newsome, a black member of the Kansas City school board.
While the 1954 decision addressed the impact on blacks in particular, modern supporters of desegregation argue that integration grants children of all races and ethnicities the opportunity to become more familiar with the cultures of other groups. But Mr. Newsome scoffs at the notion that black children benefit academically by rubbing shoulders with whites.
"For a person to believe otherwise simply is adhering to the notion that blacks are inherently inferior," he said, echoing Justice Thomas's opinion earlier this year in voiding a magnet school program to attract whites to the Kansas City public schools.
Whether couched in the oratory of black empowerment or driven by a view that whites will never agree to mix, more academics and policymakers of both races are turning away from integration as a goal and toward enhancing institutions that are predominantly black, by design or not.
"Enhancement is a philosophy of maintaining separate but equal," said Michael Meyers, executive director of the New York Civil Rights Coalition, who describes himself as a militant integrationist. "The strategy is to deal with the ghetto or strengthening ghetto housing or ghetto schools because they don't see integration as possible, fashionable or desirable."
And while the motivations may be different, the oratory often sounds oddly reminiscent of Southern segregationists.
 
Was Brown a Mistake?
 Writing in 1993, Professor Alex M. Johnson Jr. of the University of Virginia Law School said integration has failed blacks and that the Brown decision was a mistake. He said he could not have made those statements 20 or 30 years ago because they "would have been so far outside the mainstream that, frankly, they would have been unthinkable by an African-American scholar employed at a prestigious law school. Quite the contrary, the views expressed herein might have been more easily attributed to an avowed racist."
There is clearly a moral difference, though. The old legal doctrine was put in place expressly to subjugate blacks -- separate, in the South, was not equal. It was so much a part of a racist caste system that even if the state maintained segregated institutions or services of comparable quality -- and few schools, buses or even water fountains were -- the separation was still manifestly unequal. Claims of equality were a dodge to justify separation.
Today, things aren't quite so clear. Skeptics -- especially blacks -- who question integration are much more credible when they claim to have the interests of blacks at heart. Still, a bedeviling question arises: Have changing circumstances made the doctrine of separate but equal morally acceptable?
To be sure, the new respectability of separate but equal seems much more a phenomenon of black intellectuals and middle-class elites, many of whom work in integrated offices and send their children to integrated schools. Polls show continued support for integration among most blacks.
"I think I'm in the minority in terms of the leadership," said Mr. Meyers. "And if black leaders don't start speaking up, I'm going to be in the minority among the people."
Perhaps in no area of race relations is the new doctrine of separate but equal gaining more currency than in public education, as much out of a kind of cold-eye assessment of reality as out of ideology.
As whites have fled cities, many urban school populations are overwhelming black or Hispanic. Supreme Court decisions in the 1970's curbed efforts to bus children across county lines to achieve integration unless it was shown that there had been intentional discrimination.
Whites and Asians in Leonia, N.J., last week protested plans to merge their school district with the predominantly black Englewood district. And a wave of lawsuits has been filed maintaining that Denver, Minneapolis, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Seattle, Wilmington and Indianapolis have done all they could to foster school integration, and asking to be relieved of further obligations.
Meanwhile, about 70 percent of black children nationwide attend predominantly black schools, down only a bit from the 78 percent that attended such schools in 1968.
The current climate has caused not a few black leaders to contemplate alternatives. Some argue that the growth of a black middle class and the greater number of black elected officials have produced more economic and political resources to improve predominantly black schools in certain districts.
"Pre-1954 was separate and unequal," said the Rev. Aaron Gray, president of the Denver School Board, who is black. "The difference today is that you can step into an African-American school and you can see the same amount of resources that are provided to a majority Anglo school."
Even if equal resources materialize more broadly and, above all, lead to greater equality in test scores, a fundamental question remains: is segregation any less damaging to black children now than it was when the Supreme Court chucked it out 41 years ago?
Evidence suggests that children of all races benefit from attending integrated schools. Studies by Jomills Braddock, chairman of the Sociology Department of the University of Miami, indicate that black male graduates of integrated high schools are more likely to hold higher-status jobs and earn higher incomes than blacks who attended segregated schools.
 
Cities vs. Suburbs
 Given this, integrationists assert this is no time to give up.
"It's an approach that is expensive and time-consuming and not yet fully tried," said Arthur Benson, a lawyer who brought the suit to desegregate the Kansas City schools. "But the alternative is to give up and to consign a whole generation of kids to racially segregated opportunities that in the suburbs are enriched and the inner cities are impoverished. We will reap the effects of that if we allow it to happen."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An all-black segregated school in the 1940's. (Archive/Lass); A Kansas City, Mo., magnet school in the 1990's, specializing in technology. (Jeff Roberson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (92%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; BLACKS SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A CLARENCE THOMAS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



29 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: British Go Metric: Some Won't Yield an Inch

BYLINE: By JOHN DARNTON 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 30

 BODY:
Judy Bird, a 60-year-old pensioner, leaned over the butter counter at Sainsbury's on Victoria Street and in her understated way said what she thought: "Bloody nuisance. Why can't they bloody well leave us alone? We always come off worse when they muck around."
This Sunday, throughout Britain, is what the authorities are euphemistically calling "M-day." M does not stand for murder. Or mayhem. Or massacre. But judging from what you hear around town, it might just as well. 
 M stands for metrication.
Sunday is the day when Britain takes a giant step in formally relinquishing its beloved foot and pound and inch and ounce and converting to that new-fangled import from the French Revolution, the metric system.
As might be expected in a land where judges wear horsehair wigs from the 18th century, the Queen has a courtier called the Gold Stick in Waiting and opposing parties in Parliament are kept two swords' lengths apart lest they hurt each other, the changeover is being viewed as a foul Napoleonic wind blowing over from the Continent.
"Once again, one of our cherished British traditions sinks into the swamp of an integrated Europe," was how one of the more reflective Daily Express readers put it in a letter to the editor. "It's time we British fought back."
Fighting back is just what Vivian Linacre, a surveyor who heads a new group called British Weights and Measures Association, vowed to do on Friday afternoon. At a news conference in the basement of a modest club near the Marble Arch, Mr. Linacre promised a "massive campaign of public resistance" that would rival the Russian Revolution. "What we are about today, ladies and gentlemen, is to start another October Revolution -- that's exactly what we're doing."
Take away the portrait of the Queen above Mr. Linacre's head, substitute overalls for his blue pin-strip suit and mentally erase the rows of men harumphing "hear, hear" in the back, and one might have been transported back four score years to Lenin haranging the workers at the Finland railway station in St. Petersburg, a historian in the crowd thought.
Waxing indignant at criminal sanctions in the new law -- in theory a shop owner could be fined 5,000, or $7,700 -- Mr. Linacre predicted martyrs would come forward and multiply. He painted a grim picture of Britain a few years down the road with retailers behind bars for refusing to utter the words "liter" and "kilogram."
"They'll have to set up camps all over the country -- in the Scottish Highlands, the Midlands, everywhere," he thundered, wagging his finger in the air. "They'll be full of hundreds of thousands of small-business people."
The Department of Trade and Industry, which seems caught off guard by the public reaction, is at pains to point out that metrication has actually been under way here since 1972 (it was given 10 years to settle in at the time) and that what is happening on M-Day is simply a watershed.
Beginning Sunday, transactions involving liquid measures and linear measures will have to go metric, so goodbye gallon and yard. As far as weights, any food that is prepackaged will have to be in grams and kilograms. But loose food in bulk -- mostly fruits and vegetables -- will have a dispensation. It will not go metric until January of the year 2000, the idea being, presumably, that perhaps by then the public will learn to make the required mental conversion.
"What we're talking about now is mostly meat, poultry, fish, cheese, anything that comes prepackaged," said Fran Atkins, a spokeswoman for the department. "People don't realize that over 80 percent of what they buy in grocery stores right now is already metric. Funny enough, no one really notices."
And then there are what the department grandly calls "descriptive measures." These are special cases, so deeply embedded in public consciousness that they will be allowed to continue. "You can ask for a nine-by-five rug," she said. "The same with a five-foot bed or a 15 1/2 collar or a 29-inch inside leg or a six-foot bookcase. Also a 3 1/2-inch floppy disk and a 16-ounce steak." And yes, she added, with the air of someone who has fielded the question dozens of times -- McDonald's will still serve quarter-pounders.
The two greatest dispensations of all are the mile, which will remain king of the road, and the pint, as in what you order in a pub. There are certain things you just don't mess around with, unless you want Mr. Linacre's apocalyptic vision to come true.
"How would it sound to barge in and order a .568 liter?" asked Stephen Alambritis, head of parliamentary affairs for the Federation of Small Businesses, which opposes the conversion. "But the strange thing is if you order a shandy or lager top it's got to be ordered in metric." A shandy is part lager, part lemonade and a lager top is lager with lime juice.
"We English are very attached to our pint," Mr. Alambritis continued. "And that goes for the 'pinta' " -- pint of milk -- "on our doorstep. If you get it delivered, it's in imperial. But if you buy it in a shop, it's metric."
"It's utter madness," he said. "And these inconsistencies lead us to believe the ministers don't want it to succeed. They want to go back to Brussels and say, 'We tried it and it didn't work.' The whole thing has been low profile. They know it's an issue that could raise the hackles of Euro-skeptic M.P.'s."
The organization, which represents 75,000 businesses, took an informal survey and concluded that one-third knew nothing about the new law.
Abandoning imperial measurement has been especially hard for poets. One wrote to The Guardian that "music-wise, rhythm-wise, image-wise" phrases like the Merchant of Venice's .4536 kilograms of flesh or the River Alph "8.0465 kilometers meandering with a mazy motion" just weren't the same. The change will affect the measurement that always puzzles Americans, the stone, which is equivalent to 14 pounds, but this measurement is used largely for people's weight.
With Britain out of the box, that leaves only the United States, Liberia and Myanmar, formerly Burma, as non-metric countries. The United States made a pass at the metric system with a voluntary conversion act in 1975 but it didn't get very far. Occasionally there is the odd, old road sign giving distance in both systems.
In Britain, for better or worse, the changeover has become suddenly visible in the last few days. Large supermarket chains like Sainsbury's have posted metric-imperial conversion tables -- they look like thermometers lying on their side -- and this has caused consternation. It reminds many people of 1971, when Britain decimalized its currency, abandoning the archaic system of 12 pence to a shilling and 20 shillings to a pound.
To this day, some blame that conversion for the inflation that followed and feel something fishy was pulled. "I still think Wilson and his lads were up to no good in that one," said Mrs. Bird, the Sainsbury customer, referring to Harold Wilson, then Prime Minister. "Why should this be different? You can't tell me shops won't use it as a way to sneak through a price rise."
But shopkeepers themselves are distraught. "I can feel this cloth, I know it's 13 ounces," said John Davis, a partner in Tobias Tailors on Savile Row, rubbing a Prince of Wales check from a pattern book between his fingers. "How can I do that in grams? I can't. And 60 percent of our clients are American. If I give them their measurements in centimeters they'll just give me a confused look."
Greta Hutcheson, owner of Luc's delicatessen in Mayfair, said, "I feel resentment at the change." She found it hard to visualize servings of pasta, beans, salads and fish. "I can do the conversion in my mind but I don't get a mental picture of how big it is," she said. And a heavy investment in scales might have to go by the boards.
When it comes to the imperial system, which is based upon parts of the body (a foot was roughly the size of an adult's foot, an inch the end joint of the thumb), Britain is the mother country. In the year 1215, weights and measures were defined by royal decree, and they were spread by naval ships and the empire.
That makes its decline especially poignant. Not by coincidence did one protester, a shop owner in the south of England, erect a sign reading, "Rule Britannia -- in inches not meters, pints not liters."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supermarkets like this one in Richmond have posted metric-imperial conversion tables to help customers. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPE (90%); SCOTLAND (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; LIBERIA; MYANMAR; UNITED STATES; EUROPE; UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPE (90%); SCOTLAND (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); 

SUBJECT: METRIC SYSTEM; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION METRIC SYSTEM (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); LEGISLATION (72%); HISTORY (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); RETAILERS (60%); 

PERSON: DARNTON, JOHN VIVIAN LINACRE (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



30 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: No Appetite in Washington for a State Dinner Now

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30

 BODY:
When President Li Xiannian of China visited the United States a decade ago, Ronald Reagan got out of his hospital bed to greet him, gave a toast (in Chinese) to his "old friend" and held a formal state dinner in the White House, complete with lobster, veal tenderloin, Elizabeth Taylor and Robert Mitchum.
And Mr. Li was little more than a figurehead. 
 So it was not at all surprising that when President Clinton privately extended an invitation on Wednesday to President Jiang Zemin to stop by at the White House after he addresses the United Nations next month, the Chinese said no, not unless the invitation was for an official state visit.
Mr. Jiang has visited 10 countries as President, Foreign Minister Qian Qichen told a luncheon audience in New York on Friday, and "every one of them was a state visit."
For heads of state, the state visits at the White House are heady affairs, the closest the United States gets to looking royal.
With a state visit comes a red carpet at Andrews Air Force Base, an arrival ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House with a 21-gun howitzer salute, the flying of the national flag of the guest country on lampposts throughout official Washington, the playing of national anthems, the formal review of a color guard and the exchange of expensive talismans of friendship -- all capped by a formal White House dinner with good food and entertainment.
Emperor Akihito of Japan was apparently so impressed by the white ties, the hospitality and Mr. Clinton's haiku recitation during a state visit last year that he broke a rule of royal tradition and offered a dinner toast -- to "the health and success" of his hosts.
At a state dinner held by President Bush in 1992, President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia signed menus, sampled the caviar and waltzed with the wife of a prominent C.E.O. Mr. Yeltsin, the first non-Communist Russian leader to visit the White House since Grand Duke Alexis called on Rutherford B. Hayes in 1877, said his visit was "the best day of my life."
For China, a state visit would represent the most concrete sign yet that its relationship with Washington has recovered from the depths of two months ago, before the American human rights advocate Harry Wu was released from a Chinese prison and before Hillary Rodham Clinton addressed an international women's conference in Beijing.
But a high-profile state visit is out of the question, White House officials say. Mr. Clinton does not want to be photographed in a tuxedo toasting a man whose Government undertook the bloody suppression of the democracy movement in 1989 and who has failed to improve his country's human rights record ever since. That, his aides fear, might make Mr. Clinton look as if he was doing the same thing that he once accused Mr. Bush of doing: coddling dictators.
"We have offered the Chinese a visit in Washington because we want to give the Chinese something respectful, dignified, not looking as if we were shunting them aside," one senior Administration official said. "State visits are meant to cap a relationship that has come into its own and is going well. They are reserved for countries that are like close treaty allies."
Besides, Mr. Clinton does not share the same affinity for state visits as his two Republican predecessors, who seemed to be dressing up for one head of state or another almost every month. In his 33 months as President, Mr. Clinton has held only seven such visits.
Japan got one because an Emperor came calling. South Korea was rewarded for its steadfast loyalty as a strategic Asian ally, Morocco and Brazil for their close historic relationships with Washington. South Africa has President Nelson Mandela, who triumphed over apartheid. Ukraine got one after it gave up its nuclear arsenal, and Russia was awarded one when it was still in the honeymoon phase with Washington, before the invasion of the separatist region of Chechnya and before Mr. Yeltsin turned against NATO.
President Jacques Chirac of France has been invited for a state visit in November because, one senior Administration official explained, "He's a comer."
Deng Xiaoping, China's paramount leader but officially a mere Deputy Prime Minister when the United States and China established diplomatic relations in 1979, was feted with the Harlem Globetrotters, a gala at the Kennedy Center, a reception on Capitol Hill and a state visit in the Carter White House.
So how could Mr. Jiang, who is head of China's Communist Party, commander in chief of a three-million-member army and the head of state of a nuclear power with the world's largest population and fastest-growing economy, settle for less?
For human rights activists and a number of Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill, though, any invitation for Mr. Jiang to visit the White House is anathema.
"I will fight to the end a Communist leader coming to the White House," Mr. Wu said in an interview. "A state visit or not, what's the difference? Please don't let Jiang Zemin dirty the White House carpet."
Representative Nancy Pelosi, the California Democrat who has fought to revoke China's trade status with the United States because of its poor human rights record, said: "It would be more appropriate for this meeting to take place in New York. There's absolutely no justification for a celebratory welcome for Jiang Zemin. It certainly shouldn't be accompanied by a 21-gun salute and a formal celebration. And he doesn't deserve a parade."
Asked if she would go to a state dinner should there be one for him, Ms. Pelosi replied, "Let's put it this way: there's no chance I'd be invited to the White House." Then she paused, adding, "Those kinds of things are not important to me anyway."
Even an ordinary official working visit, which is what Mr. Jiang was offered, is not shabby. It comes with the same security from the Secret Service, hospitality from State Department protocol, lodging at Blair House, the President's guest house, and a salute with guns, although it is only 19 guns at the Pentagon. Even the flags on Pennsylvania Avenue probably would not pose too much of a problem.
The main difference is the meal; instead of a formal dinner, Mr. Jiang would only get a working lunch.
Asked at the daily briefing on Friday whether the two sides had made any progress on narrowing their differences on salutes and menus, Nicholas Burns, the State Department spokesman, admitted, "I really can't tell you whether we're heading north or south on this issue."
But, Mr. Burns added, "I will say that what the important thing is not the flags and the guns and all that -- the important thing is not the trappings. It's the substance, and it's the inclination to have a meeting regardless of the trappings."
But Mr. Qian had indicated that was not enough when Mr. Christopher extended the formal White House invitation in New York on Wednesday.
Under Secretary of State Peter Tarnoff and China's Vice Foreign Minister, Li Zhaoxing, were given the job of seeking a compromise. This afternoon, after three days of intense meetings, Mr. Tarnoff and Mr. Li finally gave up on a Washington visit and agreed in principle that the two Presidents would have to meet in New York.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Washington, where fuss equals status, talks are under way about a Chinese visit. Deng Xiaoping examined a hat in Texas in 1979. (United Press International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JAPAN (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); WOMEN (63%); ARMED FORCES (52%); AIR FORCES (52%); 

PERSON: JIANG ZEMIN (PRES); SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (92%); BILL CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



31 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Carson City Journal;
>Old West Is Renewed In a Corner Of Nevada

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: ARSON CITY, Nev.

 BODY:
By the time Robert C. McFadden bought the St. Charles Hotel in 1993, the once-grand 19th-century inn had become a civic embarrassment -- the unsteady center of a skid row neighborhood of bars and $35-a-week flophouses perched directly across Carson Street from the magnificent, silver-domed Nevada State Capitol.
And Mr. McFadden's plans to renovate with an Old West theme got a modern-day jolt the night before he bought the hotel, when an irate woman pumped nine bullets into the front door of the building in a tussle with her estranged husband, killing no one but adding to the renovation bill. 
 "We wanted the Wild West," Mr. McFadden said. "Not that wild, though."
But today the maroon-brick hotel is exquisitely redone, with Western and Indian motifs, and is the anchor to a few city blocks of restaurants, antique shops and even a tea room. Lawmakers who would not cross the street a few years ago now book rooms for the entire legislative session.
And, to the delight of city officials here, the area has been transformed from a place of blight, one of the most unattractive neighborhoods within sight of any statehouse in the nation, into a modest attraction that lures shoppers and tourists from Reno and Lake Tahoe, both a half-hour or so away.
"It was an eyesore, and every time the legislators came to town it was, 'Hey, Marv, when are you going to clean up the area?' " said Carson City's Mayor, Marv Teixeira. "So we're not Carmel-by-the-Sea yet, but we sure look a lot better than we did a few years ago."
The rebirth of the hotel has brought the Frontier Antiques Mall and other stores to the area, replacing saloons like Jungle Jim's and a dilapidated apartment building where the Federal Bureau of Investigation once found a fugitive on its 10 Most-Wanted List hiding out.
"That bar on the corner was a wino hangout," said Jack Stovall, owner of Nevada Jack's, an antiques store that sells everything from old Elvis records to old mining equipment. "Now it's a first-class restaurant. This area has been totally turned around."
Mr. McFadden, 45, who was born and reared in Southern California, came to this area near the eastern slope of the Sierra Nevada 22 years ago, when his brother was working in Lake Tahoe. "It just felt like a real Western town," Mr. McFadden said. "I got a real kick out of the place. So I stayed."
Well into his career as a real estate broker, selling houses and mobile homes in the area, Mr. McFadden bought the three-story, 27-room St. Charles for $750,000. He has since spent about $300,000 in renovations, with $36,000 of that paid with money from a city development agency.
The hotel itself had a checkered history. When it opened in 1862, a reporter from California, less than thrilled to be on assignment in the remote territory, pronounced it one of the few good things in "a land of silver and gold mines, of dust, of loose six-shooters and bad whisky, of dirty brown hills and sage brush," according to his account in The Sacramento Daily Union, now framed on one of the walls at the hotel.
But the hotel eventually went into a long decline and a series of name changes. By the 1920's, knowing locals would avoid eating there, having found that the chicken listed on the menu was more than occasionally replaced by jack rabbit, purchased by the chef at 25 cents an animal from local boys with slingshots.
Carson City, with a population of 45,000, does not exactly have a rock-solid identity of its own. There is no evidence that the man for whom it was named, the scout Kit Carson, ever even set foot here. And many people seem resigned to living in the shadow of Reno, the booming tourist city 30 miles to the north.
"When we travel and tell people we're from Carson City, they don't even know where that is," said Karen Ouellette, a lifelong resident and owner of the Sierra Rose florist, a new business just behind the St. Charles in a building that had been an auto body shop. "They don't even know it's the capital of Nevada."
But Mr. McFadden says he thinks Carson City could have a great future as part of a tourism circuit that would stretch from the gambling casinos of Reno, through old mining and railroad towns to the shore, and casinos, of Lake Tahoe.
Carson City has developed a downtown tour, marked with a blue line along several blocks of sidewalks, highlighting attractions like the mansion used in John Wayne's last film, "The Shootist"; the Governor's Mansion; the Ferris Mansion, home of the inventor of the Ferris wheel; the Nevada state museum, and the Carson Brewing Company, founded in 1864.
"The Old West reappears around every corner," says a city brochure describing the trail. But the idea of linking Carson City's sights to those elsewhere in the region does not seem to have caught on yet.
"We should have weeks worth of tourism for people who come here," Mr. McFadden said. "We've got a lot to play with, but everyone in Lake Tahoe is kind of holding their cards close to their chest. They don't think regionally, but we've got a gold mine of history to show off."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert C. McFadden's St. Charles Hotel in Carson City, Nev., has come full circle. When it opened in 1862 it was a jewel in the area, but later it fell into such disrepair that people avoided it. Now, the building that Mr. McFadden bought in 1993 is leading an economic revival in Nevada's capital city.; The St. Charles Hotel as it appeared in 1862, when it was Carson City's stagecoach stop. Today's advertising literature for the hotel says that in the old days, meals were 25 cents and lodging was 25 to 50 cents. (Photographs by Don Preisler for The New York Times)
 
Map of Nevada showing location of Carson City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CARSON CITY, NV, USA (99%); RENO, NV, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: ST CHARLES HOTEL (CARSON CITY, NEV) ST CHARLES HOTEL (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST CHARLES HOTEL (CARSON CITY, NEV)

GEOGRAPHIC: CARSON CITY (NEV); UNITED STATES (99%); NEVADA, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CARSON CITY, NV, USA (99%); RENO, NV, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HOTELS AND MOTELS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL RESTAURANTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (73%); CITIES (73%); MOBILE HOMES (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (66%); MAYORS (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



32 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1761 words

HEADLINE: Builder's Fall Halts Projects In Connecticut

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Sept. 30

 BODY:
For four years, construction executives watched with dismay as George A. Tomasso again and again underbid them on state projects, transforming a start-up company into the largest road and bridge builder in Connecticut.
While competitors grumbled privately that something was amiss, state officials brushed aside complaints and said the law was the law: contracts must be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder. 
 But in recent weeks, as Mr. Tomasso abruptly halted work at 19 sites and was admitted to a hospital for the mentally ill, questions have emerged over whether the lowest bid is always the best bid and whether, in times of budget cutting, officials might be willing to overlook a contractor's problems if he were saving the state money.
The collapse of the George A. Tomasso Construction Corporation has left dozens of subcontractors with at least $13 million in unpaid bills and led to the layoffs of hundreds of workers. In addition, work on some of the state's busiest highways has been delayed, jeopardizing six projects on which paving needs to be be completed before winter.
Some elected officials wonder why Mr. Tomasso's surprisingly low bids did not cause greater alarm sooner.
Company insiders knew something was amiss. Stephen Calabro, a former bid estimator for Tomasso, pointed to one project that the state expected to cost $92 million. Mr. Tomasso's staff said the cost would be at least $85 million, but when told that figure might not insure winning the contract, Mr. Tomasso bid $68 million. The next lowest bid was $103 million.
"George just came up with a number out of the blue," Mr. Calabro said. "He wanted that job, and he didn't care what he got it as."
Nor was it a secret that Mr. Tomasso's behavior was erratic. In 1992, he went to a competitor's office and dismissed everyone, saying he had bought the company. He was taken away in an ambulance.
In the first official challenge to the Transportation Department's handling of the Tomasso situation, State Senator William A. Aniskovich, a co-chairman of the legislature's Transportation Committee, said his committee would hold hearings in February to examine why the state continued to award contracts and pay millions of dollars to Mr. Tomasso when there was evidence his company was overextended.
"This could have been avoided," he said. "The economics of what was happening should have been clear to anyone who took a look at the big picture."
The state's failure to act sooner probably has political roots, Mr. Aniskovich added. Many construction executives say that Mr. Tomasso received special treatment from the administration of Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. after hiring a close Weicker associate, John Doyle, as a consultant in 1991. Mr. Tomasso also held a fund-raising dinner for Governor Weicker several years ago and gave all his employees copies of Mr. Weicker's autobiography.
But state officials say that Mr. Tomasso was not shown any favoritism, adding that Mr. Tomasso's low bids saved the state $58 million. They point to his company's history of excellent work, and to the state's caution last February, when, as it became clear the company was not paying its subcontractors, the department refused to accept bids on seven contracts he would have won.
They add that a bonding company is obligated to see that Mr. Tomasso's projects are finished at the price he bid and that his subcontractors are paid.
"One way or another, the jobs will be completed and people paid," said Arthur W. Gruhn, the Transportation Department construction administrator in charge of the Tomasso situation. Already, some subcontractors have received checks, and work is expected to resume this week; thus the projects, which are largely ahead of schedule, will have suffered "minimal impact," he added.
 
Life in the Shadow Of a Famous Family
 Yet, some construction industry experts are skeptical about when work will resume, and Mr. Gruhn acknowledged that the longer the delay, the greater the difficulties.
The rise and fall of George Tomasso is shrouded in mystery.
Mr. Tomasso, 68, comes from one of the state's pre-eminent construction families, yet seems to have spent most of his life in its shadow. His older brother, Angelo Jr., is known in their hometown, New Britain, for his philanthropy. His nephews are prominent developers.
By comparison, George Tomasso is considered something of a recluse.
Angelo Jr., George and two other brothers took over their father's successful business, Angelo Tomasso Inc., in 1949, with Angelo Jr. as president and George as treasurer. The company was sold in 1972 over George Tomasso's objections, several people in the construction industry said. After signing a pledge not to compete in the Connecticut construction industry for many years, they added, he moved to Florida.
While Angelo Tomasso Jr. prospered with the new company and today is chairman of the business that grew out of the sale, Tilcon Connecticut, George Tomasso reportedly pursued his own investments. Then in 1985, he suddenly reappeared in Connecticut.
Mr. Tomasso could not be reached for comment after he was hospitalized, his relatives did not return repeated calls and his lawyers declined to comment.
But Mr. Tomasso's business strategy speaks for itself -- submit the low bid at any cost -- and he aggressively began to pursue it in the early 1990's, when Governor Weicker took office. Since Jan. 1, 1991, he has been awarded 46 contracts for $432.1 million, more than four times his total in the previous five years.
At present, Mr. Tomasso's 19 projects account for about 25 percent of the Transportation Department's construction work.
To corner so much of the market, Mr. Tomasso bid on all jobs regardless of size, and routinely came in 10 percent lower than his nearest competitor, a gap that many in the industry found stunning.
The most remarkable instance was Mr. Tomasso's $68.3 million bid on Sept. 25, 1991, to widen the Founders Bridge between Hartford and East Hartford. The next lowest bid was $103.9 million.
"It was a slap in the face," said a competitor, who refused to be identified for fear of angering the Transportation Department. "There was no way anyone could come in and do the Founders Bridge that much lower than the second, third and fourth bidders. It's like he was saying, 'You folks don't know what you're doing and I'm the big cheese -- I'm going to show you.' "
 
Allowed to Bid, While Overextended
 Mr. Tomasso qualified for a number of bids though his company was already extended beyond its financial capacity rating. In a highly unusual but legal arrangement, he masso backed six jobs with his personal fortune and successfully bid for the projects as a joint venture between his company and himself.
At the same time, Mr. Tomasso cultivated an image of being politically connected. Along with hiring Mr. Doyle, he held a fund-raising dinner for Mr. Weicker at a West Hartford country club and shared a table with the Governor. This year, he bought copies of Mr. Weicker's autobiography, "Maverick," for all his employees, one laborer said.
It now appears that these actions were not simply shrewd business or political maneuvers, but the moves of a psychologically troubled man.
In the construction industry, Mr. Tomasso had a reputation for being unstable, and in one incident in May 1992, he stormed into the office of a competitor, Balf/Savin in Newington, telling employees that they were dismissed and that he had bought the company. He had not. The police were called, and an ambulance took him away, Edward Gilligan, a Balf/ Savin executive, said.
This month, the probate court declared Mr. Tomasso "incapable of managing his affairs and incapable of caring for himself by reason of impairment." Court records showed he was at the Institute of Living, a hospital for the mentally ill in Hartford, and had refused to speak to a court-appointed lawyer.
Mr. Tomasso's health difficulties seem to coincide with his company's growing problems, and with the election of John G. Rowland, a Weicker foe, as Governor.
Because of his low bids, Mr. Aniskovich said, it appears that Mr. Tomasso was relying on a pyramid scheme in which he used money from new contracts to finish the work on old ones.
Mr. Calabro, the estimator, left the company in March 1994, when suppliers required him to pay in advance, even for purchases under $100. "I saw the end nearing and didn't want to get caught in the situation he's in now," Mr. Calabro said.
Over the last few years, Mr. Tomasso often violated state laws requiring prompt payment of subcontractors. Such lapses led the state to deny him any new contracts this year.
Since then, Mr. Tomasso fell even further behind in his payments to subcontractors and suppliers, and at the end of the summer, the bond company, faced with 70 claims from subcontractors, asked the state to cease payments for the 19 projects.
 
State Calls a Halt After Bills Pile Up
 On Sept. 8, the Tomasso company halted work, and the next day issued a release saying, "As the department is our sole client and source of income, our only recourse was to suspend all field operations."
Since then, the National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pennsylvania, the bond company, has sued Mr. Tomasso and his company for millions of dollars.
In a time of fiscal restraint, it is easy to understand the allure of unusually low bids, and Mr. Tomasso, with his background in the construction industry, was viewed by some as a civic-minded maverick breaking the stranglehold that a few companies had on the industry.
While his bids may prove to have been unrealistic, the head of a contractors association in another state remarked that contractors have been known to take innovative approaches to jobs to achieve savings that others thought impossible. And sometimes, a contractor may choose to take a loss on a job.
For these reasons, assessing a low bid is a thorny proposition, one that poses political risk for state officials who can be accused of illegally rejecting the least expensive offer, particularly when it has been guaranteed by a bonding company.
Mr. Aniskovich recognized these complications, but he felt the Tomasso situation was pushing the limits.
"Is it good for the state that George won some bids by lowballing?," he said. "Yes, it is. But is it good that 19 contracts later we have 350 people laid off from his company, subcontractors suffering and the prospect of higher costs?
"Of course not.It's a matter of degree."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "RISE AND FALL: Road Builder's Empire" shows the sites in Connecticut where the George A. Tomasso Construction Corporation had contracts, and lists the bid amounts. (Source: Connecticut Department of Transportation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOMASSO, GEORGE A, CONSTRUCTION CORP ANGELO TOMASSO INC (67%); GEORGE A TOMASSO CONSTRUCTION CORP (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOMASSO, GEORGE A, CONSTRUCTION CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; CONTRACTS; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); STARTUPS (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (70%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (69%); FUNDRAISING (68%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (56%); BUDGET CUTS (55%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN; TOMASSO, GEORGE A GEORGE A TOMASSO (98%); LOWELL P WEICKER JR (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



33 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: China: The Squall Passes

 BODY:
After a shaky summer, America's relations with China are getting back on track. Last week, Beijing backed off from its plans to sell nuclear reactors to Iran, a deal that carried serious proliferation risks. A little earlier, China returned its Ambassador to Washington after a long protest absence and approved the nomination of former Senator James Sasser to be America's next Ambassador in Beijing. Agreement has not yet been reached on a summit meeting between President Clinton and China's President, Jiang Zemin, but is expected soon.
The euphoria that once characterized United States-Chinese relations is not likely to return soon. Too much divides the two countries, on human rights, proliferation, trade and other issues. But given China's strategic and economic significance it would be a calamity for Washington and Beijing to become adversaries again. The Clinton Administration managed the crisis skillfully, with Secretary of State Warren Christopher leading the way. 
 The quarrel erupted last spring after the Administration, bowing to Congressional pressure, issued a visa to Taiwan's President, Lee Teng-hui, so he could visit Cornell University, his alma mater. But the Administration resisted Beijing's contentions that the visa was the only issue between the two countries and that the United States was clearly at fault.
The roots of recent tensions go back to China's crushing of its democracy movement at Tiananmen Square, its sales of missiles and other advanced weapons in violation of understandings with the United States, and its offensive trade practices regarding prison labor and copyright piracy. For the past year or more, these problems have been aggravated by political maneuvering in Beijing anticipating the death of Deng Xiaoping.
On Taiwan, the original joint communiques and accompanying American legislation governing this issue do not clearly preclude private visits by top Taiwanese officials.
Thus the Administration was right to hold its ground on Taiwan, neither apologizing nor promising not to issue a repeat visa to President Lee. Instead, Washington again acknowledged that the issue was a sensitive one for China and affirmed that America's policy as embodied in the joint communiques remains unchanged.
China, realizing it had pushed things to a dangerous brink, stepped back. In return, Beijing hopes President Jiang will be invited for a state visit to Washington. The Administration understands, however, that what is needed now is not pomp and ceremony but working talks.
These talks need to deal with reports of recent Chinese missile sales to Pakistan and to review enforcement of recent agreements on copyright and prison labor. Washington must also convey its concern over menacing Chinese military exercises in the South China Sea and near Taiwan. The Administration should also continue to speak out in support of the human rights of Chinese citizens, as First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton did at last month's Beijing women's conference. In the past, China suggested that if human rights discussions were not linked to threats of retaliatory sanctions, it might pay them more heed.
Relations between Washington and Beijing are still delicate. The Clinton Administration managed to stabilize them without yielding on important principles, not a simple piece of diplomacy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); TAIWAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (50%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (97%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); TAIWAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (50%); BEIJING, CHINA (97%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); COPYRIGHT (74%); APPROVALS (72%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); WOMEN (69%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); PRISONS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



34 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: NYC;
Give Yankees A Government They Deserve

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
HERE'S an idea making the rounds this final day of the regular baseball season:
Condemn the Yankees. 
 Not, as usual, by moaning about the relief pitchers or railing against the latest affront by George M. Steinbrenner 3d of Tampa, Fla., the club owner. Available evidence suggests that Bronx cheers by themselves wound George M. Steinbrenner 3d of Tampa, Fla., about as much as they do, say, Saddam Hussein.
What some people talk about instead is legal condemnation, having the city and state take over the Yankees -- players, pinstripes, pennants and all -- just as they might lay claim to any private enterprise deemed essential to the commonweal.
Naturally, the present owners would be compensated at fair market value, and that could involve a few hundred million municipal dollars. But that way, at least, New York would designate the Yankees a vital resource, not something ripe for export to New Jersey. And then it could sell its holdings, or simply turn over management, to private investors more committed to keeping the club in the South Bronx than George M. Steinbrenner 3d of Tampa, Fla., a man whose literary tastes seem to run to Ogden Nash. ("The Bronx? No thonx.")
"I BELIEVE we can do it," says Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx Borough President. The problem at Yankee Stadium is the team's owner, he contends, not the traffic flow or neighborhood crime. So change owners.
"Would the City of New York be a worse manager of the Yankees than Steinbrenner?" asks Kent Barwick, president of the New York State Historical Association, another condemnation advocate. "Frankly, I think it would be a tossup."
Now, both these men know that theirs is a hard row upstream. The Yankees, who insist they have made up their minds about nothing in the future except getting into the playoffs, would no doubt go to court, and so might Major League Baseball. Their lawyers would know that gambits akin to the Ferrer proposal failed to keep football teams in Baltimore and Oakland. Besides, neither this Mayor nor this Governor seems like a man interested in scaring up ways for government to go into the baseball business.
But if nothing else, skygazing about the legal possibilities can be a pleasant diversion for the many Yankee fans appalled by the unhappy choices handed them thus far.
The latest chatter is about a new Yankee ballpark for the far West Side of mid-Manhattan. Price: a billion dollars plus. That strikes many civic-minded New Yorkers as a dubious spending priority for a city that thinks switch-hitting means battering basic services left and right. It is tempting for some of them to say that if George M. Steinbrenner 3d of Tampa, Fla., really wants to move his club to the New Jersey Meadowlands, let's kick him down the stairs right now and tell him good riddance. ("The Yonx? No thonx.")
While that may salvage a bit of municipal pride, reality suggests that the city cannot afford to be so cavalier.
 WILL New York be less of a great city without the Yankees? Doubtful. Will its economy go straight down the tubes? Same answer. But losing the world's most fabled sports franchise would be an unbearable spiritual blow, especially for the South Bronx, struggling to rebuild and hardly in need of one more reason to feel abused.
Try telling Max Choi he can live without the team. Three months ago, unschooled in Yankee ways, Mr. Choi bought a hardware store on Gerard Avenue, a block east of Yankee Stadium. Suddenly, he discovers that the team may pull up stakes for a sweetheart deal somewhere else.
Is he nervous? "Sure I am," Mr. Choi says, leaving a detailed explanation to Louis Adorno, who cuts hair a few doors away.
"This neighborhood would go right down if the Yankees go," Mr. Adorno says. "Why do you think they give us the cops here, and maintain the train station? You think that'll continue if the Yankees leave? People will move out. Nobody wants to live in a rundown area."
His solution is for the city to try hard to keep the Yankees where they are, but not at any price. That's Mr. Ferrer's point, too. Legally condemning the Yankees and fixing up the stadium area would save the team and cost far less than building a new ballpark, he says.
It would also mean that the interests of George M. Steinbrenner 3d of Tampa, Fla., are not more important to the city than those of Max Choi of Gerard Avenue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); TAMPA, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); TAMPA, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); LAWYERS (73%); MAYORS (73%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



35 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 8; Page 8; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: '95-'96 N.H.L.: ON HOCKEY;
Add Lemieux to the List of Great Comebacks

BYLINE: By Joe Lapointe 

 BODY:
Mario Lemieux's return to hockey is the third such event in 1995, the Year of the Sports Comeback.
The first involved Michael Jordan, the basketball star, who missed more than a season and ended up playing minor league baseball. Maybe it was a coincidence, and maybe it wasn't, that he changed sports during a public examination of his recreational gambling hobby. 
 The second involved Monica Seles, the tennis star, who needed more than two years to recover from physical and psychological wounds after being stabbed in the back by a spectator in Germany. The assailant was never even sentenced to a prison term.
Compared with the uproar over those comebacks, Lemieux's return seems almost routine. He is back with the Pittsburgh Penguins after more than a season on the shelf following recurring back problems and his battle with Hodgkin's disease.
His timing is good. The season he missed was shabby, delayed for 15 weeks by a labor lockout and completed with too many dull games in too few rushed nights.
This one promises to be better, thanks to labor peace and to new officiating policies that will favor talented superstars such as Lemieux. In the seasons before his sabbatical, Lemieux was a frequent critic of the holding, hooking and interference that allowed mediocre players to nullify their betters.
Coaches taught these techniques and referees gradually stopped penalizing many of them. It became a quality-of-life issue, like the gentle extortion of the squeegee men and panhandlers who have decorated the sidewalks of New York. Such behavior, if tacitly allowed, begins to seem almost normal.
In his harshest remarks, Lemieux once called the N.H.L. a "garage league," a description accidentally changed in some accounts to "garbage league," which also seemed to fit his evaluation of his work environment.
Now, the league promises to obstruct the obstructors. Having squandered its marketing momentum last season, the promoters seek a faster, more sleek, more slick show to sell over the Fox Network and the ESPN networks and in Miami and Anaheim and in 24 other markets.
Usually a reluctant celebrity, Lemieux might not be the ideal superstar/salesman for the N.H.L. of the late 1990's, but he might be the best available. The league really has no one with the charisma of Jordan and the exuberance of Seles. It is almost as if hockey is searching.
Wayne Gretzky, the 34-year-old legend whose sublime skills are waning on a bad Los Angeles team, has lost a little luster in recent seasons. He seems weary of the acclaim and attention, hiding out in Hollywood. If he's not yet Norma Desmond, he's borderline Garbo.
Eric Lindros, the young Philadelphia star who last season won his first Hart Trophy as the league's most valuable player, is still wary of the spotlight and may never warm to it. Having resisted exploitation as a teen-ager in Canadian junior leagues and the double-dealing of the first professional team that drafted him, he sometimes comes across as cynical beyond his 22 years, a suspicious and guarded man-child who looks for the hook in every question.
The Russian stars such as Pavel Bure, Sergei Fedorov and Alexander Mogilny can dazzle on the ice. But when it comes to dealing with the news media and, by extension, the fans, their cultural backgrounds don't help. Sometimes, they hide behind their language barrier.
Having grown up in a totalitarian system where reporters were part of party rule, they seem skeptical about the motives of nosy interrogators and about the intentions of authority figures. It's just a hunch, but it seemed as if the young Russians, including Aleksei Kovalev of the Rangers, felt betrayed by the lockout last season, their first brush with the mean streak of capitalism. Sure, they'll play for pay, but don't expect too much more.
So this leaves Lemieux, and the stories from Penguins camp have been optimistic. They say he is in great shape, sculptured, no longer soft around the middle. They say he has been on the ice for every practice, not behind the closed doors of the medical room.
Although Lemieux is not about to grab a microphone and make an MTV video, reporters say he has been available for interviews and, if not colorful, at least accommodating. Perhaps he missed the scene. And when the Penguins were winning the Stanley Cup in 1991 and 1992, Lemieux -- with his big reach, his quick, hard shot and his eerie play-making instincts -- was undeniably the greatest show on hockey earth.
The plan calls for him to play about 60 or 65 times in the 82-game schedule. He will miss some trips and back-to-back games. Such a common-sense approach also might be wise for other players without his health problems, and what better person to use as a test case? He celebrates his 30th birthday this week as the league announces ambitious plans for Olympic participation and economic growth. A healthy, happy Lemieux could help restore the health and happiness of his business. Such serendipity. Happy birthday, Magnifique. Welcome back.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Penguins' Mario Lemieux is playing again after being sidelined with recurring back problems and his battle with Hodgkin's disease. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: PITTSBURGH PENGUINS PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (91%); PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (91%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PENGUINS PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (91%); PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (91%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); ATHLETES (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (75%); BASEBALL (73%); NETWORK TELEVISION (72%); TENNIS (71%); SENTENCING (70%); LOCKOUTS (67%); LYMPHOMA (53%); 

PERSON: LAPOINTE, JOE; LEMIEUX, MARIO MICHAEL JORDAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



36 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 2; Society Desk

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Tracy A. Butler, Mark I. Silberberg

 BODY:
Tracy Anne Butler, the daughter of Marlene and Dr. Marc Butler of Melville, L.I., was married last evening to Mark Ira Silberberg, a son of Marilyn and Dr. Donald Silberberg of Haverford, Pa. Rabbi Marc Gellman officiated at the Socrates Sculpture Park in Long Island City, Queens.
The couple attend Columbia University, where she is a medical student and he is a candidate for a Ph.D. in sociology and education. 
 Ms. Butler, who is 27 and is keeping her name, graduated magna cum laude from Amherst College. Mr. Silberberg, 29, graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received a master's degree in education from Harvard University. He also teaches science at the High School of Economics and Finance in New York.
The bride's father is a dentist in Melville, where her mother is a vice president of Automatic Data Processing, a tax and payroll company.
The bridegroom's mother is a psychiatric social worker in Philadelphia at Penn's Counseling and Psychological Services Center. His father, the former chairman of the department of neurology at Penn's Medical Center, is the associate dean for international medical programs there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (56%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); NEUROSCIENCE (71%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (71%); BOOKKEEPING & PAYROLL SERVICES (67%); 

PERSON: BUTLER, TRACY ANNE; SILBERBERG, MARK IRA TRACY ANNE BUTLER (83%); MARC BUTLER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



37 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Simplifying the Tax Code Isn't So Simple

 BODY:
Proposals to overhaul the Federal income tax system share two stated goals: to make the tax code simpler and fairer. But the debate in Washington, and among taxpayers across the country, shows the complexities of making such changes. Peter Passell's look at the proposals ("The Tax Code Heads Into the Operating Room," Sept. 3) drew many reader reactions, including various responses to its discussion of plans for a so-called flat tax.
 
To the Editor:
The comprehensive article seriously understates the taxes that would have to be paid with the flat tax. The understatement is particularly severe for those with very low incomes and for middle-income taxpayers with incomes as high as $100,000. The very rich, however, would have huge reductions in their taxes. 
 First, the tax rate necessary for revenue neutrality would not be the initial 20 percent claimed by Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, let alone the 17 percent he contends would be possible in the future, but rather 23 percent. This is indicated in effect in the original proposal, by the economists Robert Hall and Alvin Rabushka, on which Mr. Armey's bill is based, and is confirmed by my own calculations with data from the Internal Revenue Service's Statistics of Income as well as by other economists cited in the article.
Second, and most important, the article misstates the impact of the flat tax by ignoring, as does Mr. Armey, the incidence of the business portion of his flat tax. The current income tax, as of 1993, took 15.71 percent of total income. Of this, the nonbusiness portion of personal income taxes amounted to 9.77 percent and business taxes 5.95 percent. Mr. Armey's flat tax, if it applied the precisely 22.87 percent rate necessary for revenue neutrality, would raise the business tax from that 5.95 percent to 10.91 percent.
But, of course, it is ultimately not businesses but people that pay taxes, and as the proponents of the flat tax recognize -- and indeed boast -- their tax is a tax exclusively on consumption. To calculate the totals paid under the flat tax, then, we have to include the taxes paid by consumers. These would be considerably greater than those paid by consumers under current law where business taxes are much less.
I have compared the total tax incidence of the flat tax and current taxes in a paper to be published shortly by the American Enterprise Institute. I find that even for those with the lowest incomes, presumably exempt from the tax on wages, total flat taxes paid would have been markedly higher. For those with adjusted gross incomes between $10,000 and $20,000, the Armey version of the flat tax would have taken 11.88 percent of total income in 1993, compared with 10.18 percent under current law. For those in the $40,000-to-$50,000 group, the flat tax would have taken 15.76 percent of total income, compared with 14.04 percent under current law. Indeed, taxpayers in all income groups up to $100,000 would pay more under the flat tax.
It is only those in top income tax brackets who would gain. In the $100,000-to-$200,000 group, the tax burden would fall from 18.65 percent of total income to 16.12 percent. And in the $200,000-and-over group it would fall by almost half, from 24.36 percent to 12.69 percent.
A vastly simplified tax does not have to be that way, and I have proposed one that is not. But the Armey flat tax is enormously regressive, essentially for two reasons. First, interest and dividends, capital gains and noncorporate business profits, from which very high-income groups earn very large proportions of their income, would no longer be taxed at the individual level. And second, the vastly increased business tax would hit hard those of modest incomes, chiefly from wages and pensions, who unlike the very rich spend almost all their income on domestic consumption.
What reductions in individual income taxes the flat tax would provide would be far outweighed, for most Americans, by their increased burden from business taxes. Only the very rich would benefit.
 
ROBERT EISNER
Evanston, Ill. Sept. 13
 
The writer is professor emeritus at Northwestern University and a past president of the American Economic Association. He is the author of "The Misunderstood Economy: What Counts and How to Count It."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (51%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (98%); TAX LAW (93%); TAX REFORM (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); 

PERSON: EISNER, ROBERT; PASSELL, PETER ROBERT HALL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



38 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Simplifying the Tax Code Isn't So Simple

 BODY:
Proposals to overhaul the Federal income tax system share two stated goals: to make the tax code simpler and fairer. But the debate in Washington, and among taxpayers across the country, shows the complexities of making such changes. Peter Passell's look at the proposals ("The Tax Code Heads Into the Operating Room," Sept. 3) drew many reader reactions, including various responses to its discussion of plans for a so-called flat tax.
 
To the Editor:
No one is watching the debate about tax reform with greater interest than those of us at the Internal Revenue Service, and no one is more dedicated to making our tax system, whatever it may be, more efficient. 
 I was surprised -- and your readers may be misled -- by the comment by Joel Slemrod, director of the office of policy research at the University of Michigan, that it costs a dime to collect a dollar of tax revenue. It certainly doesn't cost the Government a dime. Our data show that our costs are substantially below a penny on the dollar. And we're trying to do better.
Obviously taxpayers have costs as well, but it boggles the mind to believe they are many times larger than ours. Millions next year will file simple returns with a single telephone call that lasts less than 10 minutes. At the other extreme is the 1040, which requires about 12 hours to deal with -- a bit more if collateral forms are added. So those with complex returns are spending about an hour a month on income tax issues.
But many taxpayers are spending less time because they file simpler forms. Fewer than 60 percent use the 1040. And, of course, the minority with complicated economic lives file complex tax returns that take a lot of time to compile. Still, the Slemrod estimate seems very high.
Whatever the reality -- and whatever happens to our tax system -- the I.R.S. will continue to work to bring the cost of tax collection down for everyone.
 
MARGARET MILNER RICHARDSON
Washington, Sept. 8
 
The writer is Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (90%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (90%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (90%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (90%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (98%); TAX LAW (95%); TAX REFORM (92%); INCOME TAX (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); WRITERS (70%); 

PERSON: RICHARDSON, MARGARET MILNER (COMR); PASSELL, PETER JOEL SLEMROD (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



39 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Simplifying the Tax Code Isn't So Simple

 BODY:
Proposals to overhaul the Federal income tax system share two stated goals: to make the tax code simpler and fairer. But the debate in Washington, and among taxpayers across the country, shows the complexities of making such changes. Peter Passell's look at the proposals ("The Tax Code Heads Into the Operating Room," Sept. 3) drew many reader reactions, including various responses to its discussion of plans for a so-called flat tax.
 
To the Editor:
The article states that Republican plans for simplifying the tax system "should save tens, perhaps hundreds, of billions of dollars now wasted on record-keeping, accountants and misdirected investments." 
 As a certified public accountant, I object to this characterization of accountants' services as being a waste of money. Accountants do not create the complexities that exist in Federal and state tax laws; Congress and state legislatures do. Taxpayers who choose not to engage the services of competent accountants and attempt to interpret the tax code on their own are in many instances making a foolish decision.
Even if the most drastic of the Republican proposals, an all-out flat tax, is enacted, much of the complexity in the tax laws will remain with us. We have 50 states with their own unique tax systems. The states cannot even assign uniform numbers to their tax forms. Wouldn't it be simpler for each state to use the number 1040 for their personal income tax form such as New Jersey (Form NJ-1040), than using inconsistent numbers (New York: Form IT-201, California: Form 540)? The states will be apprehensive to piggyback a Federal flat tax which would result in the elimination of all the unique provisions in each state's law. For example, New York taxes unemployment compensation while New Jersey does not.
A flat tax will not eliminate the controversies that all businesses face and which the I.R.S. continues to pursue vigorously concerning the classification of service providers as either employees or independent contractors. Another area of complexity: a flat tax will have no effect on sales tax at the state level. New Jersey exempts clothing from its sales tax. Regular shoes are exempt but golf shoes are taxable. Hair bows are exempt but hairnets and barrettes are taxable. In many states, cooked food is subject to sales tax but the same item purchased frozen is exempt.
While the various flat-tax proposals may provide some simplification, they are not the cure-all to our complex tax system.
 
NEIL BECOURTNEY
Teaneck, N.J., Sept. 13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (99%); TAX LAW (95%); TAX REFORM (92%); INCOME TAX (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SALES TAX (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (75%); ACCOUNTING (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: BECOURTNEY, NEIL

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



40 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: A Russian Scientist Cautions Chemical Arms Safety Is Lax

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
A Russian scientist says in an article to be published tomorrow that his country's chemical-weapon stockpile is more vulnerable to theft and illegal production than the Soviet nuclear arsenal was.
The scientist, Vil S. Mirzayanov, reported in 1991 that Moscow was secretly developing and testing chemical weapons after publicly renouncing them, and he was imprisoned twice -- in 1992 and 1994 -- for writing about the weapons program. 
 He says in the article that security around chemical-weapon storage sites is lax and that Russia does not have the money or technology to destroy its stocks safely. Officials with knowledge of the program and access to chemicals are being laid off and are desperate for money, he adds.
"Russia's stockpile is also a ticking ecological time bomb," Mr. Mirzayanov writes. He added that safety standards are routinely violated and that Russian workers have been contaminated. In 1993 and 1994, he writes, scientists tried to destroy stocks of binary weapons by detonating them in the open air at the Shikhany test site, in the Saratov region. Binary weapons combine two separate compounds at the point of delivery and yield some of the most poisonous agents ever developed.
Mr. Mirzayanov's article appears in "Chemical Weapons Disarmament in Russia: Problems and Prospects," to be published by the Henry L. Stimson Center in Washington, an independent organization for research into weapons.
Several dozen private Russian organizations and groups from the United States will meet in Saratov from Oct. 20 to Oct. 23 to consider the health and environmental consequences of further destruction of chemical arms, said Craig Williams, a spokesman for the Chemical Weapons Working Group in Berea, Ky., which opposes disposing of nerve gas by incineration.
Among those taking part will be Pacific Islanders concerned about the potential danger from an incinerator for chemical weapons opened in 1990 by the United States on Johnson Atoll, 700 miles southwest of Hawaii. Opponents of the incinerator say there are safer and cheaper ways to dispose of the chemicals.
Mr. Mirzayanov, 60, worked for the Soviet Government in chemical weapons research for 26 years and lost his job after he revealed information about the program. Unable to get a new job in Russia, he is in the United States looking for work. In the Stimson Center article, he gives details for the first time of the extent and size of Russia's binary weapons research, which he believes has now ended.
In 1989 the Soviet Union and the United States exchanged information about each other's chemical weapons programs for the first time. Washington declared that it possessed 30,000 tons of material; Moscow reported that it had 40,000 tons, though some independent scientists believe the stocks were larger.
By that time, both countries had renounced the use of such weapons, and Russian officials denied accusations Mr. Mirzayanov first made in 1991 and 1992 that the chemical weapons program had continued.
Moscow's program to produce binary weapons, code-named Novichok, or newcomer, began as an effort to match American research into binary chemical weapons, Mr. Mirzayanov writes, adding that tons of binary compounds were produced and tested from 1989 to 1993. Several of these were 5 to 10 times as powerful as the known so-called "nerve gases," a droplet of which can kill within a minute either by inhalation or through the skin.
Mr. Mirzayanov's earlier writings, in the Moscow newspapers Kuranty in 1991 and Moscow News in 1992, have been used by both sides of the debate in this country and abroad over the fate and importance of an international treaty barring the manufacture, sale, possession or use of chemical weapons. The treaty, the Chemical Weapons Convention, has been signed by 159 nations.
Only 39 nations have ratified the treaty, however, out of the 65 that are necessary to bring it into force. It is awaiting action in both the United States Senate and the Russian Parliament, which many experts believe is waiting to take its cue from Capitol Hill. Staff members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee say there is virtually no chance of a vote in the full Senate this year.
Opponents of the treaty in the United States Congress and some research institutions say that it cannot prevent the spread of chemical weapons, which are easier to conceal and move around than other weapons. Supporters of the treaty say that without it there would be no international tools to use against traffickers or nations seeking to stockpile these arms by buying them on the black market. Mr. Mirzayanov initially opposed the treaty, but now supports it.
While Congress has allocated money to help Russia reduce its nuclear materials and to find work for unemployed nuclear scientists, no similar program has been introduced for the chemical weapons industry.
In late October, the United States Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations will hold hearings on the spread of chemical, biological and nuclear weapons.
In an interview last week, Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev of Russia, who is pressing for ratification, said that if Parliament returns to Moscow in a serious mood next week after a break, "positive signals from Congress would be very, very beneficial." He added, however, that if the Parliament members turn their fall session into an extension of the political campaign for the Russian elections in December, the treaty will be "a lost case."
In a separate article in the Stimson publication, Amy E. Smithson, a senior associate at the center, examined in detail the safety of Russian chemical weapons storage sites. Like Mr. Mirzayanov, she says the sites are vulnerable to theft and to environmentally dangerous deterioration.
"In all candor, many American homes have more sophisticated physical security than was observed at some Russian chemical weapons storage sites," she wrote.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 4, 1995, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Sunday about chemical weapons in Russia misstated the fears expressed by the author of a report on the subject. The scientist, Vil S. Mirzayanov, said the chemical stockpiles were vulnerable to transfer, sale or theft. He did not refer to the further production of such weapons. They are no longer produced in Russia.

GRAPHIC: Map of Russia showing location of Saratov Region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL WEAPONS WORKING GROUP (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHEMICAL WEAPONS WORKING GROUP (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); HAWAII, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; STOCKPILING; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ROBBERY (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); LAYOFFS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); DISMISSALS (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (73%); 

PERSON: MIRZAYANOV, VIL S

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



41 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 3; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2740 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property;
Big Retailers Are Taking The Bronx - And S.I. Too

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
TO Barry Greenberg, it was a no-brainer: Discovery Zone, then a Chicago-based chain of indoor playgrounds, wanted to expand. The Bronx, with its dense population, seemed perfect. "I knew their sales would be off the charts there," said Mr. Greenberg, a vice president of the New Spectrum store brokerage.
But when Mr. Greenberg broached the idea to Discovery Zone's management three years ago, he slammed into a wall of fear. Never mind that the company already had one successful Bronx facility. Movies like "Fort Apache: The Bronx" and media reports about carnage in the borough had taken their toll. 
 So Mr. Greenberg took a group of Discovery Zone executives on a bus tour of the dread borough. "While we rode, I talked about rents of $70 and $80," Mr. Greenberg recalled, referring to annual rents per square foot. "They laughed. But once we hit the Caldor store on Fordham Road, the laughter was gone."
It was replaced, Mr. Greenberg says, by awe at the hordes of people carrying shopping bags -- and scores of children playing in the Discovery Zone on Valentine Avenue, two blocks from Caldor. "They immediately told me to look for another Bronx site," Mr. Greenberg said.
Mr. Greenberg played host to a similar bus tour in Brooklyn and Queens. The upshot: Discovery Zone now has stores in each borough, another under construction in Brooklyn, and -- provided it gets past its current financial problems -- wants to open half a dozen more, spread throughout New York.
It may have trouble finding sites for them. It seems that everyone, from retailers to real estate brokers, from developers to city officials, is waking up to the vast amount of buying power that exists in Brooklyn, Queens, Staten Island and the Bronx. They know that the rents are high, that crime can be a problem, that getting building permits can take forever, that they may have to settle for inadequate parking and strangely shaped, multilevel stores.
But those drawbacks are overshadowed by the sheer volume of New York City shoppers who, study after study shows, are flocking to Westchester, Long Island and New Jersey to shop. A recent Gallup poll of 1,000 New York households showed that 32 percent of them had shopped outside New York in 1994, that they averaged 22 shopping trips in the year, and spent an average of $154 per trip. Most telling: 78 percent of those shoppers said they would have shopped in their own boroughs, if only the stores were available.
"We export $3.4 billion a year in sales across city lines, and we are losing more than 15,000 good jobs and millions of dollars of tax revenue," said Joseph B. Rose, the director of the Department of City Planning, which is trying to ease the regulatory burden on new stores.
Retailers, meanwhile, may be missing out on swollen sales. "Pathmark can do $1,000 in sales per square foot in the inner city, while competitors two highway exits away do $500," said Paul G. W. Fetscher, president of Great American Brokerage in Manhattan.
Developers are recognizing that, too. One recent example: Forest City Ratner has finally broken ground for Atlantic Center, its long-awaited shopping center at Atlantic and Flatbush Avenues in downtown Brooklyn. Caldor, Sports Authority, Marshalls, Old Navy, Pathmark, Office Max, PC Richard and several others have signed up for space. The 400,000-square-foot center, which will have only 650 parking spaces, will probably open in November of 1996.
Local retailers have snapped up many buildings on the main shopping drags and are renting excess space to national chains. Larger developers are going after abandoned factories and tracts of land. "Everyone is looking for a diamond in the rough, for that industrial building or piece of land that works for retail," said Peter Botsaris, president of the Garrick-Aug store brokerage.
Neither the flattening out of retail sales across the country, nor the recent bankruptcy filings of Bradlees and Caldor, two of the biggest players in the outer boroughs, have dampened the developers' zeal. They acknowledge that the financial problems may scuttle some chains' expansion plans, and might even force a few to close stores. But if that happens, developers say, other retailers are certain to take up the slack.
"If God forbid something really bad happened to Caldor, you could zap a supermarket into its stores and do really well," said Bruce Ratner of Forest City Ratner.
That is not bombast. Warehouse stores like BJ's and Price Club all want to open their first New York City stores. Pathmark is looking to open more supermarkets in the outer boroughs. Movie exhibitors are always looking for sites for multiplexes.
"Virtually every large tract of land or building is subject to inspection by a big box user these days," said Guy Morris, Garrick-Aug's shopping center specialist. "They'll make their geometric formulas fit into whatever space is available."
The borough newcomers are not chasing the types of shoppers that stroll up Madison Avenue or Rodeo Drive. They cater to the solid lower-middle-income crowd.
While Manhattan is riddled with Gap stores, for example, in the other boroughs that chain is opening far more Old Navy stores, which sell the Gap's lower-priced lines. For the same reason, it was Caldor and Bradlees, both discounters, that bid for the stores that the bankrupt Alexanders gave up in 1992 (Caldor won).
The chains are rapidly changing the character of the boroughs' main shopping streets. Streets like Steinway Street in Astoria, Queens, 86th Street in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, East Fordham Road in the Bronx and Hylan Boulevard in Staten Island, all once bastions of local boutiques and service shops, now are dotted with Fayva and Payless Shoe Stores, with Lechter household stores, with Old Navy and even Benetton.
"The vacancy rate on the major streets is zippo," said Michael Myers, chairman of the brokerage Corporate Realty Partners.
INDEED, the chains have driven annual rents to about $45 to $50 a square foot on Steinway Street, $80 to $100 on Fordham Road, $60 to $70 on 86th Street -- a lot more than a local shoemaker can pay. So the local stores have moved to peripheral locations, thereby expanding the shopping districts.
"The national retailers didn't push out the local bakeries or delis, they pushed them to vacant side street space," Mr. Botsaris said.
Nor is the retail boom confined to main streets. Retailers are lining up to get into old centers like Queens Plaza and Brooklyn's Kings Plaza. And new shopping centers are springing up, revolving around the so-called big box retailers whose huge stores rarely fit on crowded urban streets.
For many of these stores, New York is the last unsaturated territory. Home Depot, for example, has 393 stores across the country, yet only has two in New York City, in Ozone Park and Flushing, Queens. It bucked formidable opposition from local merchants to get the Flushing store open, and is facing local opposition to a store it wishes to build on Gun Hill Road in the Bronx. Still, it is pressing on.
'We would be remiss if we were not in New York," said Jerry Shields, a spokesman for Home Depot.
Similarly, Circuit City, the huge electronic chain, has 335 stores and a strategic plan that, by the end of 1996, will give it stores in every major market except New York. The chain is said to be ready to take a site on 14th Street in Manhattan, and is canvassing the other boroughs for sites, too. Ann M. Collier, a Circuit City assistant vice president, notes that the chain has not "announced" any expansion plans in New York, but makes it clear that, for a national chain, a move to New York is inevitable.
"We have 300 smaller markets that we could go to, but we really want to be a national retailer," she said.
The retailers who are already here say their expansion is curbed only by a shortage of sites. Toys 'R' Us, for one, has 10 toy stores and two Kids 'R' Us stores in the boroughs outside of Manhattan. It will soon open a Kids store in Long Island City, and plans to open a Toys store in College Point, Queens. And, it seeks sites for more stores.
"People read the stories about shrinkage, about rent, about taxes, and they're afraid to come to New York," said Michael P. Miller, a Toys 'R' Us senior vice president. "But once you take the plunge, you say, 'Why didn't I do this sooner?' "
The boroughs beyond Manhattan have not always been an easy sell to retailers. Even the big box users, whose size and clout usually gets them the best bargains, often have to pay annual rents of anywhere from $20 to $35 a foot for New York stores, compared to $8 to $10 anywhere else. And, like the Discovery Zone executives, many out-of-town retailers have negative perceptions of the boroughs.
Developers say attitudes started changing after Caldor and Bradlees bid for the Alexanders stores. "That was the seminal event for big box retailing in New York," Mr. Ratner said. "All the other chains wanted to know what interested those two."
Many chain executives still balk at borough rents and reputations. So some developers offer to share risks, by lowering rents in exchange for high percentages of sales.
That's how Philips International lured Walgreens to a property in Mill Basin, not far from Brooklyn's Kings Plaza mall. "I wanted $35 and they turned me down three times," said Gregg M. Saunders, a Philips partner, describing the annual rental per square foot he was seeking. So Mr. Saunders halved the rent and upped his percentage of the take. "They're doing so well, it's like they are paying me $40 a foot," he said.
Mr. Saunders cut a similar deal with T.J. Maxx, which opened about seven months ago in Staten Island. Mr. Saunders asked $20 a foot; he agreed to $12 and a high percentage. "By next year I'll benefit from this," he predicted. He says T.J. Maxx now wants sites in Brooklyn and Queens.
HIS site search will probably run him up against Forest City Ratner, which has entered the boroughs in a major way.
"About three years ago, when the office market went down, we analyzed our core skills and realized that we were good at complex urban projects," Mr. Ratner said. What clinched it was a study Mr. Ratner commissioned that showed that at least half of the $3.4 billion that New Yorkers spend elsewhere each year could be recaptured by bringing better retailing to the city.
Forest City already has built Caldor a store, with about 300 rooftop parking spaces, on the site of the old Macy's on Flatbush Avenue. The developer has four more projects in various stages of development -- two in the Bronx, one in Queens, one in Brooklyn -- and has options on an eight-acre tract on Metropolitan Avenue and Woodhaven Boulevard in Queens, where it is thinking of a 200,000-square-foot shopping center.
Landowners who either cannot or do not want to develop their land themselves are getting ample offers of assistance.
Michelangelo Real Estate, which owns a small strip center of mom-and-pop stores on Queens Boulevard in Forest Hills, recently hired Corporate Realty Partners to lease it to a credit-worthy chain.
"We figured we'd get $21 a foot," Mr. Myers said. He underestimated: A bidding war ensued. Genovese Drugs won, and is paying $24 to start, with hefty escalations.
Mr. Myers hopes to do equally well with a seven-acre site in Woodhaven, Queens, owned by the estate of Sol Goldman and housing a Coca Cola distribution center. Mr. Myers says he's had interest from Home Depot and Caldor, and from developers, all of whom agreed to triple-net leases -- leases that, in effect, make the renters responsible for taxes and maintenance.
"Everyone would like to buy it, but the Goldman estate won't sell," he said. "Why sell properties and pay half the profits in taxes when you can rent and keep 90 cents on the dollar?"
The borough's retail landlords say they are indeed reaping rich rewards. Nearly five years ago Philips International paid $17 million for a six-acre site that housed an old ink factory on Northern Boulevard and 48th Street in Queens.
"Everyone thought we were nuts to pay that much," Mr. Saunders recalled. They weren't: Philips built the 120,000-square-foot Plaza 48 shopping center, and immediately attracted Toys 'R' Us, Pergament and several smaller tenants, all of which are doing brisk business.
Their success has attracted other retailers and developers. A Tops appliance store opened in adjacent space about a year ago. A Kmart is slated for a Ronzoni Factory nearby, while Caldor -- assuming bankruptcy does not scuttle its plan -- will go into a Gallo Wine building next door. Toys 'R' Us is opening a Kids store across from Tops.
Equally popular areas are sprinkled through each borough. Philips International has a 20-acre mall off Route 440 in Staten Island that is anchored by Caldor and is "doing serious business, even though it is in the middle of nowhere, " Mr. Saunders said. The developer Charles M. Yassky is squiring a 250,000-square-foot shopping center, also off Route 440, through the city approval process. It is to be anchored by a 60,000-square-foot Pathmark.
In the Bronx, Forest City Ratner just broke ground for a 110,000-square-foot center on Bruckner Boulevard and White Plains Road, across from thriving Toys 'R' Us and Caldor stores. It will house a Pergament, a Seamans, an Old Navy and sundry other stores, and should open in 9 months. Meanwhile, Bay Plaza, a 70-acre residential and commercial center near Co-op City, keeps expanding. Last year Kmart opened there, and The Wiz just doubled its space.
For New York City, the influx is bittersweet. For decades, the city harbored a dream of restoring its once-thriving manufacturing base, and used zoning to keep retailers from bidding up industrial rents.
"The restrictions had no beneficial impact on manufacturing, but they were devastating to retailing," Mr. Rose said.
Earlier this year, the Planning Department issued a proposal to allow stores of up to 200,000 square feet to open on an as-of-right basis in areas zoned for manufacturing. It recommended lowering commercial occupancy taxes outside of Manhattan, enforcing rules against street peddlers, and otherwise enhancing the quality of life on main shopping streets. But it would remove tax incentives for stores opening in higher income areas that already have retailers clamoring to get in.
"Those incentives were there to compensate for the cost of going through the tortuous approval process that we are eliminating," explained Eric A. Kober, the department's director of housing, economic and infrastructure planning.
The city expects that community boards, the City Planning Commission and the Borough Presidents will all support the proposals. "The mayor's goal is to have all this in place by the end of 1996," Mr. Kober said.
If the Bronx's track record is any indication, the proposals should sail through. In that borough, local community development corporations, most of which started as housing groups, have been actively pursuing retailers, particularly supermarkets.
"Their goal is to stabilize neighborhoods, improve quality of life, create jobs and make good products available," said Bernd Zimmermann, director of planning and development for Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer.
Examples abound. The Mid Bronx Desperados -- a deceptively macho name for a 20-year-old community group that has arranged for more than 25,000 units of subsidized housing -- is trying to bring Pathmark to a 10-acre site on the border of Crotona Park East and West Farms. The group, with funding from the Surdna Foundation, is preparing an environmental impact statement for the site, which was once slated for an industrial park. In High Bridge, a community development group is wooing a supermarket to a site on E.L. Grant Highway.
All the city and community efforts may fail, of course, if retail sales do not pick up, or if more bankruptcies occur.
"Everyone is nervous," said Michael D. Bailkin, managing partner of the law firm Stadtmauer Bailkin. He says that a year ago he would have predicted 30 new big box stores in the boroughs within the next few years; now he expects maybe 15.
Still, even Mr. Bailkin is ready to rethink his estimates if even one healthy newcomer enters the fray. "If a Target or a Wal-Mart comes it, it will spur another retail boomlet," he said. "I haven't heard rumors yet, but it could happen."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 1995, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 1 about retail development in the boroughs beyond Manhattan misstated the source of some money for a shopping-center project sponsored by the Mid Bronx Desperados, a community group. Development money for the project has come from the Comprehensive Community Revitalization Program, not solely from the Surdna Foundation. The article also misstated the number of subsidized housing units arranged by the Desperados. It is about 2,100.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chain stores are rapidly changing the character of the shopping streets in boroughs outside Manhattan. On 86th Street between Fourth and Fifth Avenues in Brooklyn, a Wiz and a Fayva have joined local stores, and a Gap (building with white facade at left) is under construction.; The Discovery Zone at Fordham Road and Valentine Avenue in the Bronx. The chain of indoor playgrounds was wary of opening at another Bronx site, but it now has facilities in each borough. (pg. 1); Tops appliance store, which opened about a year ago at Northern Boulevard and 50th Street in Queens. (pg. 10) (Photographs by Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC); QUEENS (NYC); STATEN ISLAND (NYC); BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); POPULATION DENSITY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (86%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); CITIES (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); BUILDING PERMITS (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H BARRY GREENBERG (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



42 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly/Queens

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE QUEENS;
A Criss-Crossed Quest

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

 BODY:
JEFFREY A. SAUNDERS knew that Scrabble was born on 79th Street in Jackson Heights. He knew that Alfred Mosher Butts lived there when he invented the game.
But he also knew that he was one of the few -- historians of Scrabble included -- who had uncovered the real story of the popular word game. 
 Over the years, books, articles and information from the game's manufacturer carried conflicting accounts of Scrabble. Dates of the game's invention were variously listed from 1931 to 1933.
Rarely was it true origin in Jackson Heights mentioned, and that bothered Mr. Saunders, who has lived in the neighborhood for 10 years and serves as co-chairman of the architecture department of the Jackson Heights Beautification Group.
So about a year ago, Mr. Saunders began his quest, to solve the Scrabble puzzle and write Jackson Heights back into Scrabble history.
"As I started talking to people who play Scrabble and I realized how many are devoted to it, I decided that I had to reconnect Scrabble with Jackson Heights," he said. "History is not written in just bricks and gardens. History is also written in people and what they do with their time."
As a result of what Mr. Saunders did with his time -- checking archives, interviewing some of the game's original players and enlisting the help of a relative of Mr. Butts -- the latest book about the game and its history, "Everything Scrabble" (Pocket Books, 1995), and the game's official history published by its manufacturer, Milton Bradley, will be revised.
"It is clear that the history of Scrabble definitely needs to be rewritten," said John D. Williams, the editor of "Everything Scrabble" and the executive director of the National Scrabble Association.
Mr. Saunders began his search in the archives of the Community Methodist Church on 35th Avenue in Jackson Heights, where he had heard some of the first games were played during the Depression. He found listings of reservations from the mid-1930's for Scrabble games in the church's basement social room.
He searched for friends of Mr. Butts and his wife, Nina. He began to collect eyewitness accounts from some of the original players of Scrabble, like former members of the Jackson Heights Woman's College Club, or people who knew them.
"Everyone I talked to would say, 'Oh, Alf, Alf and his crazy game,' " Mr. Saunders said.
Last spring, a woman from Savannah, Ga., saw a national broadcast of a children's Scrabble competition in Jackson Heights and wrote Mr. Saunders to tell him she played the game in Mr. Butts's kitchen in the early 1930's.
Mr. Saunders heard similar stories, and he concluded that it was in Mr. Butts's garden apartment, around his dining room and kitchen tables, that friends and family learned the game.
And it was on Sunday nights during the Depression, in the church's social room, that residents of the neighborhood practiced the game with hand-cut wooden tiles week after week until Mr. Butts was satisfied he had it right.
Through the accounts, Mr. Saunders discovered that the game Mr. Butts conceived in 1931 evolved over several years, with input from the players. They helped him decide things like how many triple-score squares to place on the board (there are eight) and how the first turn should be decided (it is the player who draws from the tile bag the letter closest to A).
Mr. Saunders then contacted Robert R. Butts, the great-nephew of the game's inventor, who began to sort through Alfred Butts's diaries and papers. In the papers was the patent application for a game called Criss-Cross Words, dated 1938. The name was changed to Scrabble in 1947.
Robert Butts had all kinds of clues, like blueprints of the original letter tiles and other Scrabble memorabilia. A clearer picture of how Alfred Butts developed the game began to emerge.
"I really wanted to find out the chronology of when and where he lived in Jackson Heights and relate it to the development of his games," said Mr. Butts, who lives in the house in Stanfordville, N.Y., where his great-uncle lived from 1978 until his death in 1993.
Alfred Butts, an architect who was born in Poughkeepsie but lived most of his life in Jackson Heights, began experimenting with word games while he was unemployed in the early 1930's. He drew letters on architects' linen, made blueprints of them and used a printers' knife to cut them from pieces of plywood.
He assigned values to each letter, based on their frequency in the language, which he determined by studying the front pages of The New York Times.
Later, when he created a board for the game, he drew the crossword pattern onto a cloth and pasted it onto a Checkers board.
Last Wednesday night, Mr. Saunders' quest came full circle. He was among 30 Scrabble players gathered in the social room of the Community Methodist Church for the first meeting of the Queens Scrabble Club.
The players sat in pairs at card tables, shaking their corduroy and velvet tile bags. They spelled out words like "racily," "boxier," "ego" and "zoo" on their boards, competing in the very room where the first players sat 60 years ago, helping Alfred Mosher Butts perfect his game.
"Mr. Butts, Mr. Williams and I will get together in the next few months and consolidate all of this information," Mr. Saunders said at the club meeting. "And we will reestablish a history that has been hazy -- until now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Therese Romero (left) and Joan Bishop play Scrabble in the church where its inventor tested the game. Jeffrey Saunders (right) updated the game's history. (Photographs by Steve Berman for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "WORD PLAY: A Brief History of Scrabble"
 Here are highlights of recent findings by Jeffrey A. Saunders, a Jackson Heights resident, and Robert R. Butts, the great-nephew of the game's inventor.
 
Early 1930's -- Alfred M. Butts begins devising a spelling game with lettered wodden tiles, but no game board. He calls it Lexiko.
 
1938 -- Mr. Butts acquires a patent for Criss-Cross Words, a crossword board game that evolved from Lexiko.
 
1947 -- James Brunot, a Connecticut entrepreneur, agrees to produce and market the game, which is renamed Scrabble.
 
1979 -- After changing hands several times, the game is sold to Hasbro, which turns it over to its Milton Bradley division.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SCRABBLE ASSOCIATION (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCRABBLE ASSOCIATION (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TOYS & GAMES MFG (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); HISTORY (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (69%); TESTIMONY (69%); 

PERSON: JEFFREY A SAUNDERS (94%); ALFRED MOSHER BUTTS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1995



43 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS BEST SELLERS

 BODY:

HARD COVER
 
+1 THE SEVEN SPIRITUAL LAWS OF SUCCESS by Deepak Chopra (Amber-Allen/New World Library, $12.95). How to "generate wealth in all its forms."
 

+2 BUFFETT by Roger Lowenstein (Random House, $27.50). The life of Warren E. Buffett.
 
+3 TO RENEW AMERICA by Newt Gingrich (HarperCollins, $24). The Speaker of the House describes his solutions to the country's problems.
 
+4 HOW TO ARGUE AND WIN EVERY TIME by Gerry Spence (St. Martin's, $22.95). A lawyer describes ways to win arguemtns.
 
5 THE DEATH OF COMMON SENSE by Philip K. Howard (Random House, $18). How government-regulations are fettering Americans.
 
+6 THE BEARDSTONW LADIES' COMMON-SENSE INVESTMENT GUIDE (Godin/Hyperion, $19.95). Tips for successful investing.
 
+*7 MARY KAY: YOU CAN HAVE IT ALL by Mary Kay Ash (Prima, $22.95). Entrepreneural advice.
 
8 THE VISION OF ANOUNTED by Thomas Sowell (Basic Books, $25). A scholarly critique of prevailing wisdom in social, academic and economic areas.
 
9 BEING DIGITAL by Nicholas Negroponte (Knopf, $23). How computers will change our lives.
 
+10 IT'S BETTER TO LAUGH by Kathy Levine (Pocket, $23). QVC television shopping diva on her gender, age and her career path.
 
*11 THE TAKEOVER by Stephen W. Frey (Dutton, $19.95). A novel about monster deals and murders.
 
*12 A PENNY SAVED by Neale S. Godfrey (Simon & Schuster, $18.95). Teaching children about finances.
 
*13 RETHINKING AMERICA by Hedrick Simon (Random House, $25). Industry and education in America and other countries.
 
PAPERBACK
 
+1 THE SEVEN HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE by Stephen R. Covey (Fireside/S&S, $12). Principles for success.
 
+2 CREATING A NEW CIVILIZATION by Alvin Toffler and Heidi Toffler (Turner Publishing, $7.95). A proposal for reshaping society to meet 21st-century conditions.
 
+3 RE-ENGINEERING THE CORPORATION by Michael Hammer and James Champy (Harper Business, $13). Business innovation.
 
4 THE ALADDIN FACTOR by Jack Canfield and Mark Victor Hansen (Berkley, $13). A motivational team says you should start by asking for what you want.
 
5 INVESTMENT BIKER by Jim Rogers (Adams, $12.95). Primer on world markets by globe-cycling Wall Street money manager.
 
*6 THE 1995 WHAT COLOR IS YOUR PARACHUTE? by Richard Nelson Bolles (Ten Speed, $14.95). Advice about careers.
 
Rankings are based on September sales figures of 3,050 bookstores and of wholesalers serving 28,000 hard-cover retailers and 38,000 paperback retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets). The numbers are statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
 
+Some bookstores report receiving bulk orders of these titles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LIST

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%); RENEW AMERICA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: RENEW AMERICA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RETAILERS (89%); BOOKSTORES (79%); BOOK SALES (79%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); RETAIL SALES (70%); TAKEOVERS (69%); SALES FIGURES (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (61%); NEWSSTANDS (60%); RANKINGS (50%); 

PERSON: DEEPAK CHOPRA (73%); WARREN BUFFETT (72%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1995



44 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 18; Column 2; The City Weekly/Queens

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Thinking (Just Thinking) About the Impossible

BYLINE: By DAVIDSON GOLDIN

 BODY:
It's too soon to write the obituary for Yankee Stadium, but perhaps not too soon to start thinking about what the city would do with the remains.
George M. Steinbrenner 3d, the team's principal owner, has set the middle of next year as a deadline to decide where the Yankees will play after their lease on the stadium expires in 2002. Mr. Steinbrenner complains often about the 72-year-old stadium's problems with parking, traffic congestion and crime, and says the team could make more money by leaving the Bronx. In the last year, he has rejected 13 proposals from the Giuliani administration to keep the team in the city. And last month, New Jersey officials said they would be happy to see the New Jersey Yankees at the Meadowlands Sports Complex. 
 Mr. Steinbrenner is a shrewd negotiator, and all his maneuvering could be just a ploy. But New York has lost four pro sports teams in four decades: the Dodgers (1957, to Los Angeles), the baseball Giants (1957, to San Francisco), the football Giants (1975, to the Meadowlands) and the Jets (1983, to the Meadowlands).
Just as New York sans the Yankees is unthinkable to many, so was Ebbets Field minus the Dodgers. But after they decamped for L.A., a hastily formed Ebbets Field Productions leased the stadium to various sporting events and theatrical, musical and novelty attractions. Leading off the first post-Dodger event, on Memorial Day weekend 1958, was the stunt car driver Jack Kochman and his "helldrivers."
So if the Yankees do leave, what will happen to Yankee Stadium? The Parks Department says it costs $3.5 million a year to operate, including maintenance, equipment and electricity. Without a professional sports team, the department estimates the operating cost at just over $1 million. What could attract enough people to raise that sort of money? Who would dare to tear it down?
The questions are fraught with political risk. Several public officials wanted nothing to do with thinking out loud, for public consumption, about the notion of the Bronx without the Yankees. Still, New York is New York, and plenty of people were willing to offer their two cents:
 DAVIDSON GOLDIN
 
 RON DELSENER
 Concert Promoter
 I could do concerts there, although the truth is it's not an ideal place to do concerts because there's not parking. Still, it is a prestigious thing to say, 'I played Yankee Stadium,' and some acts do it just to say they did it. We've done it before, we could do it again. I'd certainly take a shot at it, and maybe we could do it three, four times a summer. My first choice is to bring back the Brooklyn Dodgers, or bring in another team.

 EDWARD I. KOCH
 Former Mayor
 You could turn it into tennis courts -- put a bubble over it so it's open all year. Or you could turn it into a stadium that would be available to younsters who are in baseball leagues and use our parks and want the feeling of professionalism. I wouldn't knock it down. I'd find some use for it. You might want to bring in gatherings of large outside groups, like the Jehovah's Witnesses, to use it.

 WARNER LeROY
 Restaurateur
 Bring in another baseball team, or use it for concerts or build a theme park possibly, like Great Adventure. The best idea is to get another baseball team, or if you could even get soccer going. Or bull-fighting -- that would be great.

 FERNANDO FERRER
 Bronx Borough President
 We ought to put together a group of wealthy and concerned New Yorkers and buy another baseball team, bring it to New York City, and then when Steinbrenner challenges that, as he predictably will do, we should walk into Federal court and challenge baseball's antitrust exemption. We can then take the name Yankee Stadium off and put up Bomber Stadium, and call the new team the Bronx Bombers.

 GAY TALESE
 Author
 They could put a roof on it, and turn it into a good homeless shelter. Or it could be a wonderful park for the underprivileged -- kids otherwise limited to the cracked cement of housing projects. Green grass! If you wanted a commercial use, it could ba convention center, and would do a better job than the Coliseum or the Javits Center. That would resurrect some of the supposedly lost economy of the Bronx.

 PHIL RIZUTTO
 Broadcaster and ex-Yankee shortstop
 They'd probably make a fortune just breaking it into pieces and selling it as souvenirs. Unfortunately, it's too expensive to run for high school or even college baseball. Football draws enough fans, but not baseball.

 BETSY GOTBAUM
 Former Parks Commissioner
 The cost of tearing it down would be almost prohibitive, and it's a great landmark. I would turn it into a wonderful city-owned recreation center for the South Bronx. If we had the money, it would be wonderful to turn it into a giant swimming pool. To break even, you'd have to go after big concerts and big revenue -- Nelson Mandela brought in $1 million.
 
PETE HAMILL
Writer
The last thing they should do is another public housing project like at the Polo Grounds or Ebbets Field. I'd make it a Toyota plant and put blue-collar jobs in the Bronx. What the people desperately need is blue-collar jobs that create revenue. Maybe there could be an industrial plant or a big newspaper plant - if there are any newspapers seven years from now. Or perhaps it could be used as a big television and movie production center.
 
REP. CHARLES RANGEL
Congressman
It's a fantastic tourist center and we hope it's going to be a big economic hub for Manhattan and the Bronx. It's a place that could be a showcase and you have to market it that way. There are unlimited possibilities as an exciting place for economic development.
 
BELLA ABZUG
Former Congresswoman
You could have expositions and use it for community groups. It could be a major hub of the Bronx. It could be a cultural center - music groups, dance groups. The Bronx could use that, a center of activity.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers prepared the grass at Yankee Stadium for the 1957 season. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (82%); NEW YORK GIANTS (82%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (82%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); NEW YORK GIANTS (82%); NEW YORK JETS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (82%); NEW YORK GIANTS (82%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (82%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); NEW YORK GIANTS (82%); NEW YORK JETS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); BASEBALL (73%); TENNIS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (70%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (70%); EVENT MARKETING (64%); 

PERSON: GEORGE M STEINBRENNER (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1995



45 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: Towns Just Saying 'No' to Federal Funds

BYLINE: By ANDI RIERDEN 

 BODY:
IN an era of fiscal austerity, it may seem incredible that any town in Connecticut would reject nearly $1 million in Federal and state grant money aimed at improving a local road. But last month, the town of Guilford did just that. It turned down a package of government aid and opted to fix the road with its own money. Earlier this year, the town of Redding also decided to go it alone, rejecting $347,000 in Federal and state transportation money to fix a beloved historic bridge on a scenic road. Skeptical about traditional approaches to state and Federal road design that a growing number of residents believe are excessive and tend to erode the distinct features of Connecticut's landscape, more and more towns across the state are debating whether to follow the same route.
"It's a startling change of affairs," said Laura Clarke, executive director of the Connecticut Trust for Historic Preservation in New Haven. "People are saying no to gift horses of money and deciding it's much more important to retain the character of their towns." 
 In recent months, a number of citizens groups have formed to try to persuade Federal and state authorities to give towns more say over their streets, and to allow them to qualify for aid under less severe standards.
On Nov. 1 voters in Mansfield will decide in a referendum whether to accept $550,000 in government financing to refurbish a historic one-lane bridge, which transportation officials say must be widened to two lanes to quality for the money. In the northwestern part of the state, two regional planning agencies have joined forces to urge transportation authorities to allow Federal money for roads in that area, which currently don't qualify for such grants, and to design a separate set of standards for rural roads. The trend toward more local autonomy over road design is not limited to Connecticut. Transportation agencies in Vermont and Maine, for example, are reviewing their design criteria at the request of local communities. Veronika Thiebach, an attorney with the Conservation Law Foundation in Boston, said that the conventional attitude that residents have little control over road projects is changing.
"More and more citizens are rising up against the state," she said. "People don't want the type of megaprojects commonly proposed, because it fundamentally affects the livability of a community by turning our Main Streets into highways."
At issue are the rules governing road projects, based on a 1991 Federal law overseeing the financing of road improvement and the design guidelines established by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
In the case of interstate highways and heavily traveled national and state routes, the law requires most projects to comply with association design and construction standards. Work on less traveled residential roads can be funded by Federal money, subject only to state design and construction standards. The state receives about $350 million of Federal money annually for road projects.
The highway and transportation association criteria have been criticized for creating a "one size fits all" approach to road design. While transportation officials say its purpose is to insure safety and uniformity, opponents say it encourages designs that widen and flatten roads, creating a homogeneous landscape and conditions ripe for speeding. Although many states have adopted standards separate from the association criteria, the Connecticut Department of Transportation relies on them for most road projects.
Among the concerns of local groups is the practice of clearing roadsides -- removing the older trees and stone walls that give a road character.
"I was stunned at their inflexibility," said James Portley, the engineer for the town of Guilford, who applied for the Federal aid for a $985,000 project to improve Little Meadow Road, a winding, two-lane road near the north of the town's center.
He said state transportation officials would not budge when residents requested saving the stone walls and 100-year-old trees lining the road. Accepting the financing would have allowed the state to widen the road far beyond what was necessary, he said.
"We're not Iowa, with all of this vast space," Mr. Portley said. "In New England these stone walls and trees mean a lot to people."
Henry W. Bielawa, First Selectman of Redding said he encountered a similar struggle over the rebuilding of a historic bridge on Poverty Hollow Road, a designated scenic road.
Earlier this year, the town rejected the $347,000 Federal-state package after residents objected to a plan to increase the span and height of the bridge and widen the approaching road.
In a recent letter to the Council of Small Towns in West Hartford regarding federally financed road projects, Mr. Bielawa wrote: "It's a sad commentary on our system when historic preservation, neighborhood esthetics and common sense are displaced by cookie-cutter design requirements, standardization without regard to local custom and usage and the 'bigger is better' philosophy. "The ultimate frustration," the letter continued, is that "the money we are not accepting will only be spent somehow, somewhere else rather than going to decrease taxes."
Transportation officials at both the state and Federal level say that the standards imposed on Connecticut roads and bridges do allow for some flexibility, but that Federal money under the 1991 law is targeted for major capital improvements not routine maintenance, and that towns must be aware of the requirements.
"We don't set up the regulations and laws but we have to make certain that towns abide by them," said Sebastian Sbalcio, principal engineer for the Department of Transportation. "Towns have to know that when they apply for financing it comes with strings attached."
Transportation authorities also point out that towns often try to waive aspects of a road project long after the job has been designed and is ready for construction. At that point, they said, the change requested may incur considerable costs. Citizens should get involved in the initial planning stages of any road project, they said.
"It's important for residents to organize early and give their input," said Carl Gottshall, assistant division administrator of the Federal Highway Administration. "A lot of people just think the project isn't going to happen and wait." Federal and state transportation officials in Connecticut met recently with representatives from the Litchfield Hills Council of Elected Officials, based in Goshen, and the Northwestern Connecticut Council of Governments, based in Torrington, to discuss the possibility of creating a new set of design standards for rural roads.
Representatives from the two regional planning agencies, which represent 20 towns, also said they'd like to see Federal law governing road improvement aid amended to include certain classifications of local roads. Under the current law, they said, few of the roads in the northwest part of the state qualify for Federal money.
Alan Chapin, First Selectman of Washington and chairman of a transportation committee for the regional agencies, said that apart from local budgets and a small annual state aid grant, the region has no other source of aid for rural roads. About 50 percent those roads, he said, are classified as being in poor or very poor condition. "We're just looking for flexibility in design standards and a fair share," he added.
In Guilford, a consortium of preservation and conservation groups representing 2,500 residents, has called for an ordinance regulating road and bridge improvement to help preserve its rural character. The group proposes that new roads not exceed a width of 22 feet and that existing roads be maintained at the current widths. Their proposal also recommends that old stone bridges be preserved by routine maintenance using native stone and timber, and that the town avoid building curbs.
"By saving the character of the town we're not standing in the way of economic development," said Shirley Girioni, president of the Guilford Preservation League. "The two things complement each other. People perceive a town through its roads."
Ms. Clarke, of the Connecticut Trust for Historic Preservation, said more and more towns are moving to take responsibility for the future of their byways. "This is not just a historic preservation movement," she said. "People all over are feeling deeply cynical and suspicious about what's been done to their towns. Perhaps the time has come in which towns and the D.O.T. can work together."
An initial attempt by residents to reach a compromise with the Department of Transportation was apparent in a heated public hearing held recently in Branford. At issue was a proposal to rebuild the bridge over Interstate 95 at Exit 56. The spot contains a busy truck stop and has been the site of 21 accidents in the past couple of years, mostly related to truck traffic. The plan includes expanding the four-lane bridge to five lanes, raising it, closing an off ramp and building a new off/on ramp and widening the approaching road.
Transportation officials argued that the new construction would make the area safer and smooth traffic flow, but nearly all of the 100 residents who attended the hearing disagreed. Estimated to cost $5.4 million, the plan was called excessive and detrimental to the character of nearby Stony Creek. It would invite commercial development and increase traffic, they added. As glum-faced transportation officials looked on, other residents offered design plans, which seemed to many in the audience to make more sense. "If you're going to spend $5.4 million, why don't you just buy the truck stop and close it?" asked Herbert Camp, a resident.
One of the most contentious parts of the proposed plan is the widening of Gould Lane, a residential street near the exit. Doing so would entail taking land from some residents and cutting down older trees. In an emotional presentation, Linda Casanova, who lives on the road, called such portions of the plan overkill.
"You want to widen Gould Lane and make it more dangerous," she said. "This is ridiculous."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MAINE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MAINE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; FEDERAL AID (US) GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (77%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); HISTORY (73%); TRENDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); REFERENDUMS (65%); LAWYERS (62%); 

PERSON: RIERDEN, ANDI HENRY W BIELAWA (57%); JAMES PORTLEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



46 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 8; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Beyond Piecework for Mentally Disabled

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER 

 BODY:
SIX months ago, Ervin (Jimmy) Villa, went to work at Industrial Overall Services in New Rochelle. For Mr. Villa, 38, who has had problems in the past with substance abuse and learning disabilities, his job as a laborer in the silk-screen department of Industrial Overall represented economic opportunity, independence and the chance to "feel like somebody."
Trends in mental health are changing. People are no longer confined to sheltered workplaces, but are being trained to be as vocationally independent as possible, said Paul Levine, associate executive director of Guidance Center Industries in New Rochelle, the center that trained Mr. Villa. Guidance Center Industries, the vocational rehabilitation division of the Guidance Center, a nonprofit community psychiatric clinic licensed by the state, has reinvented itself over the last two years, Mr. Levine said. 
 "Twenty years ago, vocational programs for the disabled were largely confined to sheltered workshops," he said. "Our clients were given piecework assignments, or simple tasks such as packaging combs and assembling ballpoint pens under supervision, and those were pretty much the only job opportunities for them. Now the workshop, once a major part of our program, is just one of many of our vocational programs."
The Guidance Center served 4,101 clients last year and of those, 700 received job training at Guidance Center Industries.
Clients are referred to the Guidance Center Industries by New York State Vocational and Educational Services for Individuals With Disabilites, from hospitals, schools and doctors. Guidance Center has a budget of $7 million a year financed by the State Department of Mental Health, State Vocational and Educational Services for Individuals With Disabilites, United Way, private donors and fund-raising efforts.
Last year Guidance Center Industries, which has its headquarters at 363 Huguenot Street in New Rochelle, was named the "outstanding rehabilitation program" in New York State in recognition of its pioneering of vocational programs, which were designed for individuals with mental and physical difficulties, and its success in preparing them for jobs in outside businesses.
"The changes in our programs in two and a half years have led to 82 outside job placements in 1994, which represents an increase of 105 percent compared to 1993 and a 925 percent increase compared to 1992," Mr. Levine said. "I feel that our success in training and placing the disabled shows that given opportunities, people with mental disabilities don't have to be limited. With the proper training, encouragement and support, they can move into the competitive workplace. And it also instills a new awareness and sensitivity in the general public, when they realize that people with mental disabilities can do a real day's work."
One of the Guidance Center Industries' programs is a clerical program, run jointly with Monroe Business College. It covers word processing, office skills and office practices. Former graduates of this program have been placed at the Bank of New York, Ciba and Monroe Business College, Mr. Levine said. Another program, called LAMP (for Landscaping and Maintenance Procedures), placed 17 people in jobs last year.
Another program, sponsored by New York State Vocational and Educational Services for Individuals With Disabilites, is called Fast Pace. "It is actually a departure from the typical programming found in most agencies, and the way it works is similar to an employment agency," Mr. Levine said, adding that under the Fast Pace program Guidance Center Industries only gets a fee from an employer after a client has been on the job for 60 days. "But we offer placement assistance only to people who are disabled in the county."
Fast Pace clients represent a diverse group.
"We work with individuals who have master's degrees and with those who haven't graduated from high school," Mr. Levine said. "They have disabilities ranging from substance abuse and mental illness to physical impairments and learning disabilities. We have made placements that go from part-time assembler to a program coordinator in a community center."
Short-term and long-term community experiences in a variety of workplaces is obtained in a program called MOVE, which gives Guidance Center clients experience in fields like nursing homes, retail stores and libraries. "The goal here," Mr. Levine said, "is not only to introduce them to different fields of work but to give them the confidence to move on to the next step in their vocational development."
Another program, started in the spring last year, he said, is Project Art, meaning Advancement through Recognition of Talent. "This is an unusual project designed to develop individual and group projects that can be turned into business and job opportunities," he said. "It fosters vocational developments through use of talent. For example, when Jimmy Villa came to us, we found he had tremendous artistic talent and he was a perfect candidate for this program. The goals are empowerment, recovery and the use of talents to earn a living. Several of our participants, including Mr. Villa, have had their art exhibited at the New Rochelle Library and at First Fidelity Bank. And First Fidelity has bought two of Mr. Villa's paintings and has them on display."
Despite the gains, and the clients' vocational evaluations, the extensive occupational training, the internships and job coaching, it is still not easy, Mr. Levine said, to convince those in the business community to hire Guidance Center clients.
"Initially, they are very skeptical," he said. "The perception is that our people won't be able to carry their weight in the real world, that they will be more of a problem to them than other employees. We only ask them to try our people, to give them a chance."
The Guidance Center's 10 job developers actively seek employment for the center's clients. Many clients have successfully been placed in businesses ranging from banks to fast-food restaurants and retail stores.
Robert O'Brien, president of Industrial Overall Services, is one of the satisfied employers.
"When I was first approached about taking someone from the Guidance Center, I must admit I had some hesitation," Mr. O'Brien said. "But finally I was persuaded to give Jimmy Villa a chance at what was a low-paying job: cleaning screens in our silk-screen department. That was six months ago and what can I say? Jimmy isn't just good, he is a super employee. He hasn't missed a minute of work, and he's unbelievably quick and clever. For instance, in one month, just by watching people in the department, he figured out how to work the automated equipment. And I've taught him the rest. Now he is the manager of the silk-screen department, with people who work under him. He's a very talented artist, and he probably won't be with us forever, but he will go on to a good career."
Mr. Villa said: "I look up to Mr. O'Brien. He taught me silk-screening. Working for him has been a whole new eye-opener. I always wished I could get a job with art work, but until I went to the Guidance Center I was in bad shape. I was also dyslectic. I was always an artist, but I couldn't read or write. Now I feel like somebody. I am making money; I got a raise. I'm in charge of the equipment and of two other people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jimmy Villa, a silk-screen worker at an overalls manufacturer, got his job through Guidance Center Industries of New Rochelle. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GUIDANCE CENTER INDUSTRIES BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (50%); GUIDANCE CENTER (94%); MONROE BUSINESS COLLEGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUIDANCE CENTER INDUSTRIES GUIDANCE CENTER (94%); MONROE BUSINESS COLLEGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: VOCATIONAL TRAINING; HANDICAPPED; MENTAL RETARDATION DISABLED PERSONS (91%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (90%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MENTAL RETARDATION (77%); DISABLED WORKERS (77%); TRENDS (76%); FUNDRAISING (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY PAUL LEVINE (90%); ERVIN (JIMMY) VILLA (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



47 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: The Ways and Means Of Saving Farmland

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
FIVE years ago, Nathan R. Cushman was considering moving the family dairy operation from Lebanon to upstate New York, where it costs less to farm. But since then he's added hundreds of acres to the farm's holdings, constructed a huge barn off Route 87, and nearly doubled the size of his herd, to more than 1,200 cows.
What made the difference was the state's Farmland Preservation Program, Mr. Cushman said. The State Department of Agriculture has invested heavily in Lebanon, acquiring conservation easements for nine farms and a total of 2,433 acres in the rural eastern Connecticut town. 
 "If there's wasn't a program like that, we really would have been forced to go, because we wouldn't have been able to afford the additional land," Mr. Cushman said. "Dairy farms need a large amount of land to grow corn and hay for the cows."
So far the Farmland Preservation Program has helped 162 farms, totaling 24,650 acres. It remains popular with farmers, as evidenced by 130 applications to enter the 17-year-old program, and new ones filed at a rate of two or three a month.
As the program matures, its focus has been honed. Rather than trying to save, say, the last farm in a suburbanized area, it is concentrating on stretches where agriculture is still thriving, and can continue.
"Rather than just preserving the token farm in an area, they're looking at preserving clusters of farms," said Walter E. Welz, executive director of the Connecticut Farm Bureau. "That's the intelligent approach. Farmers cannot exist as islands."
Joseph J. Dippel, director of the program, agreed: "Farmers make their own best neighbors, as opposed to suburbs where people are more likely to complain about odors or strays." He also said that preserving clusters of agriculture preserves seed, fertilizer and equipment dealers as well.
As a result of the department's focus, most of the farms in the program are now either in Litchfield County (39 farms), the Connecticut River Valley (40 farms) or eastern Connecticut (67 farms).
The program, authorized by the legislature in 1978, does not purchase farms outright. Instead, the state acquires the development rights to the farm. So far the state has spent $76 million on the program, which works out to just under $3,000 per acre, a 20 percent savings over the average appraised value of the development rights. The farmer still holds the land title, so the state does not have to maintain it, and the farmer continues to pay local property taxes. But the land can not be sold for development. Building must be agriculture-related, such as barns or storage sheds, and cannot cover more than 5 percent of the property.
Mr. Cushman, who has applied to put another 386 acres into the preservation program, said that with support from the program farmers can put their money into more productive assets, like equipment, a larger herd or a better milking parlor.
"You can lease land to keep down your capital costs, but then you never know from year to year if you're going to have enough land to feed your herd," Mr. Cushman explained. "If the owner gets an offer to sell the land for development, it could be gone before you put in your next crop."
David T. Armstrong, who put his 225-acre nursery in Suffield into the program, said specialty agriculture can be viable in Connecticut without the program. But he says there is another reason farmers sell their development rights. Many farmers see it as the only way to make sure what they have built up will not disappear when they are gone.
"Farmers develop a certain emotional attachment to their properties," Mr. Armstrong said. "This is one way to keep it the way you like it. You might think your property is beautiful the way it is, but eventually you'll be gone and your kids might not see it that way."
For the same reason, many municipal officials support farmland preservation. Lebanon First Selectwoman Joyce R. Okonuk, a lifelong resident of that town, said when she was growing up most families had a small farm; today the bulk of active farmland in town is the 2,433 acres in the preservation program.
"If that land had become subdivisions or large developments the town would have lost its rural character," Mrs. Okonuk said. "We've seen that happen in other towns around us. Right now the community is a good blend of farming and residential properties. That's what makes the town unique."
In her opinion, "Development is good, but it has to happen at a rate that the town can control."
The encroachment of the suburbs on rural communities like Lebanon has required some adjustments by farmers and by their new neighbors, Mrs. Okonuk said. But the fact that townspeople supported construction of a regional vocational-agriculture center at its new high school is evidence that farming is still accepted.
"There have been a few folk who've had some difficulty adjusting," Mrs. Okonuk said. "But for the most part they're adapting, and they're thankful that farming is surviving in town. And I think it's important that you remember, when you're eating that ear of corn or drinking that glass of milk, how it got to the market."
The preservation program does not require that the land remain in active agricultural use, so farmers have the option, if their operations are not profitable, of letting the land go fallow.
The Farmland Preservation Program has set a goal of purchasing the development rights to 140,000 acres statewide, which Mr. Dippel, the program director, said was identified by studies at UConn as the critical mass for preserving agriculture.
While Connecticut is still far short of its goal, Robert C. Wagner, director of state and local programs for American Farmland Trust, said none of the nine states that have farmland preservation programs have reached their goal, although four states -- Maryland, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Vermont -- have put more land into their programs.
Mr. Wagner says the trust is urging the Federal Government to provide financial support to states with Purchase of Development Rights programs, because the states are losing farmland at rates far beyond what they are saving.
In Connecticut, for instance, 1,500 acres a year on average were preserved in the period 1980 to 1994. But according to the Federal Department of Agriculture, during that same period the average loss of prime farmland to residential or commercial development approached 8,500 acres a year. "These programs have become a race against development," Mr. Wagner said.
Mr. Welz of the state chapter of the Farm Bureau said the limited financial resources of the state has traditionally hampered the program. In years when the economy is booming and the state has money available, land prices skyrocket; when the economy goes into a downturn, the state has no money for the program even though prices slide.
"Relatively speaking, you can get some much better buys today than you could five or six years ago," Mr. Welz said. "You get much better bang for your buck today -- but because times are hard the state doesn't have as many bucks. It's kind of a vicious cycle."
Dr. Emilio Pagoulatos, head of the Department of Agriculture and Resource Economics at the University of Connecticut, said the state should not consider the program just as preservation of agriculture, but as preservation of the rural way of life.
"The demand for open space would justify significant investment," Dr. Pagoulatos said. "There will come a time when we'll miss the Connecticut countryside, and then it will be too late for preservation."
For the 1996 fiscal year the state has allocated $3 million for farmland preservation, less than the $5 million for the 1995 fiscal year, and far below the $10 million a year peak in the 1980's. Still, it's a substantial amount given cuts to other programs, the program's advocates note.
"If I were to assign the Connecticut program a single characteristic, it would be endurance," said Mr. Wagner. "They never get a huge appropriation, but each year they get something. That keeps it moving forward."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nathan R. Cushman's dairy farm in Lebanon once was in danger of relocating to New York State. That was before the Farmland Preservation Program stepped in, allowing him to add hundreds of acres to the land that feeds his herd. (Helen Neafsey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE DAIRY FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); AGRICULTURE (76%); FERTILIZERS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); SUBURBS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PROPERTY TAX (63%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A NATHAN R CUSHMAN (83%); JOYCE R OKONUK (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



48 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1677 words

HEADLINE: Anti-Smoking Law Moves On Over Objections

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
AFTER an abortive effort in the late 1980's, Westchester is again preparing an anti-smoking law -- this time, one that would be the strictest of its kind in the state. The county's tough regulation would ban smoking in all eating areas of restaurants by next year, in restaurant bars by 1998 and in taverns by 2000.
The proposed changes to the county's health code are expected to pass over the objections of restaurateurs and bar owners who claim that their rights are being denied and that their businesses are sure to suffer. 
 "Westchester is pushing the envelope," said Tom Scaramellino, president of the 200-member Westchester-Rockland chapter of the New York State Restaurant Association. "They are putting restaurants here at an unfair advantage."
Mr. Scaramellino, who owns Crystal Bay Dining and Catering in Peekskill, predicted that if the code changes are enforced, many diners will go to restaurants in nearby counties in New York and Connecticut, where smoking laws are less strict.
"We won't be on a level playing field in Westchester," he said.
But county officials explained that arguments citing economics, personal rights or equality with other restaurants have little to do with the issue. They said that even when smokers are separated, a restaurant's employees and its nonsmoking diners are still being exposed to second-hand smoke.
"It's a matter of life and death, and we can't fool ourselves any more," said Dr. Mark Rapoport, the county's Health Commissioner.
The Federal Food and Drug Administration has labeled tobacco a Class A carcinogen, equal to asbestos and radon. And the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports that 418,690 American smokers a year die from tobacco-related causes; another 53,000 nonsmokers die because they have been exposed to others' smoke.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also says that tobacco kills more Americans each year than alcohol, cocaine, crack, heroin, car accidents, homicide, suicide, fires and AIDS combined -- a fact that Westchester officials and anti-smoking groups often use in their campaign to pass the new law.
But as Michael Denslow, the owner of Hoppfields, a restaurant in Bedford, discovered, even when restaurateurs prefer a no-smoking policy, the public may not be ready. When he opened his 125-seat restaurant 15 months ago, it was strictly a no-smoking establishment. All did not go as planned, however, and "there were arguments night after night," Mr. Denslow said, because smokers insisted on having seats set aside for them. "So I gave in," Mr. Denslow said. "I let them have their way, because I have to run a business. I thought the public would welcome the policy, but I was wrong."
At Azuma, a Japanese restaurant with 30 seats in Hartsdale, however, the owner, Anthony Saegusa, said that even though state law requires no separation of smokers in restaurants of his size, he banned smoking, and customers went along with it.
But Mr. Scaramellino, in Peekskill, said the job of a restaurateur "is to please customers, not to say no to them."
At the Broadway Grille in Irvington, the proprietor, Gregory Nilsson, is also worrying about what he will tell his customers, although it will be business as usual for him and other tavern owners for the next five years. Mr. Nilsson said: "But what do I say to my customers then? Do I tell them to get out if they are going to smoke? That's crazy. It would be like chasing business away."
Restaurateurs like Mr. Scaramellino and Mr. Nilsson plan to protest the proposed health code changes at a public hearing next month.
But Mr. Denslow said he "would embrace the new law."
Proponents of the changes cite studies showing that businesses do not suffer when smoking regulations go into effect.
A study by the University of California published in 1992 in the American Journal of Public Health looked at taxable sales in 15 California and Colorado cities with smoking bans and 15 cities without them and found "no significant effect" on sales in cities with the ordinances. "The presence of a 100 percent smoke-free ordinance had no significant effect on total restaurant sales in any community," the study said. Surprisingly, the study also said that restaurant sales increased about 14 percent in some cases when a smoke-free ordinance was in effect.
Douglas Martin, president of the American Lung Association of Hudson Valley, recalled that similar arguments about business and personal rights were heard in the late 1980's when the county passed smoking restrictions and in 1990 when the state's Clean Indoor Air Act took effect.
The county's anti-smoking law, passed by the Board of Legislators, never garnered the support of anti-smoking coalitions because it was considered too weak, Mr. Martin said. It was later rescinded when the state passed its law.
New York's Clean Indoor Air Act limits smoking in most public places, including stores, schools, taxis, work sites and most restaurants. Smoking is allowed only in private homes, bars, some hotel rooms, tobacco businesses, limousines under private hire, some boxes in indoor arenas, restaurants with 51 or fewer seats and at private social functions.
"We have come a long way," Mr. Martin said. "It was controversial to think of separating diners then. The restaurant owners were very upset."
This time, the county's smoking law would be enacted not by the Board of Legislators but by the 12-member Board of Health, an appointed panel represented by doctors, municipal leaders, a county legislator, a restaurateur and others.
Dr. Douglas G. Aspros, president of the Board of Health, said the code changes under consideration in Westchester reflected a changing climate.
"It is one thing for people to choose to smoke themselves," he said. "It's quite another to expose others unwillingly. We are looking at this strictly as a health issue."
Lillian R. Jones, co-chairwoman of Communities for a Smoke-Free New York, said, "Given the fact that tobacco is considered a Class A carcinogen, how many people would be willing to sit next to a pile of asbestos?" The organization represents local chapters of the American Cancer Society, the American Lung Association and the American Heart Association and the League of Women Voters of Westchester, Rockland, Orange and Putnam Counties.
The Board of Health expects to complete the wording of the code changes later this month, hold a public hearing in November and begin enforcing the new law by Jan. 1.
Contrary to New York City's anti-smoking law, which exempts restaurants with 35 or fewer seats, Westchester's ordinance would make no such distinction. As proposed, it would ban smoking in all eating establishments, regardless of size, Dr. Aspros said. Also, New York City allows smoking in some bar sections of restaurants, provided they are separated from the dining room.
Harold E. Vogt, president and chief executive officer of the Westchester County Chamber of Commerce, called the proposed code changes in Westchester "even more onerous than New York's." He added, "We're concerned."
He said that the hospitality industry, which has shown steady growth in the county, could suffer if meeting and convention planners, many representing foreign groups, which are used to being able to smoke, take their business elsewhere.
The cigarette manufacturer Philip Morris Companies, which has offices in Rye Brook, is also opposing the code changes in Westchester. The company threatened to move its corporate offices from New York City if a tough smoking ban was passed there. But Mary Coughlin, a spokeswoman, said the company has no plans to leave New York City now.Its policy in Westchester is that restaurateurs here should determine smoking policies, not the government.
She also cited studies on the impact of smoking bans on restaurants that contradict aspects of the University of California research. A survey commissioned by the New York Tavern and Restaurant Association showed that nearly 6 in 10 New York City restaurants near suburban county borders lost customers because of New York's smoking restrictions. In an April 1994 Charlton Research Poll of restaurant owners in localities with smoking bans, 32 percent reported a loss of business.
Meanwhile, efforts to prevent teen-agers from smoking are growing, especially since President Clinton has given the fight the full backing of the White House. In August, the Food and Drug Administration proposed banning cigarette vending machines and self-service racks of cigarettes. It also recommended that stores be required to see proof of age before selling cigarettes. Manufacturers, distributors and retailers would be held responsible for sales of cigarettes to minors. And the sale of single cigarettes or "kiddie packs" of cigarettes would be banned.
In Westchester, the Health Department reported that during a sting operation in August, 41 of 55 establishments sold cigarettes to under-18-year-olds, in violation of the State Adolescent Tobacco Use Prevention Act. The minimum fine for violating the law is $100, with subsequent fines as much as $1,000. Repeat offenders risk losing their license to sell cigarettes.
Surveys in the Hudson Valley region last year by anti-tobacco coalitions revealed that about 4,700 packs of cigarettes were illegally being sold to minors each day.
In Hastings-on-Hudson last week, two teen-age smokers reported that they traveled to Yonkers, where they could easily buy cigarettes. "Lots of stores sell to us," said Richard Mullin, 15, a half-a-pack-a-day smoker. "It's easy for minors to get them."
Commissioner Rapoport at the county's Health Department has said that 60 percent of all smokers start by the age of 14 and 75 percent by 18. Fred Kelly, 14, who started smoking when he was 10, said last week that even though there was an all-out effort to stop teen-agers from smoking: "It won't do any good. Kids are aware of the problems, but they don't care. They figure they will quit later, before it becomes a health hazard."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The smoking scene at Dicey Reilly's bar in Yonkers, above, and youths on Warburton Avenue in Hastings-on-Hudson. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RESTAURANTS; BARS SMOKING BANS (93%); SMOKING (92%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (91%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); COUNTIES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (78%); CARCINOGENS (73%); ASBESTOS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); COCAINE (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); HOMICIDE (64%); HEROIN (64%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA MICHAEL DENSLOW (73%); TOM SCARAMELLINO (71%); GREGORY NILSSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



49 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Thinking (Just Thinking) About the Impossible

BYLINE: By DAVIDSON GOLDIN 

 BODY:
It's too soon to write the obituary for Yankee Stadium, but perhaps not too soon to start thinking about what the city would do with the remains.
George M. Steinbrenner 3d, the team's principal owner, has set the middle of next year as a deadline to decide where the Yankees will play after their lease on the stadium expires in 2002. Mr. Steinbrenner complains often about the 72-year-old stadium's problems with parking, traffic congestion and crime, and says the team could make more money by leaving the Bronx. In the last year, he has rejected 13 proposals from the Giuliani administration to keep the team in the city. And last month, New Jersey officials said they would be happy to see the New Jersey Yankees at the Meadowlands Sports Complex. 
 Mr. Steinbrenner is a shrewd negotiator, and all his maneuvering could be just a ploy. But New York has lost four pro sports teams in four decades: the Dodgers (1957, to Los Angeles), the baseball Giants (1957, to San Francisco), the football Giants (1975, to the Meadowlands) and the Jets (1983, to the Meadowlands).
Just as New York sans the Yankees is unthinkable to many, so was Ebbets Field minus the Dodgers. But after they decamped for L.A., a hastily formed Ebbets Field Productions leased the stadium to various sporting events and theatrical, musical and novelty attractions. Leading off the first post-Dodger event, on Memorial Day weekend 1958, was the stunt car driver Jack Kochman and his "helldrivers."
So if the Yankees do leave, what will happen to Yankee Stadium? The Parks Department says it costs $3.5 million a year to operate, including maintenance, equipment and electricity. Without a professional sports team, the department estimates the operating cost at just over $1 million. What could attract enough people to raise that sort of money? Who would dare to tear it down?
The questions are fraught with political risk. Several public officials wanted nothing to do with thinking out loud, for public consumption, about the notion of the Bronx without the Yankees. Still, New York is New York, and plenty of people were willing to offer their two cents:
 DAVIDSON GOLDIN
 
 RON DELSENER
 Concert Promoter
 I could do concerts there, although the truth is it's not an ideal place to do concerts because there's not parking. Still, it is a prestigious thing to say, 'I played Yankee Stadium,' and some acts do it just to say they did it. We've done it before, we could do it again. I'd certainly take a shot at it, and maybe we could do it three, four times a summer. My first choice is to bring back the Brooklyn Dodgers, or bring in another team.

 EDWARD I. KOCH
 Former Mayor
 You could turn it into tennis courts -- put a bubble over it so it's open all year. Or you could turn it into a stadium that would be available to younsters who are in baseball leagues and use our parks and want the feeling of professionalism. I wouldn't knock it down. I'd find some use for it. You might want to bring in gatherings of large outside groups, like the Jehovah's Witnesses, to use it.

 WARNER LeROY
 Restaurateur
 Bring in another baseball team, or use it for concerts or build a theme park possibly, like Great Adventure. The best idea is to get another baseball team, or if you could even get soccer going. Or bull-fighting -- that would be great.

 RICHARD A. KAHAN
 Developer and president, Urban Assembly
 There are a lot of exciting possibilities -- everything from restaurants to education to entertainment. We started thinking about it a year ago, but then decided to wait until the Yankees decided what they were doing. We could do a theme high school, which would encourage people looking at careers in sports management, sports recreation and sports medicine.

 FERNANDO FERRER
 Bronx Borough President
 We ought to put together a group of wealthy and concerned New Yorkers and buy another baseball team, bring it to New York City, and then when Steinbrenner challenges that, as he predictably will do, we should walk into Federal court and challenge baseball's antitrust exemption. We can then take the name Yankee Stadium off and put up Bomber Stadium, and call the new team the Bronx Bombers.

 GAY TALESE
 Author
 They could put a roof on it, and turn it into a good homeless shelter. Or it could be a wonderful park for the underprivileged -- kids otherwise limited to the cracked cement of housing projects. Green grass! If you wanted a commercial use, it could ba convention center, and would do a better job than the Coliseum or the Javits Center. That would resurrect some of the supposedly lost economy of the Bronx.

 PHIL RIZUTTO
 Broadcaster and ex-Yankee shortstop
 They'd probably make a fortune just breaking it into pieces and selling it as souvenirs. Unfortunately, it's too expensive to run for high school or even college baseball. Football draws enough fans, but not baseball.

 STAN MARTUCCI
 Owner, Stan's Sports Bar and Sports World, opposite the Stadium
 What we're dealing with here is a big white elephant. It's very depressing to me. What do I do with my business? I rely on the Yankees. How about getting another team in here? I saw what they did to Ebbets Field when the Brooklyn Dodgers left; they put up apartment complexes. How do you just tear down Yankee Stadium? It's kind of sacred.

 BETSY GOTBAUM
 Former Parks Commissioner
 The cost of tearing it down would be almost prohibitive, and it's a great landmark. I would turn it into a wonderful city-owned recreation center for the South Bronx. If we had the money, it would be wonderful to turn it into a giant swimming pool. To break even, you'd have to go after big concerts and big revenue -- Nelson Mandela brought in $1 million.

 JOE BAUM
 Chairman, Rainbow Room
 It would make a heck of a supervised all-sports park -- tying it in with the park that already exists across the road -- that would be used for spectator as well as participatory sports. That seems like a logical, fresh air kind of thing for the Bronx.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers prepared the grass at Yankee Stadium for the 1957 season. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (82%); NEW YORK GIANTS (82%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (82%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); NEW YORK GIANTS (82%); NEW YORK JETS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (82%); NEW YORK GIANTS (82%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (82%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); NEW YORK GIANTS (82%); NEW YORK JETS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: YANKEE STADIUM (NYC); BASEBALL STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); TENNIS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (70%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (70%); EVENT MARKETING (64%); 

PERSON: GOLDIN, DAVIDSON GEORGE M STEINBRENNER (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



50 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 30; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 2072 words

HEADLINE: A Theory of Almost Everything

BYLINE: By John Horgan; John Horgan is a senior writer for Scientific American. His book "The End of Science" will be published next year.

 BODY:

HIDDEN ORDER
How Adaptation Builds Complexity.
By John H. Holland.
Illustrated. 185 pp. Reading, Mass.:
Helix Books/Addison-Wesley
Publishing Company. $24.
 
AT HOME IN THE UNIVERSE
The Search for Laws of Self-Organization and Complexity.
By Stuart Kauffman.
Illustrated. 321 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press. $25.
 
ARE WE ALONE?
Philosophical Implications of the Discovery of Extraterrestrial Life.
By Paul Davies.
Illustrated. 160 pp. New York:
Basic Books. $20.
 
FRONTIERS OF COMPLEXITY
The Search for Order in a Chaotic World.
By Peter Coveney and Roger Highfield.
Illustrated. 462 pp. New York:
Fawcett Columbine. $27.50. 
IN 1993, Gottfried Mayer-Kress, a physicist at the University of Illinois, offered advice, in a press release, to American officials agonizing over the conflicts in Somalia and Bosnia: stop viewing the Somalian and Serbian warlords as "bad guys" and think of them instead as "parameters" within a "self-organizing complex adaptive system." In this way, Mr. Mayer-Kress suggested, the officials might come up with solutions to the crisis.
Mr. Mayer-Kress is no crackpot. He is a respected member of a scientific discipline that studies something called complexity. What is complexity? Good question. One practitioner has counted at least 31 different definitions, each of which has its adherents. These often involve other protean buzzwords like "chaos," "information," "self-organization" and "emergence." One common, and revealing, synonym for "complex" is "interesting." Complexity, it seems, is in the eye of the beholder.
Investigators of complexity -- let's call them complexologists -- may not agree on what they are studying, but they share a dissatisfaction with the "reductionist" science of the past. They are also imbued with an almost religious belief in the power of mathematics and computers -- or "macro scopes" as they are called by some complex ologists -- to transcend the limits of conventional science and reveal the order underlying the messiness of nature -- and even of human affairs.
This faith stems from a seductive syllogism: Computers, by following very simple rules, can generate astonishingly complicated patterns. Nature also generates astonishingly complicated patterns. Therefore, simple rules must underlie the patterns of nature, and, with the help of computers, scientists can root out those rules. Of course, simple rules do underlie nature. They are embodied in quantum mechanics, the theory of natural selection, molecular genetics. But complexologists insist that much more powerful rules remain to be discovered.
Scientists and journalists have been churning out books on complexity for almost a decade or so now. (My favorite is still "The Dreams of Reason," by the physicist Heinz Pagels, published in 1988.) Although complexologists have not really accomplished much yet, at least relative to their ambitions, the books have maintained their exuberantly optimistic tone.
The batch considered here is no exception. Perhaps the most modest is by John H. Holland, a computer scientist with joint appointments at the University of Michigan and the Santa Fe Institute, the self-anointed headquarters of complexity. More than 20 years ago, Mr. Holland invented genetic algorithms, which are pieces of computer code that can "evolve," that is, rearrange themselves at random in order to become more efficient at solving a problem.
Genetic algorithms, Mr. Holland has proposed, might lead to a general, mathematical theory that can illuminate a wide range of "complex adaptive systems," from immune systems to human brains to entire economies. In "Hidden Order: How Adaptation Builds Complexity," he moves briskly past the obligatory grand rhetoric and plunges with gusto into nuts-and-bolts descriptions -- complete with equations and flow charts and diagrams -- of how such a theory might work.
He has the heart of an engineer. He wants to solve complexity-related problems, and not just any problems but big ones: AIDS, mental illness, inner-city decay. He envisions computer-based "flight simulators" that would allow officials to foresee, for instance, how a low-income housing project might affect an inner-city neighborhood.
He only briefly considers whether a simulation of downtown Detroit would also apply to Los Angeles. But that is the crux of the problem. Would any official really trust a model general enough to apply to both cities, or to all cities and to human immune systems? Another question: Is a cure for AIDS more likely to emerge from mathematics and computer science than from the same kind of gritty, bench-top work that led to the discovery of the AIDS virus?
Mr. Holland's ambitions pale beside those of his colleague Stuart Kauffman, a full-time resident of the Santa Fe Institute and one of the most charismatic of the complexologists. "At Home in the Universe" is a condensed, passionately written version of Mr. Kauff man's 709-page magnum opus, "The Origins of Order" (1993). For decades, Mr. Kauffman has been performing computer simulations of abstract, interacting "agents," which can represent everything from molecules and genes to whole organisms and companies.
He also foresees practical consequences stemming from his work. His simulations, he suggests, may serve as a guide for managers of large, complicated systems, like the United States. He also devotes a chapter to the burgeoning field of directed evolution, in which chemists generate new enzymes, genes and other useful molecules by inducing them to "compete" among themselves.
BUT Mr. Kauffman once considered a career as a philosopher, and his hunger for deep truths has persisted. He believes his models have revealed "laws of complexity" at play in the universe that counter the inexorable drift toward heat death -- toward universal sameness -- decreed by the second law of thermodynamics. In his view, these laws of complexity, more than the random siftings of natural selection, made the appearance of life on earth and its subsequent evolution not only possible but probable. The refrain "we the expected" runs through Mr. Kauffman's book like a mantra.
This same idea enlivens a new book by the Australian physicist Paul Davies. In "Are We Alone?" Mr. Davies considers not complexity per se but the likelihood that there are other conscious beings in the universe. He warns at one point that we cannot assume life like ours is probable simply because we exist; he compares such reasoning with that of the lottery winner who thinks winning is easy.
But then Mr. Davies indulges in this very fallacy. Pointing to the work of Mr. Kauff man and others, he bravely declares that not only life but also intelligence -- intelligence capable of discovering mathematical laws -- is inevitable. There must be other conscious beings in the universe. He reiterates the message of his previous books, notably "The Mind of God" (1992): the fact that we can discern highly mathematical laws ruling the cosmos suggests that it has a purpose or plan, one in which we play a role.
Mr. Davies is a writer of great charm and lucidity, and his message has been well received. Earlier this year he won the million-dollar Templeton Prize, which is bestowed annually on someone who has "advanced public understanding of God or spirituality." But one wishes he would take up the only theological question that really matters: if there is a plan to the universe, why does it require so much human suffering? Even if there are laws of complexity that made us inevitable, how is that fact supposed to comfort a Bosnian woman who has seen her daughter raped and slaughtered?
Given the extraordinary claims, both worldly and spiritual, being made for complexity, one yearns for a hard-nosed appraisal of the field. "Frontiers of Complexity" is hardly that. Peter Coveney, a physicist, and Roger Highfield, a journalist, both British, echo and even amplify the claims of Mr. Holland, Mr. Kauffman and Mr. Davies. In the view of Mr. Coveney and Mr. Highfield, complexity may lead to the creation of artificial brains and ecosystems, to the elimination of disease and warfare and pollution, and to the building of "a bridge between science and the human condition."
But they are good reporters. Buried in the hype are nuggets of important criticism. They point out, for example, that a concept called the "edge of chaos," which Mr. Kauffman and others have adopted as their definition of complexity, has been studied and rejected as flawed by several of Mr. Kauffman's own colleagues at the Santa Fe Institute.
The British authors note that John Holland's genetic algorithms are not as clever in practice as they are in theory; so far, the algorithms have proved useful only for limited applications. One catch is that the programmer must intercede to insure that they evolve in the right direction; the "watchmaker" (to borrow Richard Dawkins's phrase) is hardly blind. Moreover, because it is usually impossible to trace the steps that lead genetic algorithms to a solution, programmers may not entrust them with important problems.
Mr. Coveney and Mr. Highfield also provide overdue criticism of a popular candidate for a theory of complexity: self-organized criticality. The theory's paradigmatic system is a sand pile; as one drops sand on a pile, it "organizes" itself into a "critical" state, in which each additional grain of sand is increasingly likely to trigger an avalanche down the sides of the pile. In the same way, say adherents of self-organized criticality, many systems -- brains, economies and so on -- tend to approach a state in which a small disruption can alter the entire system.
STUART KAUFFMAN has become a proselytizer for self-organized criticality, as has Vice President Al Gore. In "Earth in the Balance," Mr. Gore wrote that self-organized criticality had helped him understand not only the sensitivity of the environment to potential disruptions but also "change in my own life." But experiments done at the University of Chicago and elsewhere have shown that self-organized criticality does not even provide very good descriptions of sand piles.
Finally, Mr. Coveney and Mr. Highfield review developments in the theory of mathematics and computation that cast doubt on the very notion that there is a general theory of complexity. The mathematician Gregory Chaitin, for example, has suggested that as science seeks to provide mathematical descriptions of increasingly complex phenomena, it must keep expanding its base of axioms; to know more, in other words, we must assume more. "Our efforts to create a grand theory of complexity may be built on sand," Mr. Coveney and Mr. Highfield comment.
In fact, this is one of the most peculiar aspects of complexity: according to its own tenets, its lofty goals may be unreachable. As most complexologists freely acknowledge, their mathematical models offer only probabilistic descriptions of nature. "We must give up the pretense of long-term prediction," Mr. Kauffman writes in one of his rare lapses into humility. "We cannot know the true consequences of our own best actions." But as the philosopher of science Karl Popper pointed out, prediction is our best means of distinguishing science from pseudo-science.
The history of 20th-century science should also give complexologists pause. Complexity is simply the latest in a long line of highly mathematical "theories of almost everything" that have gripped the imaginations of scientists in this century. Previous candidates included cybernetics, information theory, catastrophe theory and, of course, chaos. All have gone through a boom-bust cycle, in which great expectations were inevitably followed by only limited applications and hence disappointment.
It is hard not to empathize with the dissatisfaction that underlies complexity. Modern science, for all its power, is still pitifully inadequate when confronted with the problems that really matter, such as poverty, racism or conflict between states. Nor has science answered the deepest of philosophical questions, namely: Were we inevitable, or just a fluke? Complexity enthusiasts think they can find the answers that have eluded their "reductionist" predecessors. Maybe they will. But their own work, and the record of their predecessors, raises another possibility: maybe these answers are beyond the reach of science.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HIDDEN ORDER (BOOK); AT HOME IN THE UNIVERSE (BOOK); ARE WE ALONE? (BOOK); FRONTIERS OF COMPLEXITY (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SOMALIA (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (77%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (76%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOMALIA (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (77%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (76%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PUBLISHING (89%); PHYSICS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); WRITERS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); QUANTUM MECHANICS (74%); EVOLUTION THEORY (72%); RELIGION (62%); 

PERSON: HORGAN, JOHN; HOLLAND, JOHN H; KAUFFMAN, STUART; DAVIES, PAUL; COVENEY, PETER; HIGHFIELD, ROGER JOHN H HOLLAND (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1995



51 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Cost of Taxi Medallions Must Come Down

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Consider the Cabbies" (editorial, Sept. 24): The way to give cabbies a better life and for riders to obtain better service isn't to raise rates. As long as drivers compete for jobs, their net pay can't increase, so any revenue from a meter-rate increase would go to medallion owners. 
 By limiting the number of medallions, New York City creates an artificial shortage of taxis at public expense. A $200,000 medallion equivalent to the same value in stocks or bonds yields $20,000 to $40,000 a year. This is a gift from the public to medallion owners.
We must enable professional cabbies to buy their own medallions. That can happen only if medallions cost something within reach of a small entrepreneur: $10,000 or less.
To bring down the cost, the city can issue more medallions, impose a property tax on the market value of medallions, and even reduce fares.
Cabbies who own medallions will provide polite, competent service in cleaner, more comfortable cabs. They will earn a decent living, rather than meager wages working for someone else.
 
MARY M. CLEVELAND
New York, Sept. 24, 1995
 
The writer is an economist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BONDS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (53%); PROPERTY TAX (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1995



52 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1797 words

HEADLINE: New Word of Advice for the Graduate: Software

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL 

 BODY:
A few years ago, Orion Letizi, an English major who graduated from the University of California at Berkeley, would probably have become a teacher, journalist or graduate student. But just three months after leaving behind Milton and the metaphysical poets, Mr. Letizi is up to his ears in computer software.
He has a job offering technical advice to customers of a company that sells access to the Internet. On his own time, he is learning computer programming. And with six other people, he is starting a service to distribute music on the Internet. 
 "Previous to my current experience I really was at sea when it comes to computers," said Mr. Letizi, who is 23 and lives in San Francisco. "I just walked into it."
Across the country, a generation of college graduates with no technical training is streaming into the software business, drawn by the industry's image as a generator of personal fortunes and cultural excitement.
"There's no doubt that being a computer software company -- people see that as the place to work right now," said Lisa Mars, the vice president of human resources at Computer Associates in Islandia, L.I., the nation's second largest software company. Last spring, recruiters from Computer Associates, who visited more than 75 campuses nationwide, were besieged by applicants with majors ranging from economics to music composition to philosophy.
Call it the Netscape effect, after the company that this summer came up with one of the biggest opening days in Wall Street history when it offered shares to the public, making Marc L. Andreessen, its 24-year-old co-founder, worth $58 million overnight. Or perhaps the phenomenon can be credited to popular culture, which has glamorized computer programmers recently in movies ("The Net," starring Sandra Bullock), in novels ("Microserfs" by Douglas Coupland) and on television ("Dweebs," a new sitcom on CBS).
All this is a reminder that fads in careers are spurred not only by economic opportunity but also by deeper social and cultural currents. In the 1970's, many bright and ambitious graduates went into journalism, inspired by the Watergate reporting of Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein of The Washington Post. In the 1980's, an era marked by preoccupation with wealth, many of the brightest graduates joined Wall Street.
The popularity of software in the mid-90's "is an interesting coming-together of a business that's on the covers of all the business magazines and that's extremely hip and sexy," said Jeremy Ross, an executive at Byron Preiss Multimedia in New York.
"You have kids coming out of school who see it as not only a hip thing to do, but also getting reinforcement from their parents that it's a smart business move," Mr. Ross said.
Many are lured by the prospect of jobs in multimedia, that burgeoning market for on-line services, CD-ROM's and video games that has given a digital flavor to whole neighborhoods in San Francisco and New York.
Creating multimedia products, including displays on the highly popular World Wide Web, the graphical portion of the Internet, requires less programming skill than sheer creativity. Demand is rising for digitally savvy graphic artists, sound engineers, film makers, producers and journalists. The trend reflects a fundamental shift in the computer industry: what was primarily a business tool a few years ago is rapidly becoming a central technology for information and entertainment.
At New York University, applications for the Interactive Telecommunications Program -- a kind of computers-for-poets master's degree -- increased by a "phenomenal" amount for this fall's class of 85 students, said Red Burns, the director. "We had many hundreds of applicants."
Damion Clayton, 25, who left a career as a stockbroker to learn programming in the N.Y.U. program, said: "This is a huge opportunity; it's the dawning of a new era. If you're losing money in this business, you're an idiot."
Few smitten with software's Klondike Fever will ever get rich. Although tales of overnight fortunes like those made at Netscape become legend, computer technology evolves rapidly, leaving many start-up companies out of business.
Salaries in the industry are rising, but they are not comparable with those of corporate lawyers or investment bankers. The median base salary for an entry-level programmer is $31,000, according to a survey by the Software Publishers Association, an industry trade group.
But many drawn to the field distinguish their motives from those of 80's-era graduates who went to Wall Street to make big money fast. Echoing the utopianism of the 1960's that has long been intertwined with the ideology of the personal computer, they talk of software as a cultural revolution, akin to rock-and-roll or mind-expanding drugs.
Troy Whitlock, 25, who studied political science as an undergraduate and is now learning programming at the University of Texas at Austin, said with light self-mockery: "My goals are the same idealistic goals you find in every graduate student: To change the world, to explore the multiple realities that are out there, and to facilitate a resistance to a hierarchical order, which is what the Web is all about."
The Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that demand for computer systems analysts, engineers and scientists will grow faster than almost any other job category in the next 10 years. By 2005, there will be 737,000 more openings than the 663,000 jobs that existed in 1992, the most recent year for which data are available.
Paradoxically, the number of university degrees awarded in computer and information sciences has been falling since the mid-80's. In 1985-86, according to the Department of Education, 41,889 bachelor's degrees were awarded, compared with 24,200 in 1992-93, the most recent year surveyed.
Experts cite several reasons for the drop-off, including weaker math and science preparation by high school students.
Another explanation is that software designers need not have computer science degrees, thanks to advances in programming languages that allow people without technical experience to write software code. Also, the nature of the software industry, which is driven by small companies started by self-taught enthusiasts, tends to attract students who do not have special training.
"A computer science degree is really not that important," said Ms. Mars of Computer Associates, which hires liberal arts majors and others for entry-level jobs advising clients on how to use its business software. "As they learn more and more about the product, they start to get involved in the code and then move into development, where they write code. The type of people we hire have such initiative that they learn on their own."
To be sure, not all software companies are so hospitable to English majors. Human resource officials at Adobe Systems and Lotus Development, two large and prestigious companies, said that nearly all of those hired into the development department have computer science degrees.
But at small Athena Design in Boston, of five developers responsible for writing code, only two were computer science majors. "Two of the others were economics majors, and the third, I don't even know if he graduated from college," said David Pollack, 31, a former lawyer who founded the company. In 1993 Athena brought out a spreadsheet program called Mesa that Mr. Pollack, who has been passionate about computers since he was a teen-ager, designed primarily by himself.
"The nice thing about the software industry is your barriers to entry are very low," he said. "What does it cost to develop the technology? A couple of thousand dollars for the hardware and to feed yourself for a year."
Increasingly, college students in all majors are leaving school far more steeped in computers than their older brothers and sisters. Ninety percent of undergraduates at the University of California at Berkeley take at least one computer course, said Richard Fateman, a professor in the computer science department. At Dartmouth College the campus E-mail system, Blitzmail, is more popular than the telephone, and students can submit homework electronically.
The explosive growth of the World Wide Web and the ease with which original content can be created for it seem to have prompted legions of young people to open the hoods of their computers to discover how they work.
"It is pretty remarkable, the number of 15-year-olds out there suddenly offering their services to write Web pages," said Ken Wasch, president of the Software Publishers Association. "The Web has captured the imagination of technically proficient teen-agers in much the same way that rock-and-roll captured the imagination of my generation."
The job growth in the field of Web design and other multimedia fields can be gauged from last month' edition of the Multimedia Directory, an industry guide, which lists 1,150 software producers, publishers, tool developers and telemedia firms. Many were founded within the last three years. The market for consumer CD-ROM titles is expected to reach $1 billion by the end of 1996.
Regina Joseph, 29, a former music editor of Spin magazine who left print to found a CD-ROM magazine called Blender, said, "I do lectures all the time, and I get so many kids who come up to me and say: 'I really want to do this. Can you point me in a direction?' "
But many in multimedia suspect that the field has overheated. They worry about false expectations for its products and an overly glamorous image of the work involved. A recent survey sponsored by O'Reilly & Associates found that only 5.8 million adults have a direct connection to the Internet, and another 3.9 million consumers use commercial on-line services such as Compuserve and America Online. The numbers were lower than many previous estimates.
Justin Firestone, who graduated from Dartmouth with a degree in art history and archeology in 1992, landed a job in New York a year later helping to create a CD-ROM about Frank Lloyd Wright. With Byron Preiss Multimedia and Microsoft as co-publishers, the well-reviewed title earned him a better job at another multimedia shop, Future Vision.
But recently he left the business, turned off, he said, by the pressure to rapidly pump out titles at the expense of quality. He foresees a brutal industry shakeout after the Christmas sales season, an opinion shared by some analysts. "I keep in touch with friends in many shops," he said, "and the tone is one of tremendous stress."
In the span of two years, Mr. Firestone, 25, has gone from ignorance of software design to expertise to disillusion. "Ultimately, things virtual become unsatisfying," he said.
He wants to return to graduate school, probably to become an archeologist.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Three months after receiving an English degree from the University of California at Berkeley, Orion Letizi has found himself with a career in computer software. He is part of a generation of graduates with no technical training streaming into the business. (John Popplewell for The New York Times) (pg. A11)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (55%); WPO (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD WIDE WEB; BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) CA INC (55%); WASHINGTON POST CO (52%); BYRON PREISS MULTIMEDIA CO INC (50%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD WIDE WEB; BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; SOFTWARE PRODUCTS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); INTERNET (COMPUTER NETWORK); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; FORECASTS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) COMPUTER SOFTWARE (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); INTERNET AUDIO (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); STATISTICS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (71%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (70%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (62%); 

PERSON: GABRIEL, TRIP SANDRA BULLOCK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1995



53 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: DOLE HINTS SWITCH ON TAX CUT PLAN BY SENATE G.O.P.

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1

 BODY:
Senator Bob Dole, the majority leader, raised the prospect today that Senate Republicans might not go along with the entire $245 billion in tax cuts that they had agreed to with their House counterparts. But Speaker Newt Gingrich immediately took issue with the idea, vowing that he and the House were inexorably committed to the full reduction.
"There will be tax cuts," Mr. Dole said on the CBS News program "Face The Nation." But he went on: "There will be credits, child credits for families with children. Will it be $245 billion? I'm not certain at this point." 
Mr. Dole's pronouncement was the first time he had spoken so pessimistically in public about the tax cut, and it came at a time when opinion polls showed that the Democratic strategy of linking budget cuts and planned reductions in Medicare and Medicaid with "a tax cut for the wealthy" was starting to take hold with the public.
Mr. Gingrich, appearing on the ABC program "This Week," said it would be "virtually impossible" to win approval in the House for a smaller tax cut.
"I don't think that the House Republicans who were elected on the Contract With America," Mr. Gingrich said, "are going to walk away from family tax credits for children, or walk off from an economic growth -- tax cut -- in the capital gains, and just say, 'Gee, we now give up.' I think that the Senate voted for $245 billion in tax cuts, and I think the Senate, frankly, is honor-bound to deliver on that."
By publicly wiggling on the tax issue, Mr. Dole raises the prospect of a rift between Senate and House Republicans at a time when the two chambers are already at odds over budget issues.
On Friday, House Republicans revolted against their leadership and joined with Democrats to defeat compromise legislation on spending bills for the Defense Department and the Interior Department because they were angry about Senate-dictated changes.
But Mr. Dole, a candidate for his party's Presidential nomination, finds himself caught between a Democratic attempt to paint the tax cut as a boon to the rich and rank-and-file Senate Republicans who have always been less than enthusiastic about the tax cut and have grown even more wary in recent weeks about delivering on a $245 billion cut.
"I'm hearing from a lot of sources on the Republican side, and not those who've said from the start that they thought that it was too much, but others who are frankly a little surprised by the past couple days," Mr. Dole said.
"There's been some indication, even from conservative Republicans' so-called steering committee, which meets weekly, that maybe we shouldn't try to go all the way to $245 billion," Mr. Dole said.
Three Republican members of the Senate Finance Committee -- Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming and Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York -- have expressed skepticism in recent weeks over the idea of cutting taxes so deeply while at the same time trying to balance the budget by 2002.
Mr. Hatch has predicted the tax cut will never pass, and Mr. D'Amato has said he would rather concentrate on reforming Medicare and Medicaid without "this business of tax cuts."
Mr. Gingrich turned up the political heat on wavering Senate Republicans -- singling out Mr. Dole and the Budget Committee chairman, Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, who is the Senate's point man in the tax fight.
"Senator Dole and Senator Domenici and the Senate Republicans crafted a budget resolution with us that said $245 billion in tax cuts," he said. "The Senate Republicans voted for that resolution. Now, I think that it would be fairly unlikely that they would expect to be able to walk off from that and be able to pass anything in the House."
Mr. Dole said the primary goal of the Senate would be to pass the family tax credit of $500 per child, a capital gains rate reduction and to look at some kind of estate tax relief.
"We'll see what happens," he said.
From the outset, the Senate and the House have been at odds over the tax cut.
The tax cut was one of the pillars of the Contract With America, the campaign manifesto that helped Republicans win control of the House last year but was largely ignored and even derided by some Senate Republicans.
House Republicans originally proposed a $350 billion tax cut over the seven years in which they intend to balance the Federal budget. The Senate Finance Committee responded with a figure of $170 billion, and even then only after it was guaranteed that the money would not be needed to help balance the budget.
Negotiators from both chambers compromised on the $245 billion.
While Mr. Gingrich is not in the political fix in which Mr. Dole finds himself, the tax issue is just as much trouble for the Speaker, who would face a revolt if he tried to reduce the size of the budget cut. Conservative Republicans in the House, and especially its 73-member-strong freshman class that wears fiscal conservatism like a badge of honor, are unyielding in their support of the tax cut..
"I cannot participate in and will strongly oppose a betrayal of our solemn pledge to provide tax relief for all Americans," Representative David M. McIntosh, a freshman Republican from Indiana, said in an interview today with The Associated Press.
President Clinton, too, is part of the tax-cutting frenzy. But his proposed $105 billion tax cut has been a legislative nonstarter in the Republican-controlled Congress.
That has opened the way for Democrats in Congress to beat down the Republican plan and try to turn it into a political hammer.
"In a Congress dominated by a Republican majority, we've got a $270 billion cut in Medicare on the table, a $245 billion cut in taxes for those who don't need it on the table, a shift from the cuts in Medicare to cuts in taxes," Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader, said today on the NBC News program "Meet the Press."
"To pay for a tax cut for the wealthy out of a pool of resources for Medicare is wrong," he said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (57%); MEDICARE (83%); MEDICAID (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (83%); MEDICAID (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE ; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; PUBLIC OPINION; MEDICAID TAX RELIEF (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); MEDICARE (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); MEDICAID (70%); APPROVALS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); HATCH, ORRIN G (SEN); SIMPSON, ALAN K (SEN); DOLE, BOB (SEN); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (89%); ORRIN HATCH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1995



54 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: A VISIT FROM THE POPE: THE FUTURE;
Vatican Is Holding Talks About Papal Visit to Cuba

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 1

 BODY:
Even as Pope John Paul II prepares for a visit to the United States this week, the Vatican is quietly pursuing a diplomatic dialogue with Washington's oldest enemy, Fidel Castro, and has reopened talks with the Cuban Government about the possibility of visiting the Communist-ruled island.
Despite his apprehensions about the pontiff, who played a central role in the collapse of Communism in his native land, Poland, Mr. Castro has proven receptive to those initiatives, according to diplomats and church officials in the United States and Cuba. They predicted that contacts would intensify between the Vatican and Cuba, the only Latin American country that John Paul II has not visited.
The reopening of the talks was reported today in The Miami Herald and on a new Internet report on the Pope's visit produced by The New York Times on the World Wide Web. Quoting unidentified Vatican officials, the report said that the pontiff was expected to raise the issue of Cuba when he meets with President Clinton in Newark on Wednesday.
The report also said that as a result of recent discussions between the Holy See and the Cuban Government there was a "50-50 chance" that the Pope would meet with Mr. Castro in Havana early next year.
Nearly five years ago, Cuba and the Vatican agreed that the Pope would visit Havana, and the Holy See went so far as to announce the trip. No specific date was set, however, and the matter appeared to have a low priority as economic troubles and then political unrest grew in Cuba, while the church there began speaking out with growing frankness on the country's problems.
In a telephone interview this morning, Archbishop Benjamino Stella, the Papal Nuncio in Cuba, declined either to confirm or deny the possibility that John Paul II might visit Cuba soon, or to discuss any other aspect of recent communications between the Vatican and the Cuban Government.
"I know the subject of Cuba is very much in evidence this weekend," he said, referring to speculative reports in Spanish and Italian newspapers recently about prospects for a papal visit to the island, "but I do not want to comment. I ask your forgiveness, but I prefer not to do it."
On Friday, however, a Vatican spokesman in Rome denied reports that the Pope intended to include Cuba on his Latin American trip, saying, "Nothing is planned." On that visit, set for February, the pontiff's itinerary calls for him to make stops in El Salvador, Nicaragua, Guatemala and Venezuela, all of which are two hours or less from Cuba by plane.
In an interview in Havana last December, Mr. Castro expressed reservations about receiving the pontiff in Cuba. "There are people who are interested in politicizing a visit of the Pope," he said. "We do not agree with that kind of politicization."
Mr. Castro also made it clear that he viewed John Paul II as reflexively anti-Communist and the Catholic Church in Cuba as excessively conservative. He said he sympathized with the theology of liberation, a blend of Marxist analysis and Catholic doctrine that the Pope has sharply discouraged, and complained that "the church here, the upper ranks of the hierarchy, has been closer to the church in Miami than the theology of liberation."
As Cuba's economic and political difficulties have deepened, the Catholic Church there has become increasingly active. The Catholic charity Caritas now distributes medicine and food in Cuba, the formation of a Justice and Peace Commission by the Archdiocese of Havana to investigate human rights abuses was announced last year, and the Archdiocese of Havana publishes a newsletter that is one of the few publications not controlled by the Government.
Like Mr. Castro, the hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church in Cuba has opposed the 34-year-old American economic embargo, saying that it inflicts unnecessary hardships on the Cuban population. But the Cuban Conference of Bishops has also criticized what it calls "the exclusionary and omnipresent character of the official ideology" and the "excessive control of state security organs." Despite his ideological differences with the Vatican, Mr. Castro has never broken diplomatic relations.
This summer, Mr. Castro met at the Nunciatura in Havana with a special envoy sent by the Pope, Cardinal Bernardin Gantin, according to diplomats and church officials in the United States and Cuba. Mr. Castro also conferred with Archbishop Jaime Lucas Ortega y Alamino, who last October became the first Cuban to be named Cardinal since Mr. Castro seized power in 1959.
"This has been going on for a long time, at least five years," a European diplomat who is based in Havana said today about the contacts between the Cuban Government and the Vatican. "But the pace seems to have picked up lately, and there appears to be some momentum building."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); HOLY SEE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (88%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); ITALY (78%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); ROME, ITALY (78%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (99%); HOLY SEE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (88%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); ITALY (78%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); ROME, ITALY (78%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); INTERVIEWS (88%); 

PERSON: POPE (JOHN PAUL II); CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) FIDEL CASTRO (90%); BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1995



55 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Newsday Tests Just How Deep Cuts Can Go

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON 

 BODY:
For Newsday, the worst was supposed to be over by now.
Instead, it is becoming clear that the Long Island newspaper, often described as one of the best regional newspapers in the country, is struggling to move beyond the trauma that began with the closing of its New York City edition this summer. 
 The paper is completing a painful cost-cutting program, including voluntary buyouts, that led to the departure in recent weeks of more journalists than the paper's executives had predicted. Threatened layoffs were avoided, but the paper's total news staff is shrinking to 484 people from 724. That represents a cut of about 50 more jobs than Newsday expected when it closed the New York edition.
Those departing through the buyout program include top-level newsroom managers, like the foreign editor; columnists and senior reporters, like the chief White House correspondent, and some of the paper's most promising young writers.
"Psychologically, it's very debilitating" for Newsday, said one longtime manager who insisted on not being identified. "It causes people to question: 'What is the vision for the journalistic mission?' "
John McDonald, a former bureau chief for the East End of Long Island and the vice president of the paper's union, said, "It's got a long way to go to come back."
Newsday has become a highly visible test of the theory taking hold in newspapers nationally that sharp staff cutbacks will not affect readers. Mark H. Willes, chief executive of Newsday's parent, the Times Mirror Company, became the best- known advocate of that theory when, after he closed New York Newsday in July, he ordered cuts of about 800 of Newsday's total staff of 3,200 and oversaw sharp reductions at other papers owned by the company.
The cuts at Newsday and other Times Mirror papers, including The Los Angeles Times and The Hartford Courant, have put Times Mirror in the spotlight, because of its papers' reputation for quality, at a time the newspaper industry is under intense pressure to improve financial performance.
Everette E. Dennis, executive director of the Freedom Forum Media Studies Center in New York, said Mr. Willes's efforts to wring savings out of his newspapers were being watched carefully.
"You simply can't produce the same thing with fewer and perhaps less talented people," Mr. Dennis said.
"A newspaper is a living organism," he said, adding that once "living tissue" is cut off, "the organism will go on, but it will be scarred."
After Newsday spent what executives said was more than $60 million for the cost-cutting moves, so many journalists decided to take buyouts that Newsday's managers began furiously negotiating to keep some senior staff. The editors now plan to hire new journalists to fill some of the slots left empty.
At the same time, Newsday executives said, the paper's business managers have been under orders to get the annual profit margin up to about 17 percent, the average profit margin of several large newspaper companies, from about 7 percent. Newsday's annual profits have suffered in recent years because of weakness in the Long Island economy and multimillion-dollar annual losses at New York Newsday. The publisher of Newsday, Raymond A. Jansen, declined to be interviewed.
All of Times Mirror's big newspapers have been adapting to changes since Mr. Willes became chief executive on June 1. David S. Barrett, editor of The Hartford Courant, said his staff was skeptical about whether his paper was still committed to serious, in-depth journalism after a buyout program reduced his news staff from 342 to 294 people. The Courant lost some of its best-known columnists and prize-winning reporters.
In Washington, Jim Mann, a foreign affairs reporter for The Los Angeles Times, said he had an unsettling experience this summer, when his paper discontinued its Washington edition, which its editors had said was critical to keeping the West Coast paper visible among policy makers.
Mr. Mann received a call from an aide to Secretary of State Warren Christopher, who wanted to know how to get daily copies of the paper for Mr. Christopher. Mr. Mann had been under the impression that the paper planned to deliver its regular edition to Washington the same day as its publication -- in time to help set Washington's agenda. But after he checked with his paper, Mr. Mann had to tell the aide that The Los Angeles Times was no longer available on the East Coast on the day of publication -- even for the Secretary of State.
A spokeswoman for the paper said shipping expenses made same-day delivery impossible.
But perhaps because of all the attention given to the shutdown of New York Newsday, the stresses felt at Newsday on Long Island may be the clearest barometer of the changes in the newspaper industry. Editors at the paper's headquarters in Melville said recent events had been so painful that there had been a kind of group grieving process.
"Sure, a lot of people are sad, upset, frustrated about what's happened," said Anthony Marro, the editor since 1987. "I've spent the past month watching talented people go off to do journalism somewhere else and I can't imagine anybody being happy about that. At the same time, I'm very excited about the staff that's still here."
People at Newsday said Mr. Marro and Mr. Jansen were clearly unprepared for Mr. Willes's demand for sharp cuts. The result, they said, was that an effort to try to avoid layoffs ended up hurting the paper.
Early this summer, the journalists at the paper said, the executives were so obviously worried about the prospect of layoffs that they suggested that Newsday staffers who could get a job elsewhere should do so and take the buyout. Only in September, toward the end of the eight-week buyout offer, did managers appear to realize that many of the paper's best journalists were fleeing.
In interviews, some of those who have left said they had lost interest in what they feared would become a parochial suburban paper. Some said that they were confident Newsday would recover journalistically but that they were too wrung out emotionally by recent events to stay. Others said they doubted that Mr. Willes would be satisfied with any attainable profit at the paper. Still others said they felt certain he would eventually sell the paper, creating a new crisis.
Mr. Willes has said Times Mirror will not sell its newspapers. A corporate spokeswoman, Martha Goldstein, said last week that Newsday's managers, not Mr. Willes, had set the paper's financial goals. Asked if there was a likelihood of new cutbacks in the future, the spokeswoman would say only, "We have no reason to believe that Newsday won't make their performance standard."
Some former staffers said even the paper's top executives seem dispirited by demands for higher profits, possibly at the cost of Newsday's broader ambitions. "He took away their dream that someday they were going to be a major paper," said one journalist who echoed the words of many of his colleagues. "Now, it's going to be The Nassau County Daily Bugle."
Mr. Marro was told about such comments in an interview. Although he told his employees that he disagreed with Mr. Willes's decision to close New York Newsday, Mr. Marro said no one could know what his journalistic dreams were.
"My resolve," Mr. Marro added, "is to keep this a first-rate paper. And to make it a place where journalists do their best work." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEWSDAY; NEW YORK NEWSDAY; TIMES MIRROR CO NEWSDAY INC (92%); TIMES MIRROR CO (82%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (64%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEWSDAY; NEW YORK NEWSDAY; TIMES MIRROR CO LOS ANGELES TIMES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FINANCES LAYOFFS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (75%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM; WILLES, MARK H JIM MANN (60%); MARK H WILLES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1995



56 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: PULSE;
Nuclear Power

 BODY:
New Jersey and Connecticut are both greatly dependent on nuclear power to generate electricity. Changing economics, especially high maintenance and capital costs for nuclear power plants and decreasing oil and natural gas prices, have made the electricity produced by nuclear energy more expensive than power from other sources. One plant, Shoreham, closed before it began producing electricity. No new reactors have been ordered for 20 years in the United States. Some nuclear plants in the region are also notoriously unreliable. Many have capacity factors, the measure of a plant's reliability, well below the national average.

GRAPHIC: Chart lists nuclear power plants in the metropolitan area

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1995



57 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Still 'Forever Wild'?

BYLINE: By Bill McKibben; Bill McKibben is the author of "Hope, Human and Wild," about the history of the Adirondacks.

DATELINE: JOHNSBURG, N.Y.

 BODY:
The Empire State can boast of many things but none grander than the vast Adirondack Park, which occupies the northern quarter of the state. It's the world's largest- scale, longest-running experiment in ecological restoration, and it's under siege this fall as never before.
I live in the central Adirondacks, and when a windstorm blew through here in mid-July it knocked down millions of trees. But it left a lot more than that standing. 
 The Adirondack Park, a unique patchwork of state and private land, is bigger than the Glacier, Grand Canyon, Yellowstone and Yosemite national parks combined, so the wind affected most of the park about as much as a water-main break on Canal Street in Manhattan bothers Far Rockaway, Queens.
Yet some state officials want to use the storm as an excuse to override the state's protection of the Adirondack wilderness -- the guarantee in the state constitution that it will remain "forever wild."
They are talking about "salvage" operations on this public land, and they're planning to allow private owners with windblown stretches of land to clear-cut large holdings -- damaged and healthy trees alike -- with no direct oversight.
Much worse for the future of the park, Gov. George Pataki's administration seems bent on easing the way for developers, whose new subdivisions would do far more damage than the 80-mile-an-hour winds that toppled the pines and hemlocks in July.
The park's regional planning agency faces crippling staff cuts, and the state has stopped spending money that had been reserved for the acquisition of new public land. New state appointees have even proposed changing park rules to allow outside trash to be put in local landfills.
All of this has come as a stunning disappointment to people who care about these glorious mountains, lakes and woods. Many of us had hoped that Mr. Pataki would turn out to be a protector of the park, for we badly need a return to the bipartisan consensus that has for more than a century protected the Adirondack wilderness.
The Adirondacks won their special designation more than a century ago after a manmade disaster -- unrestrained logging -- caused whole mountainsides to erode into the headwaters of the Hudson. Early photographs of the now densely forested land around my house show mile upon mile with hardly a tree in sight.
Generations before the rest of the world had even heard of ecology, New York began a classic experiment in restoration. With more and more land purchased by the state and protected by the constitution's guarantee that timber could not be "sold, removed, or destroyed," trees began to grow again.
With them came the wildlife. There are old men and women in my town who can remember when the first bear returned here, an object of great wonder. Now bears are common, and we are celebrating the slow return of moose.
Moderate Republicans have been at least as important in protecting the Adirondacks as Democratic liberals. Nelson Rockefeller extended important zoning regulations to the half of the park that remains in private hands, preventing the construction of large-scale vacation resorts in the back country.
New York's partnership between public and private interests is a successful example of the federalism now in vogue in Washington: the state's public lands are in far better shape than the overgrazed and overcut national forests. Conservationists trying to create biosphere reserves in tropical rain forests and the African savanna have begun to study the Adirondacks.
But there's still much work to do. As the Residents Committee to Protect the Adirondacks points out, though the Adirondacks lie in the poorest corner of the state, this area is not as poor as comparable areas of the rural Northeast -- and we have a wild forest that could serve as the base of our economic future, both in wilderness tourism and small-scale timber harvesting.
Mr. Pataki, who was an environmentalist in the Legislature and as Governor signed the visionary law protecting Long Island's Pine Barrens, still has time to champion the Adirondacks. The Governor should watch his polls. Recent surveys show his approval rating dipping below 40 percent, and most New Yorkers say he's more conservative than they are.
If in a few years he could say that he brought all sides together -- if he could point to new shoreline protection for Adirondack lakes, to the acquisition of a few key parcels of land that Gov. Mario Cuomo could never buy and to economic progress tied to the land's continuing integrity -- that would be a signal accomplishment, a powerful claim to long-lasting gratitude. It would be an accomplishment on an Adirondack scale.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 1995, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A new book by Bill McKibben, the author of an article published yesterday on the Adirondacks, was described incorrectly. The book, "Hope, Human and Wild," examines local efforts around the world to reduce environmental damage.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ADIRONDACK PARK; NEW YORK STATE; ; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; WEATHER NATIONAL PARKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); LAND RECLAMATION (77%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (76%); WILDLIFE (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); WEATHER (74%); EROSION (70%); WATER MAIN BREAKS (69%); LANDFILLS (62%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (67%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1995



58 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Noncandidate Powell Stirs Waves on Republican Right

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2

 BODY:
Without running for President, without even disclosing a party affiliation, Gen. Colin L. Powell has caused more commotion on the Republican right than any of the declared candidates.
Last week Gary L. Bauer, a former Bush Administration aide who heads the Family Research Council and American Renewal, both conservative groups, sent a fax to 5,000 conservative opinion leaders, warning that "the current flirtation with Colin Powell as the 1996 G.O.P. Presidential nominee has gone far enough" and urging his friends to cut it out. 
 For many of Mr. Bauer's allies, it has been a heavy flirtation -- and an unlikely one, given General Powell's emerging reputation as the political heir of Nelson A. Rockefeller, who earned the enmity of conservatives as the rival of their hero, Barry Goldwater, for the 1964 Republican Presidential nomination.
Many right-wing Republicans had hoped to support William J. Bennett, the author and former Cabinet member, or former Vice President Dan Quayle, or Jack F. Kemp, another former Cabinet member. All three withdrew from the race before it had started, and conservatives have lacked a champion since. A few have settled on Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, but he has not caught fire. So prominent conservatives, like many others, have been pouring their hopes into General Powell.
The pro-Powell conservatives find appeal in the general's military background, his devotion to traditional values like discipline and family solidarity and patriotism, and his economic conservatism. They overlook, to the astonishment of people like Mr. Bauer, his backing for abortion rights and gun control.
In the first issue of The Weekly Standard, a new conservative magazine, Bill Kristol, who was Mr. Quayle's chief of staff, said this: "Can a moderate win the nomination of a conservative, newly energized, Reagan-Gingrich Republican Party? Yes -- especially if Powell throws a few bones to conservatives by saying the right things about personal responsibility, no new taxes and limited government."
"He is a leader," Mr. Kemp said. "He transcends the parties. He is a Republican on almost every issue."
Mr. Bennett said on television that General Powell was "a sensitive, thoughtful and nuanced man," and suggested that he could run for President on a platform of "duty, honor, country." Ralph Reed, head of the Christian Coalition, noted that the general had said "he agreed with many of the things we were promoting -- traditional family values, school choice and things of that nature."
The conservative pollster Richard Wirthlin has also made positive noises about a Powell candidacy as a Republican. He argued that the general's positions on the economy and on controlling crime, "as well as providing a moral standard for the country, put him in a very good position of bringing in a majority of the conservative vote if he should run."
It is all too much for Mr. Bauer, who objects to General Powell's support for abortion rights and for gun controls, his criticism of the Republican "Contract With America," his qualified backing for affirmative action and his lukewarm attitude toward overhauling the welfare system.
"Republicans should quickly right themselves and ask the good general to match his rare charisma with rock-solid conservatism," Mr. Bauer wrote in his fax memorandum. "As things stand now, that appears to be a long-term project."
Since sending it, he said in an interview, he has been swamped by messages of support from rank-and-file conservatives. But "there has been no rush to the microphones on Capitol Hill," he added ruefully, and "people at the grass roots see a sellout by their leaders."
"It's part of a pattern," Mr. Bauer said. "There is much more passion for change outside Washington than inside. The Congressional freshmen sense that, which is why they are pressing Gingrich so hard. But there are always tensions between governing conservatives and citizen conservatives. Same with liberals."
Most Republican officeholders have been careful not to say anything harsh about General Powell, although Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the front-runner for the 1996 Republican nomination, has been considerably more complimentary than Senator Gramm.
Of the well-known conservative activists, only Paul Weyrich of the Free Congress Foundation has spoken out in support of Mr. Bauer's position. On CNN's "Inside Politics" program on Thursday, he said of General Powell, "If he should get the Republican nomination, it would be as if Ronald Reagan never lived and Nelson Rockefeller never died."
But Mr. Kristol, of The Weekly Standard, may be having second thoughts. He said last week that "there's a case to be made that Powell would do to the Gingrich revolution what Bush did to the Reagan revolution -- stall it."
In addition, an anti-Powell note was sounded last week by Lawrence Eagleburger, the former Secretary of State, who said in an interview with the journal International Economy: "I don't know where he is on any issue other than some security issues. I don't know why he should be President. I know personally that if Colin had had his druthers, we would not have fought the Iraq War. President Bush and Brent Scowcroft pushed him into it."
Tony Dolan, who was Ronald Reagan's chief speechwriter, sees the tumult as the inevitable result of the growth of the conservative movement.
"Doctrinal unity is not a problem when you're small," he said. "But you grow, you gain power and factions develop. Now there is no longer an approved vision of conservatism. We don't know which is the official Vatican newspaper. Is it The Standard? Is it The National Review? Is it Human Events?"
Mr. Dolan does not think General Powell will run, but the possibility of a candidacy, he said, is splitting conservatives between those who look back to the battles of the 1960's and 1970's, when Republican moderates remained a powerful force, and those whose outlook was shaped by the triumphs of the Reagan era. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (93%); FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (93%); FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 CONSERVATISM (91%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); FAMILY (77%); WRITERS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); GUN CONTROL (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (51%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; POWELL, COLIN L (GEN) (RET); BAUER, GARY L; ROCKEFELLER, NELSON ALDRICH (1908-79); GOLDWATER, BARRY PHIL GRAMM (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



59 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-10
 
GERMANS SEE LUXURY'S PEAK
Germans are increasingly beginning to question whether the luxury of their once unquestioned welfare state has reached its zenith. A10
 
PROTEST DISTURBS MEXICANS
As several hundred students occupy the main building of Mexico's largest university, apprehension infects the capital, but the students mainly just want jobs. A3
 
U.N. MEMBERS CASTIGATE U.S.
Friends and allies have lined up in the 50th United Nations General Assembly to castigate the United States, however indirectly, for not paying $1.4 billion in dues. A3
 
U.S. AND U.N. MEET ON BOSNIA
American and United Nations officials met to discuss leaving experienced NATO units in the Balkans to police a peace settlement, including rapid-reaction forces from Britain and France. A6
 
RUSSIA TURNS ON GAS TO SARAJEVO
The Russian Prime Minister, Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, agreed to open the valves that will send Russian gas to Sarajevo. A6
 
Prospects dimmed for a complete cease-fire in Bosnia. A6
 
PROGRESS IN I.R.A. TALKS
Irish and British officials say they are close to resolving an enduring dispute over the disarmament of the Irish Republican Army and the scheduling of full talks. A8
 
Clinton confirms he will meet President Jiang of China. A10
 
Sochi Journal: Sun, sea, sand and the specter of Stalin. A4
 
National A12-20
 
THE VERDICT
The jury in the O. J. Simpson case reached a quick verdict, but it will not be revealed until today. A1
 
A SURPRISE FOR EXPERTS
The quick return of the Simpson jury startled many legal experts, who had predicted lengthy deliberations. A1
 
BILL ON TERRORISM STYMIED
Broad counterterrorism legislation thought to be headed for passage earlier this year has been derailed by an unusual coalition. A1
 
THE POWER OF POWELL
Though he has announced no Presidential plans, Gen. Colin L. Powell has caused more commotion on the Republican right than any of the declared candidates. A1
 
ROUGH TIMES ON THE RANCH
The modern forces of international commerce and corporate agriculture are combining with drought to hurt ranchers. A12
 
TOWARD A CANCER BREAKTHROUGH
A chemical industry executive whose family has been plagued by cancer said he would donate $100 million to cancer research. A12
 
CRASH RAISES SAFETY QUESTIONS
Investigators have found three safety violations in the wreckage of a plane that crashed in Virginia last month, killing 10 parachutists, and inspection procedures are being questioned. A12
 
BREAST IMPLANT SETTLEMENT
Three major manufacturers of silicone breast implants proposed a new settlement plan yesterday that would both significantly cut a previous offer and make it harder to collect awards. A14
 
REASSESSING VOTING DISTRICTS
The Supreme Court, considering a Tennessee case, suggested an alternative to majority-black districts in meeting the requirements of the Voting Rights Act. A18
 
MEDICARE DEVELOPMENTS
Senate Democrats announced their alternative plan for overhauling Medicare, and in the House some Democrats walked out of a committee meeting to protest the Republican plan. A20
 
Metro Digest B1
 
EMERGENCY MEETING ON SCHOOLS
Declaring the New York City school system in a state of crisis, Sheldon Silver, the Speaker of the Assembly, announced a summit meeting of state, city and school board officials next week to plot out a new structure for the Board of Education, including the possibility of a transfer of power to the Mayor. A1
 
IMMIGRANTS TURN TO PARISHES
With each group harboring their own notion of the spiritual, political and economic role of the Catholic Church, immigrants have turned to parishes across New York City looking for help and healing, security and education. A1
 
GAO LIQIN'S ODYSSEY TO AMERICA
For different reasons, the case of Gao Liqin riveted immigrant New York, particularly the Chinese community: her odyssey echoed so many of their own, but for its brutal end at the hands of kidnappers. A1
 
Science Times C1-11
 
Did superplumes break up Gondwanaland supercontinent? C1
The lowly mussel faces an extinction crisis. C1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Fashion Page A23
 
Sports B8-14
 
Obituaries A22
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-17
 
Supertitles at the Met. C13
A black director who emerges at the top. C13
Kirov leaders are accused of extortion. C13
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A24-25
 
Editorials
 
A time for wisdom.
The trial of Omar Abdel Rahman.
Brent Staples: Colin Powell.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: A really great show.
A. M. Rosenthal: Living high and free.
Peter Schrag: Pete Wilson's California quagmire.
Andrew Cockburn: Swords into stock shares.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Chess B4
 
Crossword C14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (79%); FRANCE (76%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (79%); FRANCE (76%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JURY TRIALS (88%); TERRORISM (87%); VERDICTS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DISARMAMENT (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (69%); ELECTION LAW (68%); COUNTERTERRORISM (68%); CHEMICALS (65%); CHEMICALS MFG (65%); CANCER (65%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (62%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (60%); ONCOLOGY (60%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); PRIME MINISTERS (53%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



60 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1681 words

HEADLINE: A VISIT FROM THE POPE: THE FAITHFUL;
Vibrant Parishes Find Strength in Diversity

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON 

 BODY:
The parish demographics have changed wildly, even weekly, in the nine decades since German immigrants built St. Aloysius Roman Catholic Church in Queens. Last Sunday, a young Filipino woman's voice rang out from the Ridgewood church's choir loft, while down below a Vietnamese grandmother rocked her infant grandchild. Hispanic and Indian schoolchildren stood together, and older Polish and Italian men knelt with their thick arms and rosary beads hanging before them.
"Mass here can feel like Sociology 101," Msgr. Eugene McGovern, the pastor at St. Aloysius, said. 
 While St. Aloysius has multilingual priests, there are so many immigrant groups at the working-class church that it is not possible to create separate masses for each. The celebration and instruction that takes place at the parish's main Sunday Mass, then, is done in only one language -- English.
"I often wonder how much they are taking in," Monsignor McGovern said of the single language for his great variety of parishioners. "My hope is that each person takes a bit. But there is such diversity that we can't offer that complete kind of parish life."
It was Pope John Paul II who once said that "culture must become faith, and faith must become culture," and as he travels through the New York City region this week, the Pope will see many churches like St. Aloysius that are living through all the joys and travails of carrying out his dictum. For the Catholic Church in the city, the latest, spectacularly varied surge of immigrants has at once reinvigorated and enriched parishes while straining the church and its resources to their limits.
Immigrants, with each group harboring its own special notions of the spiritual, political and economic role of the Catholic Church, have turned to parishes across the city looking for help and healing, security and education. And that does not even include salvation.
That kind of searching by Catholic immigrants -- a good number of them undocumented -- has become more urgent in light of what many of them perceive as a nasty turn in the country's political climate, one they say they think has turned them into targets.
"In the Catholic Church, there is no need to have a visa or a passport," said the Rev. Ronald Marino, who runs the Catholic Migration Office in Brooklyn. "You are not asked where you came from or if you are legal."
Even in New York City, the Diocese of Brooklyn, which includes Queens, stands out, with the largest immigrant membership among its 1.6 million parishioners.
"In Brooklyn and Queens, we have a microcosm of the whole world and thus a microcosm of the universal church," Father Marino said. "It goes beyond language and whether or not you can do Spanish bingo. And so with that kind of pressure, the challenge to minister is great. We do some things well, and some things need a lot of work."
The impact of immigrants on the church in the city, and the simultaneous effect of the church on the immigrants, can be measured in all sorts of ways, straightforward and subtle. To make the best use of its priests with foreign-language skills and immigrant backgrounds, the diocese has created 18 separate apostolates in the two boroughs to be spiritual and practical outposts for specific ethnic groups, from Haitians to Pakistanis. At the Most Precious Blood Church in Astoria, Queens, the special-language Mass schedule for Sunday reads: 10:45 Croatian; 12:30 Italian; 5:00 Filipino; 6:30 Brazilian.
In upper Manhattan, more than 20,000 Catholics, almost all of them Hispanic, fill churches that had been imperiled by the flight of European Catholics from the city. "Our 10 churches here, without the Dominicans, would be empty," said Msgr. Joaquin Beaumont, pastor of St. Elizabeth, where 3,700 people turn out for Sunday Mass. In Flushing, Queens, Korean immigrants raised $5 million to build their own church, St. Paul Chong Ha Sang. The 4,000 people who attend Mass every Sunday make up the largest Korean Catholic community outside of Korea.
This Catholic migration in the city at times takes surprising turns. For instance, St. Frances de Chantal, a traditionally Italian parish that had seen its numbers dwindle and its school shut, faced possible closing several years ago as the Borough Park section of Brooklyn became populated almost exclusively by Orthodox Jews.
But many of the Jews hired Catholic Polish women to be their house cleaners, and those women began attending Saturday evening Mass at St. Frances. Other Poles followed. Now, 3,000 Polish immigrants go to Mass every weekend. Last Saturday, as the moon appeared in the night sky and the Orthodox walked by with their children, light and music poured out of St. Frances and onto the streets of Borough Park.
Inside, the air was thick with perfume, and there were two weddings and a pair of baptisms taking place in addition to Mass. The faces in the pews, encompassing every generation, were out of some old Solidarity poster. The collection baskets contained only single bills, but they were filled to the top.
With the Pope's Mass before thousands of the city's immigrants at Aqueduct Racetrack on Friday, only days away, a group of St. Frances parishioners spoke of the mixed blessings of the Catholic Church in America. Halina Nowakowicz, 52, said that "after six days of work, I couldn't imagine not hearing a Polish homily." Jacek Kaczocha, a 19-year-old theology student, said that "everywhere you look in New York are people who have abandoned the church," and that he believed the Catholics back in Poland were "closer to God."
But the power of the weekly experience at St. Frances meant everything to Kazimierz Nojewodka, 42. "I am only a handyman, and I hear bad words spoken at me, words that humiliate me," he said. "Here, I get my identity back. I am a child of God again."
That redemptive sense of identity suffused the basement church at St. Jerome's on Newkirk Avenue in Brooklyn last Sunday. More than 600 Haitian immigrants had emerged from subways and car-service vehicles to be a part of the 7:45 A.M. Creole Mass. There were horns and drums in the church, and the elderly and the 8-year-olds didn't mind kneeling on the hard floor.
The Haitians, who fight the hardships of immigration politics and racial prejudice, sang strenuously and laughed frequently. The Catholic Church -- a complicated institution in Haiti that has served both as an ally of dictatorships and a champion of the poor -- seemed on this Brooklyn morning a place of unity.
"My faith was strong in Haiti, but it got stronger here," Gertrude Crevecoeur, an office administrator, said. "Haitian people believe."
Of course, the dynamics and phenomena produced by immigrants and the church in the city are often complex, the successes shaded. After 26 consecutive years of declining enrollment at Catholic elementary schools in the Brooklyn and Queens diocese, there have been three straight years of increases. But in many instances, only a fraction of the children attending the schools are Catholics.
And in the case of Catholics who have come to the city from India, many of whom get together for Mass once a month at Holy Family Church in Brooklyn or Our Lady of the Snows in Floral Park, there has been a more muted sense of vitality and shared experience. "The numbers are increasing, but I think most are disappointed," the Rev. Paul Vazhapilly said. "The knowledge of the faith, the practice of the faith, seems to be less for everybody here."
In certain instances, the experiences for immigrant Catholics in the city have been rich but isolated from the larger church. For other immigrants, the experiences have been troubled by the political tensions carried here from their native countries.
The Koreans in Flushing have set up what amounts to an old-style national parish -- St. Paul Chong Ha Sang -- serving exclusively immigrants from Korea. Because traditional church life in Korea was built on the strength and involvement of lay people, the parishioners in Flushing have managed well despite the shortage of diocesan priests and the near absence of priests who speak their language. The parish boasts 27 prayer groups and a credit union with $20 million in assets.
At the Church of the Transfiguration in Chinatown, recent immigrants from the Chinese countryside, people who belonged to the "underground" Catholic Church in China, have brought life and numbers and energy. But they have also found themselves wary of other parishioners and priests they believe belonged to the government-sanctioned "patriotic" Catholic Church in China. So great is their suspicion of native Chinese priests that it is not uncommon for the new immigrants to go to the Rev. Raymond Nobiletti, the American-born pastor, and ask him to rehear confessions that have been heard by Chinese priests.
"We run an obstacle course here," said Father Nobiletti, "and every couple of months I have to get up and remind everyone that this is the United States, and that we don't discriminate."
Church officials say they believe that the multiple challenges are going to be more daunting in the future. Immigrants will keep coming, and they will always be mostly poor.
"We don't pretend to meet all their demands, but we do what we can," said Bishop Joseph Sullivan, executive vice president of Catholic Charities for Brooklyn and Queens. "What we must try and do is create a human environment for them to pursue their destiny."
Many Hispanic Catholics, who have been arriving in New York for decades, adapting themselves and changing the church in the city as well, think they have part of the answer to the task ahead.
"The nature of the Catholic parish in America is changing," said Antonio Stevens-Arroyo, a scholar and the director of the Program for Analysis of Religion Among Latinos. "The clergy can't run everything. There are not enough of them. A home-based spiritual life built around the family and a dedication to the community is the parish of the future. And Puerto Ricans and Dominicans and others have been doing it for decades."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Mass here can feel like Sociology 101," Msgr. Eugene McGovern said of a mix of immigrants filling the pews at St. Aloysius in Queens each week. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); At Brooklyn's St. Frances de Chantal, the Rev. Marian Kencik baptized Samantha Gunkowska, whose parents, Jan, in suit, and Bozena, in stripes, as well as the godmother, Edyta Zareba, are Polish immigrants. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times) (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; ST ALOYSIUS ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH (QUEENS)

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; ST ALOYSIUS ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH (QUEENS)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); IMMIGRATION (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); MEN (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); CHILDREN (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); REFUGEES (73%); CITIES (70%); 

PERSON: SEXTON, JOE; POPE (JOHN PAUL II) POPE JOHN PAUL II (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



61 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies Propose Plan
To Settle Implant Suits
Three major manufacturers of silicone breast implants, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Baxter Healthcare and Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, proposed a new settlement that would both reduce a previous offer to thousands of women and make it harder for them to collect awards. 
 Under the plan, the companies' contribu tions could rise sharply from their share of the original $4.25 billion deal, which had collapsed, but would reduce individual awards. Women who chose not to accept the plan could still sue the manufacturers. [Page A14.]
 
Restrictions Placed on Daiwa
State and Federal regulators charged Daiwa Bank with unsound banking practices and imposed tough restrictions on the bank in reaction to its admission last week that a trader in its New York branch had lost $1.1 billion over the last 11 years. [D6.]
 
Deal Reached on Canary Wharf Sale
An investor group led by the Canadian developer Paul Reichmann and Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia will buy Canary Wharf, according to Lloyds Bank, which leads the group that owns the London complex. [D8.]
 
Auto Sales Hurt by Strike
General Motors and Chrys ler reported disappointing September sales, as an eight-week strike by car haulers began to take its toll. G.M.'s sales rose one-half of 1 percent, to 401,463 units, and Chrysler's sales fell 6.6 percent, to 157,004 units. [D9.]
 
British Utilities in $4.4 Billion Deal
Southern Electric P.L.C., Britain's second-largest regional power distribution company, agreed to be acquired by National Power P.L.C., the nation's largest generator of electricity, for $4.4 billion. [D8.]
 
Cigna to Take $750 Million Charge
Cigna became the latest insurance company to announce it would increase the amount of money it has set aside to pay insurance claims arising from environmental cleanups and asbestos, saying it would take a $750 million charge against third-quarter earnings. [D24.]
 
S.E.C. Sends Signal to Advisers
In three recent cases, the Securities and Exchange Commission has put the nation's investment advisers on notice that they have an extra responsibility to put the interests of clients before their own -- and to alert clients to conflicts of interest, even potential ones. Market Place. [D12.]
 
Nextel Chief Executive to Resign
Nextel Communications' chief executive, Wayland R. Hicks, will resign, and the company said it would move its headquarters to Seattle. Analysts said the moves signaled the increasing influence Craig O. McCaw has on the company. [D6.]
 
David Rockefeller Quits Board
David Rockefeller resigned from the board of Rockefeller Group, saying his role as a director might conflict with his role in an investor group bidding to buy Rockefeller Center Properties, which holds the $1.3 billion mortgage on Rockefeller Center. [D10.]
 
Consumer Spending Rises 1%
Consumer spending rose a strong 1 percent in August, lifted by a surge in purchases of new cars. In a separate report, a survey by the National Association of Purchas ing Management showed that manufacturing activity remained weak in September, pointing to continued slow economic growth. [D6.]
 
The purchasing management report sent stocks down sharply over concerns about corporate profits. The Dow industrials fell 27.82 points, to 4,761.26, and the Nasdaq composite sank 15.97 points, to 1,027.57. [D12.]
 
License Pacts for Lotus Notes
Lotus Development is expected today to announce license agreements with 11 telecommunications companies around the world that will make its Notes software available on their public networks. [D2.]
 
Lucas Industries Settles Dispute
Lucas Industries said it would pay $88 million to settle a two-year legal dispute with the Department of Defense. The settlement will result in a charge to earnings of $87 million for the 1995 fiscal year. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (58%); CI (NYSE) (58%); MMM (SWX) (58%); MMM (NYSE) (58%); MMM (FRA) (58%); LYG (NYSE) (57%); LLOY (LSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (82%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (58%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (58%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL POWER PLC (82%); SOUTHERN ELECTRIC PLC (66%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (58%); CIGNA CORP (58%); 3M CO (58%); LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (58%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (79%); ASBESTOS (78%); MEDICAL INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); STRIKES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INSURANCE (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); BOARD CHANGES (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (64%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (63%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (60%); RESIGNATIONS (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (50%); 

PERSON: PRINCE ALWALEED BIN TALAL (52%); WAYLAND R HICKS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



62 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Even Its Allies Castigate U.S. Over Failure to Pay U.N. Dues

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 2

 BODY:
Britain's Foreign Secretary called it "representation without taxation." Australia's Foreign Minister suggested Washington could lose its United Nations voting rights. The Nordic countries as much as said that American deadbeats were setting a "deplorable" example for the world.
Day after day for more than a week, friends of the United States in Europe and nearly every other region have lined up in the 50th General Assembly to castigate those whose failure to pay United Nations dues is leading the organization to the point of bankruptcy. Since Washington owes more than any other nation -- about $1.4 billion by its own account -- the criticism is pointed. 
 "The severest financial crisis in the history of the United Nations casts a dark shadow over the 50th anniversary," Indonesia's Foreign Minister, Ali Alatas, said in a speech today. "The failure of particularly one major member state to meet its obligations by withholding legally obligated contributions is not only contrary to Article 17 of the Charter, but has also driven the organization to the very brink of insolvency."
A few hours later, Gareth Evans, the Australian Foreign Minister, delivered a stinging retort to charges of organizational bloat, in which he noted that the New York City police department had an annual budget $600 million higher than the $1.2 billion needed to run all United Nations offices in New York, Geneva, Vienna, Nairobi and five regional commissions combined.
Warming to the subject, he added that the whole United Nations -- including the World Health Organization, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund -- employed 61,400 people, nearly 4,000 fewer than the number who work in three Disney amusement parks.
"Three times as many people, 183,000," he said, "sell McDonald's hamburgers around the world."
American officials have been struck by the particular bitterness of important European allies and others reflected in speeches and meetings in recent weeks, an American diplomat said today. "We got the message," he added.
Madeleine K. Albright, the chief United States delegate to the United Nations, is in Washington today consulting with officials and members of Congress about ways to begin meeting the overdue payments of Washington's normal assessments.
Last week, when Congress approved a resolution allowing the Government to operate until a budget formula could be found, $120 million for payments to the regular United Nations budget and $50 million for peacekeeping operations were set aside. American diplomats hope to make those payments within six weeks. In addition, $26 million was paid last week toward the costs of peacekeeping in Macedonia, where American troops are stationed.
An American official said today that the Administration hoped to persuade Congress to approve as much as $500 million to $600 million in allocations to pay late United Nations bills by the end of the year. Some members of Congress have said that will not happen without restrictions or conditions.
Officials are already facing a potential legal problem with the United Nations over a decision by Congress to unilaterally cut the United States assessment for peacekeeping operations from 31 percent to 25 percent. Washington pays 25 percent of the organization's regular budget, a figure chosen by Americans when assessments were apportioned. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); INDONESIA (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); INDONESIA (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); FAST FOOD (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (54%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



63 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Sochi Journal;
Sea and Sand and Sun (and the Specter of Stalin)

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: SOCHI, Russia

 BODY:
In the green hills overlooking the long pebbled beaches of Sochi, Russia's beloved Black Sea resort, Stalin still watches from his once-secret dacha, surrounded by the California pines he imported to disguise his hideaway from prying eyes or offshore artillery.
His pockmarked skin smoothed over but with some stubble still at the base of his neck, Stalin is waxwork. His dacha is now open for business, sort of, as a quietly maintained hotel for the well-connected of the new semi-capitalist Russia. 
 Built in 1937 and expanded for the last time just before Stalin's death in 1953, the dacha is set around a pretty courtyard surrounded by palms, cypresses and pines. The architect had built a small pool in the middle, to seem like a bubbling spring, but the night before Stalin's first visit here his chief bodyguard ordered it covered with sand and turned into a flower bed. Stalin, it seems, hated fountains as much as he loved cowboy movies, billiards and show trials.
After the suicide of his wife, Nadezhda, in 1932, Stalin led a bizarre and lonely life, up most of the night with his collection of frightened Politburo colleagues. He forced them to sit through repeated movies and long drunken dinners, and even to dance with one another while he watched.
Of Stalin's many dachas, this one, near his native Georgia, was where he chose to recuperate from a minor stroke for three months in the autumn of 1945. The building has a private movie theater, its oak floors now buckling, and a billiards room with the original table, its polished brass pockets lined in cracking red rubber.
When Stalin was in residence in these cool, beautiful rooms, paneled in oak, chestnut and beech, no employee was allowed to leave, and a special wing was built for his many bodyguards. Today, if the director approves, it is possible to rent a large one-bedroom suite, with original paneling, brass chandeliers and a balcony with a view of the Black Sea, for $140 a night.
"We avoid advertising, because those who need it know about it," said Svetlana Gargulinskaya, 24, a guide who has worked here for two years. "It's a type of recommendation -- for a certain contingent."
Even if the toilet seats are rough Soviet plastic, guests in the 11 rooms have access to the private beach, the 136-acre forest and even Stalin's small, oval indoor pool, which was filled with seawater trucked here and then heated. They can see his office, where he liked to drive a nail into the paneling on which to hang his hat, and they may sit on a couch next to the waxwork Stalin and wonder how it all went so wrong.
Some recent guests, Miss Gargulinskaya said, have included important officials like Defense Minister Pavel S. Grachev, Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev and the chief of staff, Sergei A. Filatov. In July, President Leonid M. Kuchma of Ukraine stayed here when he met President Boris N. Yeltsin, whose own favored dacha is not far away.
With the beloved Crimea now belonging to Ukraine and gorgeous Abkhazia trying to secede from Georgia, the Sochi coast is the only seaside resort left to Russians.
For the first time since the Soviet collapse, Sochi and its nearly 200 resorts, hotels and sanitariums have been nearly full this year and some new ones have opened, another sign of the growing stability of the Russian economy. "President Yeltsin's choice has been good advertising for Sochi," said Yelena Krokhva, service director for Dagomys, a resort of more than 1,000 rooms.
In 1993-94, said the general director, Aleksandr Logachev, Dagomys was only 30 percent full at the season's height. Today it is more than 90 percent full, even though more Russians -- one in 15 last year -- are traveling abroad.
Though a monument to the Soviet love of concrete, the ziggurat-like Dagomys has much to offer: a 50-meter indoor sea-water pool, an outdoor pool, a beach, sports facilities and a casino -- at $50 a night for a double room.
Under the pressure of the market, even the service is improving, Mr. Logachev said. "We haven't fully abandoned our Soviet habits of service," he said gingerly. "But we're working on it very hard."
Still, when Dagomys floundered, its privatization was reversed, and it is now part of Mr. Yeltsin's lavish Presidential apparatus. His dacha is less than 10 minutes away by boat, and many of his guests stay at Dagomys at discount prices.
Mr. Yeltsin has helped in other ways. The city of Sochi pays no federal taxes and only 30 percent of regional taxes, said Aleksandr Davidenko, an aide to the Mayor. Sochi's beachfront, with its Stalin-era neo-Grecian temples to the health of the common man, is being repaired and updated, with private restaurants, clubs and even a big water slide.
But Russia's new rich are flocking instead to Sochi's newest resort, the Radisson Lazurnaya, 300 rooms in Western style and at Western prices. Built from the 17-year-old concrete shell of an unfinished hotel, almost 50 percent of the resort is owned by Gazprom, Russia's natural-gas monopoly, with the rest held by two Turkish firms and the city. Radisson Hotels has a 20-year management contract, but there are already moves afoot to push them out after two years.
Mstislav Kuznetsov, a muscled young man at poolside with his girlfriend, said they came for the weekend with friends. "It's classy here," he said. "You're treated well."
Some of Radisson's competitors admire the decor but think the hotel won't make it: the prices are too steep, they say, the site is too close to the highway, the economy may crash. Even so, it is always possible Mr. Yeltsin will decide the Presidency needs another nice hotel here, especially if Gazprom turns up the pressure.
Asked what Stalin might be thinking of Sochi these days, Miss Gargulinskaya, the guide, shook her head. "He's dead," she said. But hardly forgotten.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Russians are flocking to the water slides and the creature comforts of the new Dagomys tourist hotel in Sochi, on the Black Sea, near Stalin's hidden dacha. But the city's ambiance reflects some old party attitudes. (Otto Pohl for The New York Times)
 
Map shows the location of Sochi, Russia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; SOCHI (RUSSIA); BLACK SEA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS BEACHES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); RESORTS (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); POOL & BILLIARDS (74%); SUICIDE (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; STALIN, JOSEPH (1879-1953)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



64 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: For Ranchers, a 'Bare, Get-By Year'

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: PRESIDIO COUNTY, Tex.

 BODY:
With yips, hollers and whistles, with several smart slaps on their cowhide riding chaps, nine cowboys on horseback herded 800 bellowing head of cattle into the corral at the Hester Brite ranch here one recent morning.
Cattle hooves, horse hooves and boots skidded and stuck in the mud as the cowboys, brandishing whips and prods, cut the cows into different pens from their bawling calves. The calves, about 400, were then prodded up narrow ramps onto trucks bound for winter wheat pastures. 
 In the faceless agriculture of today, where most plants and animals are processed as mechanically as cement, many West Texas ranchers still round up livestock for sale in the fall with the same combination of ritual and festivity as did their grandparents.
But this year, the modern forces of international commerce and corporate agriculture are combining with the elemental constraints of a drought to deny them a cent of profit from their labors. "This is going to be a bare, get-by year," said Jack Lynch, the husband of the ranch's owner. His white hair curling under the sweat-stained band of his cowboy hat, he stood in front of his scales, grimacing down at his clipboard.
The drought has left his calves underweight and has forced the ranch to cut back the herd to save on feed costs. The 20 heifers wedged into a cage on the scales came to only 436 pounds each, he noted, about 110 less than in other years. And the base sales price of 65 cents a pound for heifers, 70 cents for steers, is the lowest, adjusted for inflation, since the mid-1970's.
The drought, in Texas and New Mexico, had left this area, which normally receives 12 inches of rain a year, with less than 3 inches until a storm the day before the cattle sale. Despite some showers since, the ranches have still had only about half as much rain this year as normal.
By forcing ranchers to sell more cows for meat instead of keeping them for breeding, the drought has aggravated the industry's cyclical glut. "They're liquidating cows, and that adds pressure," said Chuck Lambert, an economist with the National Cattlemen's Association. Supplies won't peak until 1997, he said.
The day before the roundup, it had rained hard, filling the arroyos for the first time in months. In the corral, mud and cow droppings splattered high and far.
The cowboys at the ranch, able to work with their bandannas tied around their necks instead of up over their noses and mouths, hardly minded the muck. "If it wasn't so muddy we could have sorted these cattle in about two hours," said Ben Morales, the ranch foreman, pushing back his hat and looking down from his sorrel gelding. "But I'll take mud over dusty."
The storm promised to bring spindly but nutritious grama grass spiking back up through the soil. But it was a patchy rain, too late to save Nancy Ann Lynch, the ranch owner and daughter of the late Hester Brite, from having to buy truckload after truckload of hay this year to keep her cattle healthy if not fat.
With great reluctance, the Lynches plan to cull their herd by 100 cows, perhaps about a quarter, in the coming months, they said.
Like most ranchers, the Lynches would no sooner tell just how many cattle they have than they would give their bank balances. But in all, Mrs. Lynch's family controls 200 square miles, more than four times the area of Manhattan. Even with the red sandstone flanks of mesas, escarpments and peaks jutting more than a mile high from the valley, the family probably has enough level land to raise thousands of animals.
When it comes to low cattle prices, of course, most consumers regard them as no tragedy. Record beef supplies have made the cheaper cuts only a little more expensive than chicken.
Some ranchers are finally trying to fight back with the sort of marketing most other food businesses long ago took for granted. The Lynches sell most of their cattle into a Certified Hereford Beef program, which bestows a brand name to assure restaurant diners and grocery customers of uniform quality.
Ranchers hope such tactics can bring higher prices and keep the major packers who dominate the market from further exploiting the glut. "Three major packers are killing 80, 85 percent of the fattened cattle," said Jim White, who, with Mrs. Lynch's sister, runs an adjoining ranch. "I believe in a free market, but I also believe in a fair deal. Look at the packers' profits."
He was sitting in his living room, under game trophies, portraits of prize bulls and a chandelier made from deer horns, at his ranch house another 12 miles away. It was a setting for hard bargaining performed as a chat between friends who had known each other half a century ago at the University of Texas.
After Lee Hudgins, a buyer and rancher, reviewed his terms for buying Mr. White's calves, Mr. White allowed as how he, too was thinking about cutting back his herd of cows. Maybe for 69 cents a pound.
"That's what I tried to get for mine, but you know, I haven't had anyone knocking," Mr. Hudgins responded with a sympathetic shake of his head.
Mr. White lighted a cigarette, betraying no urgency as he slowly drawed on it. "I can't decide whether to keep more cows and sell more heifers or keep more heifers and sell more cows," he said.
Mr. Hudgins countered: "Well, it's a man's own business. But you know, when you keep too many, you may not like them all."
They struck no deal, at least not then. To see true desperation, Mr. White later said, just visit his friends' ranches in Mexico, which begins across the Rio Grande less than 20 miles to the south. The economy's collapse and a far worse drought have left Mexican ranchers with no grass and no home market. "They just have to ship their cattle wholesale to the United States," further depressing prices here, he said.
Ranchers, unlike oil people, are seldom ones to revel too much in good times. But neither are people like Mr. White ones to quit reveling altogether, even when their ranches are parched and they are selling off their herds. "We shine up our boots and put on our hats to go to Dallas," Mr. White said, sitting up as if about to head there. "We go to a good restaurant, get drunk and make fools of ourselves. But nobody there knows we've been saving up for two years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In agriculture today, where most plants and animals are processed as mechanically as cement, many West Texas ranchers still round up livestock for sale in the fall with the same combination of ritual and festivity as did their grandparents. A ranch hand moves a herd from the range to the corrals recently. (Mark Sterkel for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK; CATTLE; DROUGHT; COWBOYS; MEAT BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); MAMMALS (89%); DROUGHT (89%); HORSES (78%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (78%); WEATHER (73%); LIVESTOCK FEED (73%); ANIMALS (70%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R NANCY ANN LYNCH (68%); JIM WHITE (67%); HESTER BRITE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



65 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: A VISIT FROM THE POPE: NEW COMMUNITIES;
With Every Wave of Newcomers, a Church More Diverse

BYLINE: By GUSTAV NIEBUHR 

 BODY:
When Pope John Paul II arrives for his latest American visit, he will find a church in the middle of historic demographic change.
The American Catholic Church has absorbed floods of immigrants -- Irish, Italians, Mexicans and Eastern Europeans of many nationalities. But never before have the newly arriving been so diverse: from Africa, Asia, Europe and Latin America. 
 In the New York Archdiocese, Mass can heard in 38 languages; the two most recently created parishes are Our Lady of Shkodra, serving Albanians in Hartsdale, N.Y., and St. John Nam, serving Koreans in the Bronx. In the Newark Archdiocese, while visiting parishes in Elizabeth, N.J., one recent Sunday, Archbishop Theodore E. McCarrick said he "began the day in Portuguese" and then heard Masses in Slovak and Polish; on another day, the languages might have been Vietnamese and French Creole.
But the Pope will also find that immigrants and immigration have become a sharply divisive issue, putting his bishops increasingly at odds with the nation's political leaders, and with much of the public, both Catholics and non-Catholics.
This past spring, Archbishop McCarrick twice criticized Clinton Administration officials for plans to return refugees to Cuba and Haiti from the American naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
And last fall, Roger Cardinal Mahony, Archbishop of Los Angeles, went up against Gov. Pete Wilson of California, denouncing as a "social sin" a ballot measure Mr. Wilson supported that would deny medical and educational services to illegal aliens. In the end, voters passed the measure.
In metropolitan New York, where the Pope will spend most of his visit, 42 percent of Catholic residents say that either they or one or both of their parents were born outside the United States, according to The New York Times/CBS News Poll. By contrast, only 27 percent of Catholics outside the metropolitan area say that they or a parent were born outside this country.
Nonetheless, a majority of the American public -- and a majority of Catholics, both inside and outside the New York metropolitan area -- favors a position closer to Congress's than to the bishops, according to the New York Times/CBS News poll. The poll, a nationwide telephone survey of 1,536 adults, found that only 30 percent of Americans want immigration kept at its present level, while 54 percent want it reduced. Among the 423 Catholics included in the poll, the results are statistically indistinguishable from the country as a whole.
The poll, taken between Sept. 18 to 22, has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. It was conducted in English and Spanish, and may have excluded people who do not speak those languages.
In opposing rising anti-immigrant sentiments, the bishops are being "very countercultural," said John Swenson, director of the Office of Migration and Refugee Services for the United States Catholic Conference, which represents the bishops' social policy concerns. During the summer, Mr. Swenson said, he testified before a Congressional subcommittee on immigration that the bishops strongly opposed a proposal to cut back the number of legal immigrants allowed into the United States.
Archbishop McCarrick has formed a committee on migration that has made its feelings clear. It chose Independence Day to issue a pastoral letter, "One Family Under God," which declared that Catholic social teaching demanded that immigrants be treated with hospitality, not hostility. Scripture is full of stories of migrants seeking help and refuge, the committee said, citing the flight of Mary and Joseph, with the infant Jesus, to Egypt.
"We wanted to issue it on July 4," said Archbishop McCarrick, one of the document's authors and also chairman of the bishops' migration committee, "because we're concerned that the nation may be moving away from what made it very much the beacon."
Archbishop McCarrick said church officials have briefed the Vatican on the immigration controversy, and also provided information about the ethnic makeup of the dioceses the Pontiff will visit. "I know the Holy Father is aware of the xenophobia that not only affects our country, but affects the whole Western world," the Archbishop said.
The Pope's own feelings on the issue are no mystery. Less than a month ago, he released a statement in Rome asking understanding of the circumstances in which many illegal immigrants find themselves. To developed nations vexed by the problem of porous borders, he urged international cooperation to foster political stability and economic development, so that people will not be forced to flee civil strife or economic distress.
And speaking directly to Catholics, the Pope counseled compassion. "Today the illegal migrant comes before us like that 'stranger' in whom Jesus asks to be recognized," the pontiff wrote, citing Matthew 25:35. "To welcome him and to show him solidarity is a duty of hospitality and fidelity to Christian identity itself."
It is a message echoed by officials who keep track of immigrant groups in the church at the United States. Catholic Conference's offices in Washington. "We don't want to ignore national borders, or disrespect them," said Sister Suzanne Hall, director of the Office of Pastoral Care of Migrants and Refugees. "But the primary consideration is that we are sisters and brothers."
Looking over a list of Asian Catholics, Sister Suzanne estimated that the church in this country is spiritual home to 1.3 million Filipinos, 200,000 Vietnamese, 80,000 Koreans, perhaps as many as 70,000 Chinese and smaller numbers of Cambodians, Laotians and Hmong. Many of the larger groups arrived with their own priests and nuns, and some have ordained priests from within their communities here.
More recent Catholic immigrants come from Eritrea and Ethiopia in East Africa, and Nigeria, Ghana and Liberia in West Africa, Sister Suzanne said.
And just in the last year, she added, her office has made contact with new communities of Mayan Indians from Guatemala, who have recently settled in Florida and Arizona. They speak their own languages, rather than Spanish, meaning that priests who know Quiche and Mam must be brought up on visits from Central America to serve their spiritual needs. "We have Masses for them when we can," she said.
Yet such immigrant groups are small when compared with those Catholics who have arrived from Spanish-speaking nations of Latin America. The latter are well known to Ron Cruz, executive director of the Catholic Conference's Secretariat of Hispanic Affairs. He estimated they number 22 million, slightly more than a third of the American church's total population. About one-fourth were born outside the United States.
Hispanic Catholics defy the geographical stereotypes of men and women who settle within a few hundred miles of the Mexican border or in the neighborhoods of a few of the nation's biggest cities, he said.
"They're virtually all over the country," Mr. Cruz said. "I just came from Portland, Ore., where they have an incredible Hispanic population."
And two years ago, at a workshop for Hispanic Catholics he arranged in Newark, Mr. Cruz said he was "amazed at the number of doctors," men who had immigrated in hope of finding medical work in America.
"It's a whole gamut," he added. "Yes, you have lots of poor, but you also have increasing numbers of professionals." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); CUBA (90%); ASIA (88%); HAITI (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH NEW YORK ARCHDIOCESE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); CUBA (90%); ASIA (88%); HAITI (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (95%); RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); IMMIGRATION (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); REFUGEES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); TRENDS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); CITIES (69%); STATISTICAL METHOD (69%); STATISTICS (69%); BALLOTS (67%); REFERENDUMS (64%); 

PERSON: NIEBUHR, GUSTAV; POPE (JOHN PAUL II) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



66 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
The West Indian Reaganaut

BYLINE: By BRENT STAPLES 

 BODY:
The savage welfare cuts that just passed Congress have their roots in the Reagan revolution, which revived the Victorian view of poverty as a moral ailment brought on by sloth and failure of will -- but never, ever by anything so mundane as lack of opportunity. Black Reaganauts brought a welcome diversity to conservative politics. But their main function was to validate moral indictments of the poor. The most obvious case was Clarence Thomas, who trashed the civil rights movement every chance he got and insulted his sister for resorting to welfare during a crisis. Colin Powell figures in this debate as well, both as a black Reaganaut and a self-identified West Indian.
Because some analyses show them outpacing African-Americans in income, West Indians are routinely held up as proof that discrimination plays no real role in poverty. In "Wealth and Poverty," the bible of the first Reagan White House, George Gilder argued that West Indians born in the United States exceeded even WASP's in education and median income, and that therefore discrimination was no obstacle to black upward mobility. The economist Thomas Sowell took up the case in several books, insisting that the advantage lay not just with West Indians born here but with West Indian immigrants generally. New analyses have cast doubt on both claims. But even taken at face value, the Gilder-Sowell arguments were loaded and tendentious. 
 Ignored was the obvious fact that immigrants are self-selected travelers, primed for upward mobility. West Indian history and culture are special cases, too. Having lived in black societies where segregation was nonexistent, the first wave of West Indian immigrants arrived here fearless of whites, indifferent to racial barriers. The Pullman Company, a major employer of blacks, declined to hire them, knowing that subservience was not their strong suit. The main West Indian asset was an almost religious devotion to the rotating credit associations that capitalized their businesses and that anthropologists trace back to Africa. Surveying Harlem in 1945, The Rev. Adam Clayton Powell noted that West Indians "forged ahead faster than the rest" and received "envious scorn" from African-Americans in the process.
The animosity endures. Consider what transpired when Colin Powell, the American son of Jamaican parents, proposed to Alma Johnson, an African-American from a prominent family in Birmingham. In Mr. Powell's memoir, "My American Journey," Alma's father, R. C. Johnson, says: "All my life, I've tried to stay away from those damn West Indians. Now my daughter's going to marry one." The wedding pictures show Mr. Johnson long-faced and forlorn.
Colin Powell revels in his West Indian heritage -- mentions it every chance he gets -- while keeping a discreet distance from the political uses that some would like to make of that.
He stresses the legendary West Indian frugality, but allows that his parents became homeowners only when his father hit the numbers for $10,000. Thus did the Powells of the gritty South Bronx became the Powells of upscale Hollis, Queens.
Why were West Indian immigrants so successful? The British, he writes, were "absentee landlords," leaving West Indian slaves more or less on their own. "Their lives were hard," he writes, "but they did not experience the crippling paternalism of the American plantation system, with white masters controlling every waking moment of a slave's life."
When Caribbean slavery ended -- a generation earlier than in the U.S. -- "my ancestors [were told] that they were British citizens with all the rights of any subject of the crown. That was an exaggeration; still, the British did establish good schools and made attendance mandatory." The English then filled the civil service with blacks, giving them "self worth" and "an opportunity to develop attitudes of independence."
The tone is considerably more rational than the one we have been hearing for the last 15 years. In subtext at least, Mr. Powell seems to say that even though he walked among the Reaganauts, he was never truly one of them. BRENT STAPLES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS336212 TRUCK TRAILER MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3715 TRUCK TRAILERS (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: PULLMAN CO (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; WEST-INDIAN AMERICANS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICS (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); RELIGION (68%); HISTORY (64%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%); INDICTMENTS (56%); 

PERSON: POWELL, COLIN L (GEN) (RET); STAPLES, BRENT RONALD REAGAN (79%); CLARENCE THOMAS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



67 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: A Degree Doesn't Equal High Pay

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "The Slacker Myth" (Op-Ed, Sept. 27), John Tyler and Frank Levy assure us that "The market for new college graduates is reasonably solid" and conclude that "education is becoming ever more valuable." Perhaps, but relative to what? And what are the policy implications? 
 It is well known that the real earnings of the lower 80 percent of men fell sharply in the 1980's. The declines were the greatest for those with the least education. Does that make education the lifeboat for living standards in the 1990's, as Mr. Tyler and Mr. Levy suggest? For a variety of reasons, the answer is no.
First, the writers correctly point out that earnings of college-educated workers were similar in 1979 and 1993, but this ignores the trends over this period. After seeing their wages increase in the early 80's, those with just college degrees have suffered steady and substantial declines in real pay since 1987. The magnitude of this reduction in wages was not greatly different from that experienced by new workers with just a high school degree.
Second, only one-quarter of the work force had a college degree or more in 1993; two-thirds of the work force had a high school degree or less. Even if schooling had the payoff the writers suggest, it would take decades to shift these percentages enough to recover from the earnings losses of the 1980's. Only those with professional degrees have held their own over the last eight years.
What would be the effect of a massive increase in the supply of college-educated workers on their own wages? How many workers with professional degrees does our economy need?
Already, the United States has higher shares of college-educated workers than its developed-country competitors, and yet, among advanced countries, only the United States experienced both widespread declines in real earnings and sharp increases in inequality in the 1980's.
Education is important for many reasons. But inadequate skills were not the problem in the 1980's, and raising the rate of growth in the share of college-educated workers is not the solution. I suggest the problem is not in the skill mix of American workers but in our labor market institutions.
 
DAVID R. HOWELL
Associate Professor
Graduate School of Management
The New School for Social Research
New York, Sept. 28, 1995

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); WRITERS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); MEN (72%); 

PERSON: HOWELL, DAVID R FRANK LEVY (77%); JOHN TYLER (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



68 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 4; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1643 words

HEADLINE: Study of Chimps Strongly Backs Salt's Link to High Blood Pressure

BYLINE: By HAROLD M. SCHMECK Jr. 

 BODY:
VITAL to life and sought worldwide for its taste, common salt has played a large role in history because of its scarcity in many times and places. Salt has figured in wars, the North African slave trade and an onerous tax in prerevolutionary France. But today salt is cheap and plentiful. Many experts say, in fact, that its wide use is largely responsible for an epidemic of high blood pressure and many resulting deaths from heart disease in the United States and other countries.
A vast amount of data supports this view. But blaming salt for high blood pressure, or hypertension, in the general population has been controversial, even described by some as a myth. 
 Indeed, the evidence has many ambiguities. Some studies have shown little connection between salt consumption and blood pressure. In populations where salt is copious in the diet, high blood pressure is often common, but not everyone who wields the salt shaker with a heavy hand develops the dangerous condition. Furthermore, in those who do, other factors usually cloud the issue: the stresses of modern life, a host of other foods taken in too large or too small amounts, lack of exercise, and too much alcohol and cigarette smoking. How can the role of salt alone be teased out of the complexities of human diet and behavior?
Research that may go far toward doing just that has been completed by an international team. Working with chimpanzees in Africa, the scientists found that adding salt to the animals' diet sent their blood pressure up significantly. When salt was removed, blood pressure came back down. The study, led by Dr. Derek Denton of the Howard Florey Institute of Experimental Physiology and Medicine at the University of Melbourne in Australia, was reported in the October issue of the journal Nature Medicine.
A commentary in the journal by specialists on hypertension, including Dr. Jeremiah Stamler and Dr. Rose Stamler of Northwestern University Medical School, who are husband and wife, called the new data seminal. They said the research adds "significantly to the large body of knowledge about human salt intake" and effects on blood pressure. Common salt is sodium chloride, the compound principally under indictment.
Dr. Jeffrey A. Cutler, director of the clinical applications and prevention program of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute in Bethesda, Md., said the study was "very impressive" and would have been impossible to duplicate in humans. He added that the effects of salt in the diet is a "topic that needs continued clarification in a lot of people's minds."
Dr. Denton, an internationally known authority on the biological role of salt, believes the human hunger for it arose early in hominid development as human ancestors evolved in salt-poor interior regions of Africa. Evolving where salt was scarce, humans developed a strong tendency to feast on it when opportunities arose. Today in some people, the feasting is continual, habitual and, many experts say, dangerous.
Dr. Denton was founding director of the Florey institute and today he has emeritus status there. For years he has been concerned with efforts to clarify salt's role in human high blood pressure.
A definitive answer might be sought by studying an isolated, primitive society where natural diet has very little salt and by offering some of its members an extra salt ration over a long period of time. But that experiment would raise serious ethical questions. Once gripped by the salt habit, the people might be unable to give up dangerously excessive use.
Natural experiments in many parts of the world have already occurred as isolated jungle or farming communities have been introduced to civilization. Such people, living on a largely vegetarian diet with salt a rarity, have little or no high blood pressure. They show no tendency to increase blood pressure with age as is common in industrialized countries.
But these people often develop hypertension when they move to cities and adopt high-salt diets. While this evidence is often used to indict salt, it is also easy to dispute. The migrants from low-salt conditions are also moving to radically new environments, exposing themselves to novel stresses and many dietary changes in addition to extra salt. Which factors are the guilty ones?
Dr. Denton's problem was to find a situation in which nothing at all but long-term salt consumption was changed. He and his colleagues turned to Africa and chimpanzees, the animal species that is by far the closest biologically to humans. At the International Center for Medical Research in Franceville, Gabon, the scientists chose 26 adult chimpanzees who were living comfortably on a diet of mostly fruits and vegetables in long-established groups. The animals had already learned to cope with the stresses of their lives. Adding salt to their diet would involve no other change.
The normal diet for chimpanzees at the research center included very little salt, but large amounts of potassium, protein, vitamins and calcium. Some opponents of the salt hypothesis have argued that dietary shortage of potassium or calcium is the culprit in high blood pressure.
None of the chimpanzees chosen for the experiment had high blood pressure and there was no evidence that their blood pressure was increasing with age as it does in many human populations. After studying the animals for a year in their natural state, the scientists chose half of them and added progressively larger amounts of salt to their daily diets -- first about 5 grams, a little less than one-fifth of an ounce, then 10 grams and finally as much as 15 grams. Translated to human terms, the diets with 5 grams of added salt equaled a modest level of salt use in countries such as the United States and most of Europe. In the 15-gram stage the animals were exposed to salt at a high level for human diet, but well within the rough limits of normal in some human populations.
Some rural Japanese in northern Honshu who have been studied took an estimated 26 grams of salt a day. Some 39 percent of that population over age 40 had high blood pressure. Among them cerebral hemorrhage, which often occurs in people with excessive blood pressure, was the leading cause of death. Public health workers have convinced them to cut back on salt.
In the chimpanzee study in Gabon, most of the animals given extra salt in their diet during a period of 20 months experienced what the authors called "highly significant" rises in blood pressure. Among 7 of the 10 chimpanzees who ate all the extra salt they were offered, the average rise by the end of the long trial period was 33 millimeters of mercury in their systolic blood pressure and 10 millimeters diastolic. That put them solidly in the realm that would be defined as hypertension in humans.
Normal adult human blood pressure is about 120/80, and normal blood pressure in a chimpanzee is 110/70 to 120/80. In the salt experiments, the animals' blood pressure commonly rose as high as 150/90 and sometimes much higher. Among animals in the control group, blood pressure did not rise.
Six months after the extra salt was withdrawn from their diet, all of the chimpanzees in the experimental group had the relatively low blood pressure they had enjoyed before the experiment. Because there was no other change in the animals' life style, the scientists concluded that changes in salt consumption caused the blood pressure changes.
The extra salt was provided in high calcium liquid infant formula. Most of the animals drank all of their intended salt ration. Three took only about half. These animals were assessed separately in the studies. While blood pressure rose sharply in most of the animals that took all the intended salt ration, three had no increase in blood pressure.
This pattern is also seen in human populations. Some people seem to be sensitive to salt and others are not. Dr. Denton said the numbers in the chimpanzee study were too small to extrapolate to humans.
He noted that the cause of human high blood pressure is complex. He believes that some people can tolerate relatively high salt levels in their diet. In some, high blood pressure seems to develop only when excessive salt intake is coupled with other factors such as stress, obesity and excessive alcohol use. He sees the amount of salt that is too much in these people as varying widely but always remaining above a threshold of roughly four grams a day.
"Salt is one of those things where you can have too much or too little," he said. "Too little is downright dangerous." Loss of salt through severe diarrhea is a key threat to life in cholera and some other diseases.
"Probably we have evolved to handle about one, two or three grams a day and probably up to four is all right," Dr. Denton said. Beyond that level he believes risks arise in people who are sensitive to salt. But he cautions against cutting back on salt too abruptly. A sudden change could have dangerous side effects, perhaps including fainting spells and other hazards, especially in elderly people who have grown accustomed to a relatively high level of salt.
In a scientific article two years ago, Dr. Jeremiah Stamler estimated that fully 75 percent of human salt intake in the United States, Britain and many other countries comes from commercially processed food. "This inordinate and unnecessary add-on can be lowered substantially," Dr. Stamler and his co-authors wrote in their commentary accompanying the new report in Nature Medicine. "Such reduction would be a decisive aid to the current health goal of no more than 6 grams of salt per day, and, in the longer term, no more than 4.5 grams per day."
The scientists argued that few measures in preventive medicine would be so simple, so economical, yet capable of achieving so much for human health.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Derek Denton of the University of Melbourne in Australia measuring blood pressure of a chimpanzee in a study in Africa that linked increased salt intake to hypertension.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); AUSTRALIA (86%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (86%); 

COMPANY: BLOOD INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BLOOD INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); AUSTRALIA (86%); UNITED STATES (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (86%); 

SUBJECT: BLOOD PRESSURE; CHIMPANZEES; RESEARCH; MONKEYS AND APES; SALT; DIET AND NUTRITION PRIMATES (91%); HYPERTENSION (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); HEART DISEASE (76%); NUTRITION (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); SLAVERY (72%); SMOKING (69%); INDICTMENTS (69%); ANIMALS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); 

PERSON: SCHMECK, HAROLD M JR; DENTON, DEREK (DR) DEREK DENTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



69 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Kraft Shuffles Agency Roster

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
The Kraft Foods unit of the Philip Morris Companies yesterday announced significant changes in its agency roster, including the elimination of D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles in New York by mutual agreement and the shift of the Post Grape-Nuts cereal account from Grey Advertising in New York to FCB/Leber Katz Partners in New York. The combined billings were estimated at more than $90 million.
Trade publications have reported for weeks that Kraft and D.M.B.& B. would part ways after 66 years because Kraft was selling to CPC International Inc. bakery lines like Entenmann's, Freihofer's and Boboli, which made up the bulk of the Kraft account at D.M.B.& B. "Given the diminishing size of the relationship, it is time for both of us to move on," said Richard V. Hopple, president of D.M.B.& B./North America. 
 John D. Bowlin, president and chief operating officer at Kraft in Northfield, Ill., said, "This wasn't a performance issue, it was purely economics." Televest, the D.M.B.& B. media services unit, will remain agency of record for buying all national commercial time for Kraft in TV programs aimed at adults, he added.
Other brands handled by D.M.B.& B. have been reassigned to other Kraft roster shops: Crystal Light drink mixes to the New York office of Young & Rubicam Inc.; Cool Whip toppings to Foote, Cone & Belding in Chicago, a unit of True North Communications; Good Seasons salad dressings to J. Walter Thompson Chicago, a unit of the WPP Group, and Lender's bagels to the New York office of Thompson.
The Grape-Nuts account was awarded to FCB/Leber Katz, also owned by True North, after a review that began in August; those billings were estimated at $25 million to $27 million. FCB/Leber Katz, which handles Post cereals like Shredded Wheat, topped Grey, which handles Post brands like Raisin Bran, and another Kraft agency, Ogilvy & Mather New York, also part of WPP.
In another shift, Kraft consolidated the Velveeta brand account at the Leo Burnett Company in Chicago by moving the Velveeta Shells and Cheese brand from Foote, Cone in Chicago to Burnett. Those billings were not disclosed.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (93%); PUB (PAR) (93%); IPG (NYSE) (91%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (91%); WPP (LSE) (91%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (93%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (91%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (91%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (71%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: KRAFT FOODS; PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC; D'ARCY MASIUS BENTON & BOWLES INC ALTRIA GROUP INC (93%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (93%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); WPP PLC (91%); FCB/LEBER KATZ PARTNERS (84%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); CPC INTERNATIONAL INC (71%); UNILEVER UK FOODS LTD (71%); JWT (66%); YOUNG & RUBICAM INC (66%); LEO BURNETT CO INC (63%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (58%); DRAFTFCB INC (54%); TAPSA AGENCIA DE PUBLICIDAD SL (54%); NEW YORK (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: KRAFT FOODS; PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC; D'ARCY MASIUS BENTON & BOWLES INC NEW YORK (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: ACCOUNT CHANGES ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); FOOD MFG (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); CHEESE (78%); BRANDING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); BAKERIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%); 

PERSON: SIR GEORGE YOUNG (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



70 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Weak Manufacturing Data Point to More Slow Growth

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2

 BODY:
Consumer spending rose strongly in August, while manufacturing activity remained weak in September, new data showed today, pointing to continued slow economic growth.
"Economic growth has quickened from the sluggish pace of the spring but it is still no more than subdued," said Robert Dederick, an economic consultant to the Northern Trust Company in Chicago. 
 The Commerce Department said Americans spent at an annual rate of $4.93 trillion in August, a rise of 1 percent from July, while incomes were flat at $6.06 trillion and the savings rate declined.
Much depends on consumer spending, since purchases of goods and services fuel two-thirds of the nation's economic activity.
A separate survey, by the National Association of Purchasing Management, found the manufacturing sector shrank in September although at a slower rate than in August.
The association's index of manufacturing activity rose to 48.3 percent in September from 46.9 percent in August. A reading below 50 percent indicates contraction, while one above that points to growth.
The purchasing managers' report showed small gains in production and new orders, after declines in August, but they were below expectations. The apparent weakness in manufacturing revived hopes that the Federal Reserve would need to cut short-term interest rates again this year, and bond prices rose.
Indeed, the report suggested that the Fed might have room to cut rates again, indicating that inflationary pressures were continuing to ease. Only 14 percent of the purchasing executives expected price rises in September -- the lowest proportion in nearly two years.
While the consumer spending report was strong, most of the rise in August reflected strong sales of new cars as dealers aggressively discounted 1995 vehicles to clear the way for 1996 models.
About two-thirds of the $47.6 billion jump in August spending came from higher new-car sales, Commerce Department officials said.
Savings fell to an annual rate of $187.4 billion, or just 3.6 cents on every dollar earned, from $234.6 billion, or 4.5 cents on the dollar, in July, the department said.
Flat August incomes could mean a drop in spending ahead, leading to a repetition of the second quarter, when inventories ballooned after consumers cut back, analysts said.
"Under these circumstances, businesses would be wise to adopt a very cautious policy with respect to inventories through the remainder of the year," said Gordon Richards, an economist with the National Association of Manufacturers.
In a separate report, the Commerce Department said spending on new construction fell two-tenths of 1 percent in August to a seasonally adjusted $530.4 billion after hitting record levels in July on two consecutive months of increases.
The drop was entirely in government projects, which may continue to be weak until officials and lawmakers in Washington resolve questions about next year's budget and the nation's borrowing.
Private construction projects kept growing in August, as relatively low interest rates spurred more building of new homes and apartments.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Personal Income" shows total personal income from 3/94 to 8/95 (Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT NORTHERN TRUST CORP (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); NEW ORDERS (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INFLATION (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); BONDS (71%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (58%); BOND MARKETS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



71 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 24; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
30-Year Bond Posts Gains After More Weak Data

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices ended moderately higher yesterday, bolstered by weak economic data that kept hopes alive for another cut in short-term interest rates.
The price of the 30-year bond rose 14/32 , to 10510/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell as low as 6.43 percent yesterday before settling at 6.47 percent, down from 6.50 percent on Friday. 
 While a Commerce Department report showed a pickup in consumer spending, the market focused largely on a survey by the National Association of Purchasing Management that found that the manufacturing sector continued to contract last month.
The purchasing managers' index rose to 48.3 percent in September from 46.9 percent in August. Many economists had been expecting a reading above 50 percent. A reading below 50 percent indicates contraction. It was the fourth time in five months that the data have showed weakness in manufacturing.
The manufacturing report renewed optimism that the economy's growth was slow enough to allow the Federal Reserve to cut short-term interest rates again this year.
A separate report on construction spending also pointed to slow growth. The Commerce Department said construction spending fell two-tenths of 1 percent in August. Many economists had forecast an increase of half of 1 percent.
Ken McCarthy, founder of the Economic Intelligence Company, a New York research and analysis firm, said the pattern of economic growth seen in recent data was exactly the pattern that the Fed had been aiming to achieve. "They engineered a soft landing and they got it," he said.
"Now the task is to keep the economy moving ahead at about the current pace in 1996," Mr. McCarthy said. "To do that, the Fed will need to encourage growth with a series of gradual interest rate cuts in the year ahead. The need to lower rates will be especially important if the Administration and Congress do actually agree on a budget that lowers the deficit. That's why we continue to expect a 25-basis-point rate cut before the end of the year." A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
The Commerce Department also reported that consumer spending rose 1 percent in August, a sharper increase than expected. But incomes were flat for the month, suggesting that the economy would not grow fast enough in the months to come to reignite inflation and thus giving the Fed room to lower rates, traders said.
At the Treasury's regular weekly bill auction of new three- and six-month maturities yesterday, interest rates rose. Some analysts said they thought that yesterday's bill auctions were a little cheaper than traders were looking for, after last week's Fed decision not to adjust short-term interest rates.
The discount rate for a three-month maturity was 5.34 percent, up from 5.14 the previous week, while a six-month bill rose to 5.38 percent from 5.27 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three- and six-month bills:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.650	97.280	Discounted Rate	5.34%	5.38%	Coupon Yield	5.50%	5.62%	High Price	98.658	97.290	Discounted Rate	5.31%	5.36%	Coupon Yield	5.47%	5.60%	Low Price	98.650	97.280	Discounted Rate	5.34%	5.38%	Coupon Yield	5.50%	5.62%	Accepted at low price	29%	24%	Total applied for	$45,032,231	$47,541,130	Accepted	$12,623,396	$12,614,294	Noncompetitive	$1,366,110	$1,257,224	
 
Both issues are dated Oct. 5. The three-month bills mature on Jan. 4 and the six-month bills on April 4.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows their average discounted rate from 6/95 to 10/95 (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BOND MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT KEN MCCARTHY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



72 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Gains on Talk of Support At Group of Seven Meeting

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar edged up against the Japanese yen and the German mark yesterday, helped by expectations that the leading industrial nations will affirm support for a strong dollar when their monetary officials meet this weekend.
Those expectations were fostered in part by a respite of sorts in the gyrations of the European currency markets. On Sunday, finance ministers and central bankers from the 15 nations of the European Union reiterated their commitment to creating a single currency for Europe by 1999 after a weekend meeting in Valencia, Spain. 
 Their stance preceded a meeting of finance officials and central bankers from the Group of Seven industrial nations -- the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada -- this weekend in Washington. When the group last met in April, it said that it would closely cooperate to bring about an "orderly reversal" of the dollar's slide.
Speculation that such a commitment would be renewed at the October meeting intensified after a Japanese newspaper, Mainichi Shimbun, reported that Group of Seven finance ministers would agree this weekend to let the dollar rise to about 110 yen.
"The dollar has a strong tone as people buy for insurance ahead of the G-7 meeting," said Kevin Weir, currency salesman at ABN-Amro Bank in Chicago. "Everybody is wary of central bank intervention."
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar rose to 100.35 yen from 99.70 yen on Friday. It also edged up to 1.4277 marks from 1.4270.
But the dollar fell to 1.1504 Swiss francs from 1.1560. And the British pound rose to $1.5901 from $1.5845, helped by a rally in British Government bonds, which rose on the expectation of an interest-rate cut.
Against the mark, the dollar retreated from earlier gains after remarks by Otmar Issing, the German central bank's chief economist, helped lift the mark against other European currencies. This buying lifted the mark against the dollar, too.
Mr. Issing said a separate treaty was needed to set conditions for continued membership in a future European monetary union because sanctions under the current treaty were too weak.
"I'm sure that's what was pushing the dollar down against the mark," said Richard Vullo, manager of currency sales at Bayerische Hypotheken und Wechsel Bank in New York.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE HYPOTHEKEN & WECHSEL BANK AG (62%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; JAPAN; EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); EURO (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); BRITISH POUND (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BONDS (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: OTMAR ISSING (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



73 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Trip to Ancestral Italy Has Social, Not Political, Goal;
Good for Business

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Ethics on Vacation" (editorial, Sept. 26), on the trip by Gov. George E. Pataki of New York to Italy and Hungary, is off the mark. 
 Stimulating trade and investment between countries like Hungary that are emerging from the Iron Curtain and countries like Italy that have important business relationships with the United States, particularly in the New York area, is an important function a governor should carry on his priority list.
That Governor Pataki's trip is paid for by the Hungarian-American Chamber of Commerce should not fall under the category of conflict of interest in accepting money from private interests. These chambers of commerce, for the most part, are formed to promote trade and investment between the United States and their country.
Governor Pataki should be commended for promoting the business interests of New York State and the New York region, particularly in Central Europe's newly privatized economies.
 
MANFRED OHRENSTEIN
New York, Sept. 28, 1995
The writer is former Democratic minority leader in the New York State Senate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HUNGARY (91%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (85%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (85%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (85%); NEW YORK STATE SENATE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE SENATE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; HUNGARY; ITALY; UNITED STATES (97%); HUNGARY (91%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ETHICS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (88%); POLITICS (84%); POLITICAL PARTIES (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PRIVATIZATION (72%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); OHRENSTEIN, MANFRED EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



74 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 3, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 3; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Pete Wilson's California Quagmire

BYLINE: By Peter Schrag; Peter Schrag is editor of the editorial page of The Sacramento Bee.

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif.

 BODY:
Gov. Pete Wilson's withdrawal from the 1996 Presidential race will have deeper consequences for California than it had in the sea of Republican contenders, where his candidacy made hardly a ripple. What's far from certain, however, is which Pete Wilson will now occupy the Governor's office in the largest, most influential state.
Will it be the tender, pragmatic moderate of 1990 who in his first successful race for Governor called for more social services and warned about the dangers of failing to make adequate investments in our children? 
 Or will it be the tough Pete Wilson who, in his re-election campaign four years later and then in his short-lived race for the Presidential nomination demanded the elimination of public education and other services for illegal immigrants, called for a 15 percent tax cut in his state and who sued his own state to eliminate affirmative action policies he once supported?
Governor Wilson himself may not be sure. California, he said in his withdrawal speech, must remain "the greatest of states . . . the state that traditionally leads change in America."
But unlike Gen. Douglas MacArthur's old soldier, he also said, "This old Marine ain't about to fade away." Does that mean that he still feels a need to validate himself with the conservatives who control the national (as well as state) Republican Party?
These are crucial questions in a state whose economy has still not recovered from a recession and cuts in defense spending. Its system of government, state and local, has become a Rube Goldberg contraption, so confused and entangled by a string of voter initiatives, from the tax cuts of Proposition 13 of 1978 to the school spending formulas of Proposition 98, that it's virtually incomprehensible. The fractious Legislature, confined by term limits, has just finished perhaps the most anarchic and unproductive session in its history.
The state is plagued by overcrowded, underfinanced schools whose reading and math scores are among the nation's lowest. The spiraling costs of its prison system may, within a decade, eat up almost all of the financing for the state colleges and universities.
These problems will be compounded by the effects on California of the huge budget cuts working their way through Congress in Federal welfare, Medicaid, education and research financing.
Yet necessity also offers Governor Wilson opportunities for the sort of leadership that might give him the Presidential stature in the year 2000 (when he will be 67) that he lacked this year.
There is a constitutional revision commission, most of whose members were appointed by Mr. Wilson himself, that is advocating fundamental reforms in California's dysfunctional government; there are school reform proposals; there are major changes pending at the state and Federal levels in water and environmental policies, in which California has a huge stake.
All these things require a governor more focused on state policy than on Presidential politics. Even a successful candidacy for President may ultimately require it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); EDUCATION REFORM (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); TAX LAW (73%); BUDGETS (73%); MEDICAID (71%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); DEFENSE SPENDING (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (55%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (54%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); PRISONS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHRAG, PETER; WILSON, PETE (GOV) PETE BARTON WILSON (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1995



75 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

A CATHOLIC FAMILY AWAITS THE POPE
 To William J. Reidy, an Irish-Catholic father of nine, Pope John Paul II operates in the world in much the manner Mr. Reidy operates his large household in the affluent Riverdale section of the Bronx: offering guidelines and hoping his flock will believe. "It's like a father," said Mr. Reidy, who was educated in Catholic schools from kindergarten through college and attends Mass every Sunday. [Page A1.]
 

THE PERSON OVERSHADOWS THE PAPACY
 So strong is the Pope's personal impact that it has obscured a major shift in Catholic thinking about the nature of the papal office itself. The newer views of the papacy reject the widely held but never official image of the Pope as an absolute ruler who delegates authority in the Catholic Church to the bishops. [B6.]
 
COMPOSING AN ELABORATE CHOREOGRAPHY
 From Interstate 280 and the New Jersey Turnpike in Newark, which will be closed while his motorcade whizzes by, to a town house on East 72d Street in Manhattan, where he will spend the next four nights, preparations drew to a well-organized close on the eve of the Pope's first visit to the New York area since 1979. [B7.]
 On his last full day in Rome before his four-day trip to the United States, the Pope met with 22 recently ordained American deacons. [B7.]
 What really impresses Rabbi Gary Bretton-Granatoor about the Pope is that he comes across as "a real mensch." NYC by Clyde Haberman. [B7.]
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
TRANSIT AUTHORITY PLANS JOB CUTS
 The Transit Authority would eliminate more than 1,500 jobs next year, mostly in maintenance and cleaning, under draft budgets that would also sharply reduce staffing for the Metro-North and Long Island railroads. The proposed reductions would follow a year in which the authority has already cut more than 1,500 jobs and has made the first widespread service reductions in two decades. And increases are expected in the subway and bus fare and in commuter railroad fares. [B3.]
 
ROAD GETS ROUGHER FOR CABDRIVERS
 On the bumpy road to the American Dream, the pothole that is New York City's hack license exam has grown deeper. The city expanded the knowledge of reading, riding, 'rithmetic and other subjects demanded of applicants eager to pilot yellow cabs through Manhattan (and sometimes other boroughs). [B3.]
 
A VICTORY, AND KASPAROV PULLS AWAY
 In a hard-fought battle, in which the advantage first went to Viswanathan Anand, Gary Kasparov struggled through to win Game 14 of the world chess championship. He thus achieved an all but insurmountable 3-point lead in the 20-game series, 8 1/2-5 1/2. Afterward, the champion said, "The fight for the title is over, but the match is still on." [B2.]
 
REGION
 
TRAIN ACCIDENT INJURES 23
 A Metro-North commuter train smashed into a flatbed truck at a crossing, derailing and injuring 23 people, the authorities said. The train was en route from Waterbury, Conn., to Bridgeport shortly after 7 A.M. when it hit the truck, which had become stuck while hauling a crane across the tracks. The train was carrying 65 to 70 passengers in two cars being pushed by a diesel locomotive. [B4.]
 Chronicle B2

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Inflation" shows month-to-month change in consumer prices in New York City and 21 nearby counties from '93-'95. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ITALY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); ROME, ITALY (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ITALY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); ROME, ITALY (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (86%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (86%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (73%); BOARD GAMES (73%); BUDGETS (72%); LAYOFFS (67%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (60%); 

PERSON: POPE JOHN PAUL II (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



76 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: NOT GUILTY: A CITY REFLECTS;
In the City of the Beautiful People, Trial Hinged on Uglier Issues

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 3

 BODY:
In the end, trials never happen in a vacuum. Moments after the jury handed down its verdict in the O. J. Simpson murder trial, a group of Los Angeles police officers parading in front of the criminal courthouse building here was jeered by a mostly black throng of spectators.
Many conflicting forces are likely to have combined in the acquittal of O. J. Simpson, but perhaps none has loomed larger than the role of the Los Angeles Police Department, as personified by Mark Fuhrman, the detective whose racist views caused him to be vilified by both defense and prosecution. In effect, the crowd outside the courthouse was a pointed reminder that the credibility of the police department and basic issues like unequal justice and racial bias still bedevil this strife-weary city. 
 Nearly four years after the convulsions, turmoil and fear that followed the beating of the black motorist Rodney G. King, the police are still considered an occupying force in large segments of the community. And the not-guilty verdict in the Simpson trial, many fear, is likely to fortify that view.
Indeed, while in a narrow sense, the Simpson case was simply about whether the wealthy and charming athlete killed his former wife and her friend, many Angelenos suggested that the jurors ultimately cast their vote on the very fate of this sprawling city's social fabric.
This is a city in which wealth and celebrity are among the most valued social currency -- and Mr. Simpson has certainly had a good share of both. Like scripts from the nearby Hollywood soundstages, scandal and crime here often achieve a kind of theatrical quality and drama.
Until the Simpson trial, there were other criminal dramas and intrigues that fed the city's curiosity, like the beating of the truck driver Reginald Denny in the rioting after the King verdict, which appeared to validate the fears of white residents; the trial of the Menendez brothers, who are even now facing a second round in court on charges of murdering their parents, or the allegations of scandal surrounding Michael Jackson, the pop singer who had been investigated on accusations of child molestation. More recently, there was the trial of Heidi Fleiss, on charges of running a high-priced prostitutions.
But it is also a city whose recent rambunctious history has been punctuated by ugly episodes involving police brutality and deep-rooted racism.
What makes Los Angeles different from, say New York or Chicago, is that since the Rodney King trial, many people -- black and white -- feel that the issue of race has so tainted the prism through which people view their neighbors that there is no longer any common agreement on the issues that face the city, never mind how to solve them. Suspicion and fear have infected the political climate here like a deadly virus.
Around lunch tables, over barber chairs, in offices and movie studios, in Koreatown restaurants, on the streets of the South Central area, the main questions are these: Will the verdict of not guilty exacerbate still simmering ethnic and racial tensions? Has anything changed since the convulsions after the Rodney King case? Has the city learned anything from the Simpson verdict?
"A lot of people will pay the price for O. J.'s freedom, because there's no question there will be a backlash," said Susan Estrich, a law professor at the University of Southern California.
"There will be a tremendous effort to reform the criminal justice system and re-examine things, and the whites will end up blaming the blacks, and the blacks will end up blaming the whites, and everyone will blame the police and the system," Ms. Estrich added.
Susan Grigsby Gates, a Los Angeles writer and newspaper columnist, also suggested that the verdict could inflame whites hostile and resentful of blacks. She said that she was sitting next to a black man when the Simpson acquittal was announced and that he turned to her and said, "Oh boy, we're going to have to pay for this."
She added, "A lot of the angst surrounding this centers on the fact that 9 of the 12 jurors are African-American, and the assumption is going to be drawn from this that they simply let him go."
Nonetheless, the feeling among many blacks here was that the jury had achieved a rough justice by acquitting Mr. Simpson, an action that in the view of some will have a far-reaching, positive impact on the black community here.
"I think this jury sent a message that the time has come here in Los Angeles and in America that there must be a level playing field for everybody," said John Mack, president of the Urban League of Los Angeles.
"If we are going to be completely honest," he added, "there is the issue of class and affluence. O. J.'s celebrity and status enabled him to retain a superstar African-American lawyer in contrast to what is more typically experienced by the average person in South Central L.A."
Probably nowhere was the reaction more emotional than at the First African Methodist Episcopal Church on South Harvard, a predominately black congregation where a large crowd gathered to watch the verdict on big-screen televisions.
Four years ago, after the acquittal of four white police officers in the first trial in the beating of Rodney King, Mayor Tom Bradley stood at the church's pulpit and pleaded for calm as violence broke around the city.
Today, Myles E. Goodson, a retired pharmaceutical salesman, bowed his head in prayer and held hands with his neighbors as the court clerk read the verdict. Then he erupted in applause.
"After the Rodney King incident and after the riots, black people have been on a downward spiral, with a new mood in the nation which is basically anti-black," Mr. Goodson said. "We were desperate for any kind of victory, no matter what it was."
Not far away, Roland B. Lewis, Jr., who was at the gathering with his 8-month-old daughter, agreed, saying: "We have to quit denying there's a problem with race relations and just waiting for things to blow up in our face. We need to talk about race."
Even before the verdict, it was plain just how passionately the Simpson case pressed upon the sore spots of the city's psyche. When the defense lawyer Johnnie L. Cochran Jr. showed up at the courthouse last week surrounded by bodyguards from the Nation of Islam, many Jews, including Ronald Goldman's father, took deep offense, recalling the group's reputation for anti-white and anti-Semitic invective.
Today, some members of Los Angeles's large Jewish community reacted bitterly to the acquittal.
"This is a disaster for black-Jewish relations," said Joel Kotkin, a public police fellow at Pepperdine University and the author of "Tribes," a book about how ethnic and racial groups become economically successful.
"What Johnnie Cochran has done is allow the brownshirts in the courtroom while he's auguring about racism," he added.
"And the fact that he had the nerve to compare Fuhrman to Hitler is the ultimate hypocrisy," he said, referring to Mr. Cochran's closing arguments.
But Danny Bakewell, chairman of the Brotherhood Crusade, a black community development organization, took strong issue with Jews who have criticized Mr. Cochran.
"I don't think it helps when anyone suggests that Cochran's use of the Holocaust doesn't compare in any way to the pain and suffering to those in the African-American community," Mr. Bakewell said. "Moreover, pain and suffering doesn't exclusively belong to anyone."
Not everyone, however, felt today's verdict would have a lasting impact on the community. Steven Yagman, a Los Angeles defense lawyer, said: "Understandably and rightly, the black community in Los Angeles abhors the years of racism directed against them from the L.A.P.D., but that doesn't justify this verdict."
Nonetheless, Mr. Yagman said: "A few weeks from now, no one will think twice about this. Los Angeles is a very, very passive place, and it's highly unlikely that this verdict will have any lasting impact."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPARTMENT (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPARTMENT (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SIMPSON MURDER CASE; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; BLACKS; POLICE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION VERDICTS (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); MURDER (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ACQUITTAL (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); SCANDALS (75%); CHILD ABUSE (72%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); RIOTS (72%); CELEBRITIES (71%); FILM (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (64%); CHILDREN (61%); RESTAURANTS (60%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, KENNETH B; FUHRMAN, MARK (DETECTIVE); SIMPSON, O J; SIMPSON, NICOLE BROWN; GOLDMAN, RONALD LYLE MICHAEL JACKSON (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



77 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Hip-Hop Club (Gang?) Is Banned in the Bronx;
Cultural Questions About Zulu Nation

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER 

 BODY:
There was a sense of occasion about this ceremony of renewal at the austere red-brick towers of the Bronx River Houses in late August. A smiling Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, flanked by a retinue of officials, was on hand to help plant a tree, a symbol of the city's effort to give the embattled housing project a fresh start.
Officials call this crackdown on crime and graffiti Operation Commitment, and proudly proclaim it a model for the entire city. But one person not present that morning was Bronx River Houses' most famous native son, Afrika Bambaataa, an easygoing hulk of a man who is considered an originator of rap and hip-hop and who has recorded with the likes of James Brown and John Lydon, formerly of the Sex Pistols. He is still greeted with casual familiarity by his fellow residents, while fans from all over the world make this 44-year-old housing project in the West Farms section a place of pilgrimage because of him. 
 Mr. Bambaataa (pronounced bom-BAT-uh) would not have been especially welcome at the ceremonies for Operation Commitment this summer. That is because, in addition to being the progenitor of a musical-cultural style, he is also the father of a loose organization born 20-odd years ago at Bronx River, the Universal Zulu Nation. Mr. Bambaataa calls it a "hip-hop community" with members all over the world brought together by music and fellowship.
But police and housing officials say it is a gang, responsible for much of what was bad at Bronx River, which was a place where few walls were free of graffiti and where routine criminal activity -- drug dealing, robberies and shootings -- flourished. The Universal Zulu Nation has been expunged from the project, and officials say good riddance. In the spring, the group, which had met monthly at the project's community center since its inception, was barred from doing so. Colorful murals with the organization's name and logo, painted on the center's outside walls by one of the Bronx's best-known muralists and photographed by tourists, were removed.
At the project, there is anger over what happened to the group. And some residents see cultural insensitivity in a mayoral initiative that slapped down what some consider a local institution, no more threatening than any youth social club.
"The Zulus are like a quieting force," said Louis Andrus, president of the tenants association. "They quell a lot of things that are going around."
Still, police and housing officials say they have received numerous complaints in recent years about harassment of tenants by Zulu members. Ruben Franco, chairman of the city's housing authority, said some members had stopped and searched people at the project. Mr. Andrus acknowledged that some older people felt intimidated, understandably, in the mere presence of any large grouping of youths.
Mr. Franco said: "It was my decision they had to go. There was a general climate of disorder and hopelessness, and they were part of it."
Mr. Bambaataa himself is vague about his age, where he lives (he grew up at Bronx River, but says he now only stays at his "godbrother's" apartment there from time to time), and his given name. But he is emphatic that Zulu members are not a gang and have not harassed Bronx River residents. "I know that's a bunch of jive," he said. "If somebody got out of discipline, then we talk to these young adults and teach them respect."
Oddly, Mr. Franco and Mr. Bambaataa were both guests at a ceremony at the Bronx River community center last year for graffiti painters who had switched to canvas.
What is a gang, and does the Zulu Nation qualify? The ill feelings left by Operation Commitment stem from a clash on this question. To some inside and outside the project, the police, housing officials and the Mayor's office, unaware of Mr. Bambaataa's status in the musical world or his prestige among youth, have unfairly tarred his organization with the gang label.
To the city officials, getting rid of the Zulu Nation was essential to Operation Commitment's success. "They had made a mess of the whole place," said Walter Alicea, the Police Department's deputy commissioner for community affairs. So far, the whole operation looks good, they say. "This little experiment we're doing is showing great, promising signs," said Dennison Young Jr., Mayor Giuliani's counsel, in whose office the project was born.
Several officials explicitly connect the expulsion of the Zulus with what they say is a drop in crime at the project, which is home to 3,100 people in the West Farms area.
"In the five months since the graffiti and the Zulu Nation are gone, crime is down 52 percent and there seems to be a more upbeat feel to the development," John Hamill, the New York City Housing Authority's public information manager, wrote in a memorandum last month.
Though the police broadly ascribed criminal activity to the group, they could not connect it to specific crimes. Inspector Edward Delatorre, commander of the 43d Precinct, said he "couldn't say for sure" whether members had been arrested at Bronx River. Capt. Alan Powell, the ranking housing police officer there, said, "We never could actually link anything with the Zulu Nation as far as crime was concerned."
In his two and half years as manager of the projects, Gary Watt could not recall any members' having been arrested.
Mr. Andrus applauds Operation Commitment for making Bronx River seem cleaner and safer. Muggings in the hallways are no longer routine, and trash no longer blows down the pathways. A police trailer provides a 24-hour law enforcement presence on the grounds -- at least for now. Tenant patrols have been increased.
But Mr. Andrus questions whether the Zulus were part of the problem. After Mr. Franco announced his intention to bar the group, Mr. Andrus wrote a letter on its behalf, saying, "I have not once thought of them as a gang but more like a club being taught principles and pride."
Alexie Torres, who grew up in the same building as Mr. Bambaataa, said: "I would challenge anyone who calls them a gang. The Zulu Nation was the only organization in the community that organized young people."
Ms. Torres, director of Youth Ministries for Peace and Justice, which is based at a church across the street from the projects, said: "These people were targeted when indeed they could have been used as a resource. You took the only organization that was doing anything with young people and you literally isolated them."
In interviews with residents below age 40, there was near-unanimous support for the Zulus and for Mr. Bambaataa, universally referred to as Bam. Several youths, in their teens and 20's, said Mr. Bambaataa had taken them on tour with him.
"The Zulu Nation is suffering for its past," said Anthony Brown, a 37-year-old building maintenance contractor. "It was a gang, per se. Now it's pretty much a community organization. They help young people. Bambaataa is a scapegoat."
Sandra Johnson, 31, said Mr. Bambaataa was "trying to help the community, keep the kids out of trouble."
Dara Lee, 25, who was strolling through the project grounds with a friend, said: "I have the utmost respect for the brother. I've been to a couple of his meetings. He teaches not to go out robbing and stealing."
Several older residents, however, said the organization was mysterious to them, was perhaps a gang or a cult and was troubling because it seemed to function for some youths as a substitute family. None of the older residents admitted to having witnessed violence by members, but none wanted to be quoted by name.
Some of the group's literature, provided by by Mr. Bambaataa, denounces the idea that it is a "gang, hoodlums, stick-up artists," and includes advice to use condoms and warnings about saliva in the transmission of AIDS.
In the late 60's, Mr. Bambaataa was a proud member of one the Bronx's more violent street gangs, the Black Spades. "That was then, this is now," Mr. Bambaataa said affably. In the mid-1970's, as the gang culture was fading, he formed the Zulu Nation, which was organized at first primarily around break-dancers and rappers. It later graduated to be propagator of what Mr. Bambaataa calls his "universalist" philosophy. As enunciated in his characteristically diffuse style, it has a strong Afrocentric tinge, though Mr. Bambaataa said people of all races were in the group.
"We don't want knowledge saying Greece is the master of civilization, when a lot of the knowledge comes from Africa and Egypt," he said. "Jesus wasn't born on the 25th of December. It's just a holiday. We take the truth from James Brown, from Farrakhan, from Sly and the Family Stone."
As he sat at an outdoor table in the project, residents continually walked up to greet him. Mildly, he expressed surprise that city officials had taken after his group. But the meetings have been moved for now, and the community center's walls are back to their original plain red brick. The police said Zulu members cooperated fully.
But the affair has not left their leader without feelings of anger and hurt. "We feel that Mr. Franco and Mr. Giuliani didn't do their research," Mr. Bambaataa said stiffly.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Afrika Bambaataa, a rap and hip-hop pioneer, is a prophet without official honor in the Bronx River Houses. City officials have barred a group he founded there, the Universal Zulu Nation, and have removed its murals, below. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times; Photographs courtesy of Zulu Nation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL ZULU NATION

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSAL ZULU NATION

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: GRAFFITI; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; BRONX RIVER HOUSES (BRONX); HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING HIP HOP CULTURE (91%); RAP MUSIC (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); GRAFFITI (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MAYORS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); ROBBERY (63%); VISUAL ARTISTS (61%); 

PERSON: NOSSITER, ADAM; BAMBAATAA, AFRIKA RUDY GIULIANI (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



78 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: NOT GUILTY: THE RACIAL PRISM;
Racial Split at the End, as at the Start

BYLINE: By MARTIN GOTTLIEB 

 BODY:
The seven workers at the Pasqua Coffee Bar in lower Manhattan like to joke around with one another, to trade stories about family and regular customers, and to help one another out in jams.
But until the astonishingly abrupt culmination of the O. J. Simpson murder trial yesterday, they never seemed to get around to discussing what, for much of America, has been a prickly and divisive topic. 
 Then, as the voice of the court clerk intoning "not guilty" came over the restaurant's radio, Charmon Savage, a black man who works in the kitchen, jumped up, punched the air with both fists and exclaimed, "Yes! Yes! Yes!"
Geraldine Foney, the restaurant manager, who is white, lowered her head with disgust in her eyes. "I thought he should have rotted in hell," she said.
And several other women on the staff, including Debi Diaz, a counterwoman, grumbled in disbelief after hearing the verdict of the jurors, nine of whom are black. "They have to retry him," she said. "It's ridiculous, you know."
The scene at the Pasqua Bar was repeated in thousands of different settings across the country yesterday, with reactions that seemed often to be shaped by race -- especially by race -- sometimes by the person's sex and frequently by a jaded belief that personal wealth can triumph over just about anything.
At the Texas Bar-B-Q in downtown Dallas, a black-owned restaurant, a couple of black men greeted the verdict with eruptions of elation. Several white customers quietly left shortly afterward.
At Jocks n Jills Sports Bar at the CNN Center in Atlanta, the reaction was much the same as the verdict came over a bank of wall-to-wall television sets -- black customers often embraced and cheered; whites sat in stony silence.
Over the Internet, the comments were often starkly racial.
Since it first began to transfix the country in June 1994, the Simpson murder case has been a combination soap opera, passion play and national Rorschach test laden with sex, celebrity, wealth, violence and, perhaps most sensitively, race.
The reactions to the verdict parallel the racial divide in every opinion poll taken since the trial began. Separated by a constant gap of about 40 percentage points, many whites seemed to hold fast to the belief that Mr. Simpson was guilty, while blacks believed as adamantly in his innocence. Several polls indicate that behind the response of many blacks is a deep suspicion of the police and the criminal justice system.
A poll taken by CBS News immediately after the verdict found that about 6 in 10 whites believed the wrong verdict was reached, while 9 in 10 blacks said the jury had come to the right conclusion. Both blacks and whites said Mr. Simpson was given a fair trial.
While a majority of whites had said the trial was fair in last weekend's CBS News poll, that number rose after the verdict. And among blacks it nearly doubled, to about 8 in 10 from about 4 in 10.
At a time of wide uncertainty over any number of issues in the United States, the disparate reactions may reflect more than black wariness with the police.
Russell Adams, chairman of the department of Afro-American studies at Howard University, said, "We have been for the last 10 or 15 years in a racial polarization posture, part of it caused by vagueness on the part of the economy, part caused by the sense of the center not having held, of a moral disarray and, let me use this phrase, of an ethnic disarray -- the expected roles that had worked for people in the past are no longer predictable."
For all this, there were more than a few black people who said yesterday that they thought Mr. Simpson was guilty, and a larger number of whites who said they believed there was a reasonable doubt.
At the Hartsfield International Airport in Atlanta, where the reading of the verdicts led to delays on several Delta Air Lines flights, the overwhelmingly white crowd in Concourse A greeted the news quietly, but two or three white women applauded and a white man thrust his arms aloft and cheered.
In Washington, James Fisher, a black 23-year-old clerical worker at the Department of Agriculture, said, as some other blacks did: "I feel he did the murders. I expected the verdict. I figured his lawyers were good."
For the most part, though, the sentiments ran passionately in the opposite direction.
"It's about racism," said John Thomas, 27, who is black, as he sat in the emergency room of Kings County Hospital in heavily black central Brooklyn. "Today, racism took a solid blow."
But in Chicago, Katherine Long, 36, an arts administrator who is white, said Mr. Simpson's acquittal would increase racial problems more than if he had been convicted. "They're opening a very big can of worms with this," she said, "and people are going to think that black jurors always acquit black men.
"It sets a precedent, which will hearten racists who think that they should stick with their own, like a Jewish juror should find a Jew innocent," Ms. Long added. "It will perpetuate myths."
At the Connecticut Street projects in San Francisco, where Mr. Simpson grew up, the sounds of celebration shook the sidewalk. Rap music poured from an open van. Cars slowed and honked. People danced in their doorways.
"This has been going on for years in our country to the black people," said Bonnie Beasley, 55, who lives a few blocks away in a house next to the one where Mr. Simpson's mother lives. "What happened with Mike Tyson?"
"In every city there is a Fuhrman," she added, referring to Mark Fuhrman, the racist former detective whose role in the case was emphasized by Mr. Simpson's lawyers. "That's America, but this verdict shows the black race has hope."
Stephen Bowers, an investor who is white and was having lunch at the Jocks n Jills Sports Bar in Atlanta, saw race as an undermining influence in the trial.
"The case turned when the black jurors pivoted from looking at the murder to looking at the police," he said. "O. J. should have burned and the cops should have lost their jobs. Instead, O. J. does no time and the cops go on being cops."
In a sentiment expressed by numerous people around the country, David Epps, 26, who is white and was also at the restaurant, said: "If you've got enough money to hire Johnnie Cochran and Robert Shapiro, you get off. If it was you or me we'd go to jail."
Around the country, too, many women also said they were hit hard by the verdict because of an empathy for Mr. Simpson's former wife, Nicole, who, according to testimony, endured years of abuse.
"He should have gone to jail for all those years of beating her," Rosalind Alvarez, 28, said, as she shopped at a neighborhood market in Buffalo, where Mr. Simpson starred as a running back for the Buffalo Bills football team. "Imagine, a man can kill his wife and walk away. What kind of justice do we have here?"
That was a question that John Zelenka, a white technician from Rockland County, N.Y., had as he walked away from Times Square, where a crowd of black men erupted in cheers as they saw the verdict reported on a large high-tech screen on the old Times Tower.
Mr. Zelenka, his head held low, said, "I'm certain the guy did it." More disturbing, he said, was the reaction. "That disappointed me," he said. "You could see it in the crowd -- it was along race lines."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Passers-by watched the verdict with shock through the windows of the "Today" show studios at Rockefeller Center, left (Carrie Boretz for The New York Times); at her restaurant in Harlem, Sylvia Woods cheered as she hugged her daughter and a waitress. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SIMPSON MURDER CASE; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; BLACKS; PUBLIC OPINION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION VERDICTS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); MEN (78%); MURDER (77%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); 

PERSON: GOTTLIEB, MARTIN; SIMPSON, O J; SIMPSON, NICOLE BROWN; GOLDMAN, RONALD LYLE ORENTHAL JAMES 'O J' SIMPSON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



79 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-8
 
PEACE ON TAIWAN ISLANDS
Though tensions are rising between China and Taiwan on larger issues, the dispute over the islands of Kinmen and Matsu, once a major irritant, has subsided. A3
 
BRITISH LABORITE ROUSES PARTY
At the annual conference of the British Labor Party, the party leader, Tony Blair, shifted his emphasis from remaking the party to remaking the country. A4
 
ALGERIA PREPARES ELECTION
Although Islamic militants have threatened to kill voters, Algeria's Government announced nominees who will be on the presidential election ballot next month. A4
 
ATTACK WOUNDS MACEDONIAN
The Macedonian President, Kiro Gligorov, a close ally of the United States, was gravely wounded in a car-bomb attack that killed his driver, officials said. A8
 
A nationwide cease-fire in Bosnia is said to be unlikely. A8
 
A money shortage is impeding tribunals on war crimes. A8
 
Calcutta Journal: A tradition faces end of the road. A4
 
National A9-15, A22
 
CONCERN ABOUT MEDICARE PLAN
Breaking a long silence, the American Medical Association said it was concerned about Republican plans to overhaul Medicare. A1
 
NOT GUILTY
O. J. Simpson was found not guilty of killing his former wife and a friend, ending one of the most widely watched trials in the nation's history. A1
 
FREEZE FRAME
At the moment the verdict was read, the whole country, it seemed, stood still. A1
 
OPINIONS EVERYWHERE
Whether it was cheering or disappointment, everyone had a reaction to the verdict. A1
 
A SUSPECT NO MORE
O. J. Simpson left court free of criminal charges, but not of the side effects of the case. A10
 
LAWYERS AFTER A MARATHON
In the aftermath, lawyers on both sides of the case were emotional, for different reasons. A11
 
SIGNS FROM THE JURY
When the time came for the reading of the verdict, the jury in the Simpson case spoke loudly with small gestures. A11
 
A TELEVISION DAY
As television recorded the surreal day, sometimes the most effective broadcasters were the ones who said nothing. A12
 
DEAL-MAKERS' DELIGHT
With the end of the trial, book agents and others looking to turn the case into gold got to work. A10
 
A PRESIDENTIAL VETO
President Clinton vetoed a bill to pays for Congress's administrative expenses, saying he would not approve the lawmakers' budget while other spending measures were incomplete. A22
 
DISSECTING A HEAT WAVE
Federal researchers have been trying to figure out why at least 500 people died during a heat wave in Chicago last summer. A9
 
REPUBLICAN AND GAY
Some gay Republicans are finding that they are encountering the most hostility not from fellow party members, but from other homosexuals. A9
 
RULING IN MAGAZINE CASE
A judge's ruling in a case involving an attempt to prevent Business Week from publishing an article has set the stage for an appeals court battle. A9
 
PROSTATE CANCER FINDING
A low-fat diet could help fight prostate cancer, new findings by researchers suggest. A14
 
Education B9
 
In Michigan, a high school designed for the high-tech future.
 
At the State Univeristy of New York, a plan for remedial education.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
CONSIDERING QUESTIONS OF FAITH
Like many area Catholics, the Reidy family of the Bronx will be touched by the Pope's visit this week. It is a chance to think in a quiet, personal way about a religion that so permeates their lives that they rarely have the chance to step back and consider it. A1
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-20
 
A British art show expands into a festival of African culture. C13
 
Theater: Cocteau Rep's "Waiting for Godot." C20
 
Film: "Lamerica." C13
 
"The Addiction." C16
 
"Kicking and Screaming." C16
 
Music: "Otello" at the Met. C13
 
Dance: Peggy Spina. C20
 
Books: Early days at the C.I.A.C19
 
Book Notes C19
 
Television: Shows about women on television. C20
 
The Living Section C1-9
 
Virtual pornography. C1
 
 Battling bias in restaurants. C1
 
Romancing the avocado. C6
 
Health Page C11
 
Personal Health: Active elders outstrip youth on fitness goals.
 
Rates of eating disorders outdistance earlier estimates.
 
Business Digest D1
 
Sports B10-15
 
Baseball: Yankees win Game 1. B11
 
Braves Edge Rockies. B41
 
Basketball: Nets sign O'Bannon. B15
 
Columns: Vecsey on the Playoffs B11
 
Football: Hampton expected to miss one game. B15
 
Hockey: Devils trade Lemieux. B14
 
Obituaries B8
 
Judy Dearing, costume designer.
 
Henry Smith, congressman during the Vietnam and Watergate eras.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A20-21
 
Editorials
 
The Simpson verdict.
 
A Pope for modern times.
 
Long night in Nigeria.
 
Plans to fly blind on the economy.
 
Letters
 
Thomas L. Friedman: The French ostrich.
 
Frank Rich: The L.A. shock treatment.
 
Scott Turow: Simpson prosecutors pay for their blunders.
 
Donald C. Alexander: Hired guns for the I.R.S.
 
Chronicle B2
 
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); TAIWAN (94%); ALGERIA (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (57%); 

STATE: WEST BENGAL, INDIA (57%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS WEEK (50%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); TAIWAN (94%); ALGERIA (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (57%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (57%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS VERDICTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); VETO (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); JURY TRIALS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); MEDICARE (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); HISTORY (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); ACQUITTAL (71%); JUDGES (71%); WEATHER (70%); WAR CRIMES (68%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (68%); LEGISLATION (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (62%); LITERARY AGENTS (60%); RELIGION (56%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); TONY BLAIR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



80 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: A VISIT FROM THE POPE: PREPARATIONS;
From Newark to New York, An Elaborate Choreography

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON 

 BODY:
From Interstate 280 and the New Jersey Turnpike in Newark, which will be closed while his motorcade whizzes by, to a town house on East 72d Street in Manhattan, where he will spend the next four nights, the preparations drew to a well-organized conclusion yesterday on the eve of Pope John Paul II's first visit to the New York area since 1979.
The Pope is to arrive in Newark this afternoon for a visit that will include a meeting with President Clinton, prayers in John Cardinal O'Connor's official residence at St. Patrick's Cathedral in Manhattan and a speech to the United Nations General Assembly. 
 As construction workers in hard hats lumbered past joggers in bandanas and park rangers in Smokey Bear-style hats, Cardinal O'Connor went on an inspection tour of Central Park. The Great Lawn looked much as it would before a rock concert, with bulldozers that went beep-beep-beep as they shifted into reverse to smooth the dirt in front of the portable stage.
But this time, it will support an altar instead of musicians and their instruments, and the amplification system will carry words of inspiration to worshipers up to a quarter-mile away.
The arrangements are no less elaborate in Newark, where more than 700 police officers and hundreds of F.B.I. and Secret Service agents will be on duty today when the Pontiff lands at Newark International Airport. He is to be greeted by President Clinton before leaving for Sacred Heart Cathedral, which is at the center of a two-mile square that will be closed to traffic from about 11 A.M. until dark. The police will start ticketing and towing cars inside a smaller, 32-block zone at 7 A.M.
"A full-court press is on," the police director of Newark, William R. Celester, said. "We are pressing into service everything that we have."
The heaviest traffic delays in Newark will be between 3 P.M., when the Pope's plane is due to land, and 7 P.M., when he is expected to leave for Manhattan. Traffic will be stopped on Interstate 280 and the New Jersey Turnpike while the Pope and the President are on the way from the airport to the cathedral.
In New York, city officials issued a four-day gridlock alert for Manhattan. To encourage motorists not to drive into Manhattan while the Pope is in town, street cleaning rules will be suspended in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx today through Sunday in the hope of freeing up parking spaces. The Transportation Department urged motorists who live outside the city to park in those three boroughs and take subways or buses to Manhattan, where, it said, several areas had "particular potential for congestion," including the East Side, from the Battery to 125th Street. The Pope will be staying at the residence of the Vatican's representative to the United Nations, on East 72d Street.
Transportation officials warned that traffic congestion may spill over to the West Side tomorrow and Saturday. For Friday, when the Pope is scheduled to say Mass at Aqueduct Race Track, the Transportation Department advised drivers to avoid the Belt Parkway, the Van Wyck Expressway, the Nassau Expressway and Rockaway Boulevard.
Preparing for and protecting the Pope is expected to cost New York City $5 million to $7 million in police overtime and another $1 million in what Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani called "incremental costs." Newark has set aside $300,000 for police overtime and $2.3 million for equipment, including boats that will patrol the Passaic River during the Mass at Sacred Heart.
But officials in the two cities said there would be a payoff from the Pontiff's trip. Mr. Giuliani and city economic development officials have estimated that the visit will generate about $65 million in direct and secondary spending in the city, including hotels, souvenirs, food and transportation. That would produce about $2.13 million in city tax revenues, the city's Economic Development Corporation estimated. City Hall officials also noted that the Federal Government reimburses the city for most of the costs of protecting foreign dignitaries, including the Pope.
The police command and control center, at Police Headquarters in lower Manhattan, will coordinate 18 city agencies and 17 police units. How many officers will be involved is a closely held secret: the chief of department, Louis R. Anemone, would say only that "thousands" of officers will be on duty.
"I'm looking for that balance between access and the Pope's safety," Chief Anemone said. "It's a fine line we're walking."
Chief Anemone said that the police had received "a couple" of "off the wall calls to 911," but that there had been no serious threats.
Referring to the last papal visit in 1979, Chief Anemone said security this time would be tighter. The Pope will not ride in an open-air limousine, and the public will be kept farther away. "The world is different," he said. "He himself has been a target already."
This time, the authorities will have have high-technology help: a police helicopter with a video camera will hover above all events, feeding live video to the command center. But they will also be in constant touch with police officers on the street, including the contingent assigned to one particular street -- East 72d, between Fifth Avenue and Madison Avenue.
At least one officer has been stationed on the block for the last six weeks, residents said. Yesterday, officers took up posts at the entrance of each building on the block after removing the mailbox at the corner of 72d Street and Madison Avenue. (The police told residents they will bring it back after the Pope leaves.)
Parking was prohibited on both sides of the street, and by nightfall barricades had been put up to block traffic. Neighbors have been notified that once the Pope arrives, they will have to be escorted by the police. But they will not be asked for identification; people who say they are going to an address not on that block will be asked to take another route. Two groups of about 50 police officers each were briefed yesterday on who lives where on the block.
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York was working to accommodate hundreds of reporters who will want to record the Pope's every action -- and who will undoubtedly have questions about his papacy past and present. The Quinn Library at Fordham University was put on alert to provide answers. "I told everyone, 'Brush up on your encyclicals,' " said Linda LoSchiavo, the director.
But despite the anticipation, the preparations and the publicity, not everyone was aware that the Pope was coming to New York.
"What's going on?" asked Helena Vrinera as she walked on a path around the Great Lawn yesterday with a camera dangling from her neck. "I don't know. I'm a tourist from Argentina."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laying flowers yesterday on the altar steps at Sacred Heart Cathedral in Newark, which Pope John Paul II is to visit this week, were Tony Santos and Gus Santos of Santos Flowers. The 75-year-old Pope, who is making his first trip to the New York area since 1979, is scheduled to arrive at Newark International Airport this afternoon. Parts of Interstate 280 and the New Jersey Turnpike will be closed for his motorcade. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH NEW JERSEY TURNPIKE AUTHORITY INC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); RELIGION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); AIRPORTS (86%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (74%); POP & ROCK (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (68%); MUSIC (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (62%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (61%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (54%); 

PERSON: BARRON, JAMES; POPE (JOHN PAUL II) BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



81 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Fiscal Woes Are Said to Threaten War Crime Tribunals

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: WARSAW, Oct. 3

 BODY:
The work of international tribunals established to prosecute charges of genocide and war crimes in Rwanda and in the Balkans is being seriously impaired by United Nations spending restrictions, the chief prosecutor of the tribunals and Washington's senior human rights officer said today.
In interviews in Warsaw, where they are attending a human rights conference organized by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, Justice Richard Goldstone, the chief prosecutor for both tribunals, and John Shattuck, Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights, discussed their fears about the fate of the tribunals. 
 The tribunals are prevented from spending the money to send investigators into the field, recruit lawyers and other personnel or renew contracts of current personnel as a result of restrictions on United Nations agencies imposed by Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali last month in the face of a fiscal crisis.
If these restrictions continued, they "would shut down the Rwanda tribunal and render unconscious the Yugoslav tribunal," said Mr. Goldstone, a South African jurist.
As a result of the cuts, the Yugoslav tribunal will have to curtail its investigation into reports that Serbian forces killed up to 8,000 men after they seized the United Nations-designated "safe haven" of Srebrenica in July, and another report that Croatian forces committed war crimes when they invaded the Serbian-held region of Croatia in August.
So far, the Yugoslav tribunal has indicted 43 people, including Radovan Karadzic, leader of the Bosnian Serbs, and Gen. Ratko Mladic, their military commander. More indictments are expected next week, said Mr. Goldstone.
"It is unacceptable, if not immoral," for these charges to have been made, and so publicly, if there will be no money for trials at which the accused have an opportunity to defend themselves, he said. He added that it would also be a violation of judicial fairness to take defendants into custody if a lack of resources will deny them a speedy trial.
"The criminal justice system cannot conduct itself if resources are turned on and off," said Mr. Goldstone.
Similar fears about the fate of the tribunals in light of the fiscal crunch were expressed by Mr. Shattuck.
"This is the moment of truth for the tribunals," said Mr. Shattuck. "They must not be stopped by a lack of funding."
Mr. Shattuck said that one reason the Clinton Administration put $3 million into separate funds for each tribunal was to insulate them from the vagaries of United Nations financing. But those funds have also been effectively frozen by the United Nations measures.
At the same time, however, a major reason that the United Nations is facing an economic crunch is because the United States is at least $1.2 billion in arrears in its dues to the organization.
Asked whether the current negotiations among the warring parties in the Balkans might result in some of the accused leaders being spared prosecution in exchange for signing a peace plan, Mr. Shattuck replied, "The war crimes tribunal is non-negotiable."
The first trial, concerning war crimes charges in the Balkans, is scheduled to begin in November, and there are no plans to postpone or cancel it because of the United Nations spending restrictions.
Fears about future financing of the tribunals come at a time when a major legal obstacle to the proceeding has been cleared. On Monday, the appeals chamber of the tribunal, which sits in The Hague, unanimously rejected an appeal from one of the Balkan defendants, thus upholding the tribunal's jurisdiction.
The appeals court described its decision as "an important and historic moment in development of international law," noting that it was the first time since the trials at Nuremberg and Tokyo after World War II that an international appellate court had ruled on the status of international criminal and humanitarian law.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); CROATIA (92%); POLAND (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; RWANDA; RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); CROATIA (92%); POLAND (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE WAR CRIMES (94%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); GENOCIDE (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); 

PERSON: BONNER, RAYMOND HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



82 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate;
Wall Street lands a new retail business, a men's-wear chain called Rochester Big and Tall

BYLINE: By Mervyn Rothstein 

 BODY:
A SAN FRANCISCO-BASED men's-wear chain, Rochester Big and Tall, has signed a 20-year, $7 million lease for 15,000 square feet of retail space on two levels at 67 Wall Street.
The company is taking over a site, at the corner of Pearl Street, previously occupied by the Bank of Nova Scotia. "They could have located anywhere in Manhattan," said Faith H. Consolo, senior managing director of the Garrick-Aug store leasing brokerage, who negotiated the deal along with her associate, Ferne Glanzrock. "They could have chosen Madison Avenue, near Paul Stuart. But they chose Wall Street." 
 Bob Sockolov, chief executive of Rochester Big and Tall, said the financial district was "the logical place for us to be, because we have so many customers in the investment and banking businesses."
The company has 20 stores in major markets, including Chicago, Beverly Hills, Atlanta, Dallas, Boston, Washington and London. It also has another store in Manhattan, at 1301 Avenue of the Americas, at 52d Street.
"We've been successful on Sixth Avenue, and New York is a big enough city for us to have another store in another district," Mr. Sockolov said. "We're going where a lot of customers asked us to be. Not everybody comes up to midtown. We also get a lot of tourists, and a lot of tourists go to see Wall Street."
The deal is a little bit of good news for the Alliance for Downtown New York, the local business improvement district. The alliance, with the help of proposed tax abatements from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's Downtown Revitalization Plan, is hoping to turn the financial district and its surrounding area into a 24-hour village.
Under the plan, the area, which has never fully recovered from the late 1980's economic and real estate slump, would be revitalized by converting underused office buildings into residential space, spurring additional residential development and attracting more retail outlets.
Sixty-seven Wall, a 303,000-square-foot office building, dates to 1920, when it was built for the Munson Steamship Lines. The building's exterior is decorated with classical and nautical ornamental motifs in terra cotta, cast iron, copper and limestone. It is undergoing an exterior renovation to restore it essentially to the way it looked 75 years ago.
The work includes replacing the Spanish tile roof to match the 1920 design and replacing more than 2,000 pieces of damaged decorative terra cotta on the upper floors with precast concrete replicas of the original.
Rochester Big and Tall's customers include Rush Limbaugh, John Goodman, Luciano Pavarotti, George Foreman, Hakeem Olajuwon, Patrick Ewing and many members of the San Francisco 49ers.
 
A French Accent on Park
 For more than three years, the former site of the Banque Nationale de Paris, in the elegant I. M. Pei-designed building at 499 Park Avenue on the southeast corner of 59th Street, sat empty, its 26 windows darkened.
Jayne Sacks Rosenhaus, director of leasing for the landlord, Park Tower Realty, had said the landlord was looking for "an elegant retailer with high-end prices."
One has finally been found -- and it is a tenant that will allow the store to retain its French accent.
Bernardaud, a 132-year-old porcelain house from Limoges, France, is moving its Manhattan store early next year from 783 Madison Avenue, between 66th and 67th Streets, to the 3,200-square-foot site, which has 135 feet of street frontage and the 26 windows on both Park and 59th.
Stuart S. Ellman and Helene Wall of Judson Realty were the agents for Bernardaud, whose porcelains are sold in specialty stores but which has only one other boutique, on the Rue Royale in Paris. The lease is for 15 years. Michel Bernardaud, head of the company, said the main reason for choosing 499 Park was the space, which is three times larger than the current site, "so we can display our products the way we want to."
Then there's the location. "There is a lot of consumer traffic between Bloomingdale's and all the stores that have opened on Madison Avenue around 59th Street," he said.
And there are the windows. "The 26 windows are a bonus," he said. "We're going to have a lot of work to do in terms of display."
 
666 Fifth Leases
 The National Tourist Office of Spain and three textile companies have leased a total of nearly 28,000 square feet of office space at 666 Fifth Avenue, at 52d Street.
The tourist office, relocating from retail space across the street at 665 Fifth Avenue, took 8,000 square feet on the 35th floor. Windsor Textile signed up for 4,000 square feet; 18 International Ltd., for 10,000 square feet, and Cleyn & Tinker Inc., for 5,600 square feet. All three are moving from 1290 Avenue of the Americas. The four leases total about $11 million, said Arthur L. Bocchi, vice president and director of leasing for Sumitomo Realty and Development, owner of the building. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: REAL ESTATE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DXLG (NASDAQ) (90%); BNS (TSX) (83%); BNS (NYSE) (83%); BNP (PAR) (56%); BNP (BIT) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (90%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (90%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (88%); FRANCE (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (88%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (74%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA; ROCHESTER BIG & TALL CLOTHING DESTINATION XL GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA (83%); BNP PARIBAS SA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA; ROCHESTER BIG & TALL CLOTHING

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (88%); FRANCE (74%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (88%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (74%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RENTING AND LEASING COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (69%); MAYORS (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%); TAX LAW (50%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, MERVYN RUDY GIULIANI (56%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



83 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler's Chief Strongly Attacks Kerkorian

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD 

 BODY:
In a strong personal attack, the chairman of the Chrysler Corporation denounced Kirk Kerkorian yesterday as an uninformed troublemaker whose pursuit of profit was harming other stockholders.
The unusually strong criticism by Robert J. Eaton, the chairman and chief executive of the No. 3 auto maker, was the first time that he had formally -- and publicly -- attacked Mr. Kerkorian by name as well as the motives and impact of his long-running attempt to assert greater control over the direction of the company. 
 Mr. Kerkorian's battle with Chrysler was joined last spring when he started a takeover attempt that failed for lack of financing. He has since increased his Chrysler stake to nearly 15 percent of the shares outstanding, and has indicated he may pursue a proxy fight for representation on the board of directors.
In a speech yesterday to a group of institutional investors in New York, Mr. Eaton likened Jerome B. York, Mr. Kerkorian's newly hired chief lieutenant to a hired gun who is harassing Chrysler through the news media by passing false information. Mr. York left as Chrysler's chief financial officer in 1993, jumped to I.B.M. and signed on with Mr. Kerkorian last month.
"We know that Kerkorian has no real knowledge about these issues and no real basis for complaint," Mr. Eaton said. "His objective is personal gain, no matter how it is dressed up or who he has out front."
While he offered no details, Mr. Eaton accused Mr. Kerkorian of trying to "drive a wedge" between him and Robert Lutz, Chrysler's president. And he also implied that Mr. Kerkorian's threat of a proxy fight was merely an effort to create "fractional constituencies" on the board that would represent his interests at the expense of other shareholders.
Mr. Eaton's attacks touched not only Mr. York but also other senior advisers to Mr. Kerkorian, including Lee A. Iacocca, the former Chrysler chairman, and Bruce Wasserstein, the investment banker whose firm has been hired by Mr. Kerkorian's Tracinda Corporation to advise on its investment in Chrysler. He labeled the men the "Kerkorian, Iacocca, York and Wasserstein team."
The focus of his criticism centered on what Mr. Eaton called the Kerkorian camp's "directed attack" against the company, its management and its products, which he said had cost Chrysler investors.
"You cannot trash a company without hurting its shareholders," he said. "We don't know how many car and truck sales we may have lost from this negative campaign already. And the mudslinging has just started."
Mr. Eaton added, "This doesn't generate shareholder value; it destroys it."
In a statement, Mr. York disputed the assertion that the actions of Tracinda had harmed any shareholders. "Our long-term objective is to enhance value for all Chrysler's shareholders -- and our actions to date have helped increase the value of Chrysler's over 380 million shares by billions of dollars."
At times, Mr. Eaton's attack accused his adversary of seeking benefits that Mr. Kerkorian has denied wanting. For example, Mr. Eaton said that Chrysler would not pay Mr. Kerkorian a premium for his stock through so-called greenmail or approve any deals that benefited Mr. Kerkorian at the expense of other investors.
Through his aides, Mr. Kerkorian has said he will never accept either proposal. In the statement yesterday, Mr. York reiterated that position, saying, "Tracinda has repeatedly stated that its shares are not for sale and that we will not accept any benefit that is not equally available to all shareholders."
Mr. Eaton's speech was delivered to the Council of Institutional Investors, a group of pension funds that collectively own more than 25 percent of Chrysler's stock. Their support could well prove to be critical in Chrysler's battle against Mr. Kerkorian.
After Mr. Eaton concluded his presentation, some of the institutional fund managers took to the microphone to pronounce their support for Chrysler and its management team.
Speaking to reporters after his speech, Mr. Eaton was asked why his tone against Mr. Kerkorian had become so hostile. "We have to start speaking out a little bit," he said. "It's hurting the company. It's hurting the shareholders. We have to continue to defend ourselves."
At the heart of the dispute between Chrysler and Mr. Kerkorian is a huge cash kitty that the company has built up in a healthy auto sales market. The cash, which Chrysler hopes to build to $7.5 billion, is intended to help the company continue to invest in new products and equipment and meet its obligations during the next economic downturn.
But Mr. Kerkorian and his aides contend that Chrysler is being "ulta-conservative" in its calculation of how much cash the company would need in a downturn. Instead, the Kerkorian camp has said that the company should turn some of that cash over to shareholders.
"When you live in a monsoon climate like the auto industry, you don't just put a little cash away on the off-chance that someday it might rain," Mr. Eaton said. "It will rain. You plan for it or you drown."
Mr. Eaton added: "Managing a company always involves compromises between the short term and the long term. We are fortunate at Chrysler because the company has never been in a better position to handle both."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert J. Eaton, chairman and chief executive of Chrysler, answering questions after his speech in New York yesterday, in which he assailed Kirk Kerkorian, the auto maker's largest shareholder, for his attempt to gain greater control over the company. "His objective is personal gain, no matter how it is dressed up," Mr. Eaton said of Mr. Kerkorian. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); TRACINDA CORP (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; AUTOMOBILES SHAREHOLDERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); 

PERSON: KERKORIAN, KIRK; EATON, ROBERT J; EICHENWALD, KURT KIRK KERKORIAN (94%); BRUCE WASSERSTEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



84 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Erosion in Japan's Foundation

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: KITAMOTO, Japan

 BODY:
In a land where house rents can reach $25,000 a month, perhaps the biggest surprise is not how expensive real estate is, but how far prices have fallen.
Real estate values in general have plummeted in Japan by two-thirds to three-fourths from their peak five years ago, making sorry tales of the property slump in most of America seem almost sweet by comparison. And the collapse here is threatening the financial system of the world's second-biggest economy after the United States. 
 Fortunes are being lost, companies are going bankrupt, homeowners are suffering from diminishing wealth, and the nation's banks, saddled with at least $500 billion in ailing real estate loans, are reluctant to lend a helping hand. Yet Tokyo is still one of the world's most expensive real estate markets. One Japanese Government study found some residential land in Tokyo still selling for 30 times as much as land in New York.
The story of Japan's boom-to-bust property market is particularly sobering for Japan's nervous Asian neighbors, like Hong Kong, India, Singapore, China, Taiwan and South Korea, where go-go growth has sent property prices spinning out of control. A Japanese Government study shows that the world's seven most expensive cities for commercial land values are in Asia.
Some analysts fear that Japan's real estate woes could decimate the nation's banking industry, sending destructive ripples through the global economy. Just this week, Japanese officials said seven giant housing-loan concerns, together saddled with $63 billion in losses, would be closed.
To be sure, the real estate deflation is good news to some people. It has made housing more affordable for Japanese consumers. And it has created a golden opportunity for American businesses. Previously, astronomical real estate costs ranked with Japanese protectionism as a major impediment to foreign penetration of the Japanese market. With prices falling, it is much easier for American companies, from retailers to auto makers, to expand their presences here.
But for the economy as a whole, the real estate crash has been a disaster. And in one of its most striking manifestations, ghost towns are emerging in commercial and residential districts.
Even in Tokyo, a city where crowds swell so thickly that rush-hour pedestrian traffic moves like molasses and professional pushers pack commuters onto trains, empty office buildings and darkened windows are becoming a common sight. And while would-be homeowners salivate at lower housing prices, they also remain jittery at paying prices that remain exorbitant by the standards of most countries, and that still have plenty of room to tumble.
Yoshikazu Itobashi, a computer engineer, knows plenty about ghost towns. Not only does he live in one, he works in one.
Ten months after Mr. Itobashi paid $330,000 for an apartment in an isolated new housing development in the Tokyo suburb of Kitamoto, the tower is only 20 percent occupied, and his children do not have to fight for the swings in the playground, because they have not materialized.
And Mr. Itobashi's new offices, nearly two hours by train from his home, make New York City's troubled Rockefeller Center look like a money machine. The development, called Tennozu Isle, is led by the Mitsubishi Corporation, the umbrella company for the Mitsubishi Estate Company, which is pulling out of Rockefeller Center.
A few years ago, Tennozu Isle was billed as Japan's biggest commercial community, with parks, shopping malls and office towers near a waterfront. Now, elevators glide past empty floors in some of the 11 office buildings, stores are going out of business and the complex has the feel of an isolated outpost, its workday population linked to the city only by a single, congested monorail.
"I usually can't get a seat on the train from Kitamoto," Mr. Itobashi said. "If the apartment wasn't so nice, I would be in real trouble."
A brief economic rebound last year led by housing activity buoyed hopes briefly before fizzling out. And the continuing fall in property prices has fueled a startling round of deflation for a wide range of goods and services. While lower prices might cheer consumers, they hurt producers, and some financial experts worry that a deflationary spiral could ultimately lead to a shrinking economy.
Without a recovery in the real estate market, which helped power Japan's phenomenal growth in the 1980's, the economy will probably not rebound strongly, analysts say. Although the economy grew modestly in the second quarter of this year, analysts doubt that the rate can be sustained.
"There is no simple answer to all this, and people are looking for simple answers," said David Atkinson, a financial analyst who once followed the real estate industry at Goldman Sachs (Japan) Ltd. "Much of the problems are structural."
The bubble has burst with all the impact of America's savings and loan crisis of the 1980's. Thousands of businesses are saddled with debt on property that is worth a fraction of the purchase price, crimping their ability to borrow and grow. One financial company that purchased a tract of prime land at the peak for about $430 million sold it recently for about $60 million, or one-seventh the original price, according to a real estate executive who insisted on anonymity.
That the transaction went through at all was an encouraging sign, for commercial activity has been scarce, partly because of high property taxes and other regulations. The authorities hoped that historically low interest rates -- the discount rate is now 0.5 percent, compared with 5.25 percent in the United States -- would entice people to borrow and buy real estate, but that has not happened.
Instead, vacancy rates in office space in Tokyo are running at about 10 percent, and property values continue to fall. In the last year, prices for commercial land in Tokyo have declined nearly 20 percent.
A decade ago, no one in Japan could have imagined a property bust of this severity. The Japanese had always believed that investment in land was safe, even in hard times. So, when interest rates slid and credit became easy in the mid-1980's, millions of individuals and thousands of companies raced to buy houses and buildings, driving up land prices to unheard-of heights.
When prices peaked five years ago, the real estate in Tokyo alone was worth three times more on paper than all of the land and buildings in America, according to estimates by the Japan Real Estate Institute. Other comparisons pegged the dollar value of the Imperial Palace, where the Japanese Emperor lives, as greater than the worth of all of California.
In 1989, the Bank of Japan began raising interest rates and tightening credit, which led to the bursting of the speculative bubble. Since then, property magnates and ordinary homeowners have watched in growing horror as their net worth has tanked.
"The decline of prices is going to be a catharsis for a new order," said Osamu Aoi, a director at the Eiwa Real Estate Company. "Real estate properties priced themselves out of the market."
The result is that some new buildings have been boarded up for years because of battles over ownership and mortgage payments, while elsewhere, "work-in-progress" signs adorn idled construction sites. Buildings that used to hum with activity now stand empty, their dark windows retreating into the night.
"Buildings are like human bodies, so that if you stay in bed, your muscles get flabby and won't function as well," said Katsuhiro Tairodate, a manager at the Japan Real Estate Institute. "If the windows are kept shut and there is no air flowing in and out, the place may start rotting and fungus may grow."
Prices remain excruciatingly high. Commercial rents in Tokyo are still three times higher than in New York. And families living in central Tokyo pay an average of 13 times their annual income for a home, compared with about three times household income for their counterparts in New York, according to a Japanese Government study.
Rents are sky-high as well, and with the rise in the value of the yen over the last decade, which has made apartments more expensive in dollar terms, a lavish four-bedroom house can still cost a rich foreigner about $25,000 a month in an expensive area of Tokyo. More typically, though, a one-bedroom apartment in central Tokyo can cost $2,000 to $4,000 a month, down from more than $6,000 at the peak, and a four-bedroom suburban-style home can run $6,000 to $7,000, down from $10,000.
Commercial rents have fallen by more than 40 percent in prime Tokyo locations, and in some cases by 60 percent or more. A 6,000-square-foot office floor can cost $820,000 in annual rent, down from $2.3 million.
To get tenants, some real-estate companies are apparently turning to bare-knuckles tactics. Mitsubishi strong-armed its affiliate companies to move into its Tennozu complex, suggesting it would send business their way, people in the real estate industry said. Mitsubishi declined to comment.
Mr. Itobashi, the commuter between ghost towns, said he felt a bit cheated by his real estate company, which, he said, told him and his new neighbors that the apartments were selling like hotcakes and might be gone if he did not grab one.
"When the economy goes down, real estate companies use these methods," said Masahiro Imaizumi, who runs the Recruit Corporation, which analyzes residential real estate. "We're in a time when there is an oversupply in the market and consumers know that, so they may be pressured into signing contracts. But the shrewd customer can see through these techniques."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The collapse of the real estate market in Japan has left vacant office space throughout Tokyo, including an entire floor in the Tennozu Isle complex, above. Right, examples of how rents for both commercial and residential properties have fallen. (pg. D1); A visitor glancing at the half-filled office directory in the Tennozu Yusen building at Tennozu Isle, a large new commercial complex in Tokyo that has failed to attract many companies as tenants. (Noboru Hashimoto for The New York Times) (pg. D3).
 
Graph: "Tokyo Cost: Still Scraping the Sky" compares total annual occupancy costs (rents, service charges, local taxes) for top quality office space in selected cities around the world. (Source: Jones Lang Wooton International) (pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; TOKYO (JAPAN); JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REAL ESTATE; HOUSING; CREDIT; MORTGAGES; OFFICE BUILDINGS; BANKRUPTCIES REAL ESTATE (93%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); DEFLATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); TRENDS (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); RETAILERS (68%); AUTOMAKERS (50%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL YOSHIKAZU ITOBASHI (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



85 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Rubin Says World Economy Is in a Pause

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3

 BODY:
The Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, said today that the world economy was in "a pause," but forecast stronger global growth next year and reaffirmed the Clinton Administration's commitment to a stronger dollar.
On the eve of the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, Mr. Rubin also said there had been progress toward constructing a new "financial safety net" to prevent future Mexican-style financial disasters. 
 But in a luncheon meeting with reporters, he refused to comment on the outlook for the dollar and other currencies despite today's rally by the dollar. On speculation that the United States and its allies may agree during the World Bank and I.M.F. meetings -- which begin Wednesday -- to act to bolster the value of the American currency, the dollar jumped against the German mark and Japanese yen, closing today in New York at 1.4385 marks and 101.41 yen.
Acknowledging the world economic pause, the Treasury Secretary cited economists' forecast of a return to "solid growth" next year of around 2.4 percent in Europe, North America and Japan combined. "There has been a pause but it's getting better," he said.
Mr. Rubin said it was in all countries' interest to cooperate with the proposed new financial safety net if they wanted to escape the risk of a catastrophic Mexican-style currency outflow and maintain access to capital markets.
This means agreeing to timely disclosure of important financial information to the market and accepting tighter I.M.F. surveillance of their economic policies, he said.
Richer countries with an interest in stable markets, he continued, should subscribe to the proposed $50 billion emergency fund that the I.M.F. will use to bail out emerging economies in difficulties. Mr. Rubin predicted the new fund would be in place sometime next year.
While currency traders are waiting to see whether the United States and its allies make make another call Saturday for a stronger dollar and follow it with central bank intervention in the currency markets, the World Bank is pursuing its campaign to encourage private investment in developing countries.
Since taking over six months ago, James D. Wolfensohn, the World Bank's new chief, has been urging the institution to reduce its penchant for building dams and other mega-projects and become a catalyst for promoting private investment.
As aid diminishes, he sees private investment as the best hope for poorer nations. And he is concerned that while private lending has soared in recent years, it may now be turning down.
So at its annual meeting, which runs for nine days, Mr. Wolfensohn is inviting the thousands of bankers and private business executives who attend to a program of seminars and lectures explaining why it is to their advantage to invest in developing countries
Finance ministers from seven developing countries where the World Bank thinks opportunities are particularly attractive -- Botswana, Kazakhstan, Morocco, Bangldesh, Peru, Moldova and the Philippines -- will also meet with them and explain what they have to offer.
Mr. Wolfensohn is also mending fences with the World Bank's critics. A year ago an angry coalition of environmental activists, convinced the World Bank's development projects did more harm than good, disrupted its 50th birthday celebrations with cries of "50 years is enough."
Mr. Wolfensohn, who recently canceled a $1 billion dam in Nepal, will try to convince these critics that the World Bank is becoming more responsible: there will be three days of discussion at the meetings on making development environmentally sustainable. Vice President Al Gore, a strong environmentalist, will address the conference.
The World Bank is courting investment for poor countries at a time when governments around the world are seizing any excuse to cut development assistance, and when a wave of foreign investment in just a few developing countries is propelling them into the industrial era.
In Washington, Congress appears to be ready to make a big cut in the Clinton Administration's request of $1.3 billion for the International Development Association, the World Bank arm that helps basket-case economies with injections of nearly free money.
After peaking at $61.9 billion in 1991, worldwide official development aid slumped to $54.5 billion last year. Over the same period, private capital flows to the developing world soared to $172.9 billion from $62.9 billion, according to the World Bank's calculations.
But private capital, too, seems set to diminish without new stimulus. The Institute of International Finance, a Washington-based association of more than 190 financial institutions, predicts a $40 billion decline this year, to around $ $130 billion.
These flows remain highly concentrated, with a dozen mainly Asian nations receiving 80 percent of the total and with Africa getting barely 1 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; WORLD BANK WORLD BANK (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; WORLD BANK INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); GERMAN MARK (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); JAPANESE YEN (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWIS, PAUL BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



86 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Plans to Fly Blind on the Economy

 BODY:
The Republicans' budget plans in Congress will severely limit the collection of data vital to tracking what the economy is doing, and will weaken agencies like the Securities and Exchange Commission that enforce rules of economic fair play.
The consequences could be damaging. Capital markets in the United States are the envy of the world because investors, big and small, feel confident that they can buy and sell stocks, bonds and other securities at a fair price. That confidence flows directly from tight supervision over brokers and dealers by the S.E.C. 
 Under its current chairman, Arthur Levitt, oversight has been exercised with a light touch. Mr. Levitt has stripped away needless rules governing how corporations raise money from the public and, where possible, has sought voluntary agreements rather than imposing edicts. Where Mr. Levitt has exercised regulatory powers has been on behalf of small investors, requiring that dealers offer them the best price available in the market. Mr. Levitt's reward for this: The Senate is now debating whether to cut his budget by between 10 and 20 percent.
The Republicans are also going after data collection and information-gathering. The theory seems to be that if the Government does not know what it is doing it will be tempted to meddle less with private industry.
Thus, at a time when the Bureau of Labor Statistics is designing an expensive fix of the Consumer Price Index, which controls the inflation adjustment to Federal spending and tax revenues, the G.O.P. is debating whether to cut its budget by 10 percent. At a time when the Census Bureau is preparing for the next census and designing procedures to correct the undercount of minorities, the Republicans propose whacking millions of dollars out of its budget. At a time when everything Congress does depends on an accurate picture of the economy, the G.O.P. proposes cutting the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
Flying blind, Congress might, as the G.O.P. hopes, meddle less. More likely it will still meddle, only less wisely.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); CENSUS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); BONDS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: ARTHUR LEVITT (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



87 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Moves Higher as Traders Await Meeting of the Group of 7

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar rose against leading currencies yesterday as traders sought to protect themselves ahead of a meeting of industrial powers that could lead to a move to bolster the dollar.
The dollar's rise was helped by comments from a Portuguese central banker. 
 The governor of the Bank of Portugal, Antonio de Sousa, said yesterday that there was a strong chance that concerted intervention on behalf of the dollar could follow this weekend's meeting of finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven nations in Washington.
"People were woken up by that statement and remembered that the usual trading strategy ahead of the G-7 meeting is squaring positions or buying" dollars, said Callum Henderson, a senior analyst at MMS International.
In April, officials of the Group of Seven -- the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada -- announced their support of the dollar and said they would take appropriate actions to defend it. The dollar then had tumbled to its lowest levels since World War II against the Japanese yen and the German mark.
Since then, the Group of Seven nations, and in particular Germany, the United States and Japan, have worked to bolster the dollar by buying the currency.
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar rose to 101.41 Japanese yen from 100.35 yen on Monday. The dollar rose to 1.4385 marks from 1.4277 marks and to 1.1584 Swiss francs from 1.1504 Swiss francs. The British pound fell to $1.5838 from $1.5901.
Trading was thin yesterday, with markets in Germany closed for a national holiday commemorating the nation's unification. With German dealers absent to defend the mark, the German currency lost ground against other European currencies and that also weakened the mark against the dollar.
In other currency trading, the Canadian dollar surged to a 20-month high of 75.34 United States cents after polls indicated that voters in Quebec would reject secession from Canada in an Oct. 30 referendum. Earlier polls had shown voters divided over secession.
In New York trading, the Canadian dollar settled at 75.26 United States cents, up from 74.73 on Monday. The Canadian dollar has risen 2.2 percent in the last two weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); PORTUGAL (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (55%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN BANCO DE PORTUGAL (72%); GROUP OF SEVEN (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN GROUP OF SEVEN (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); PORTUGAL (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (77%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BRITISH POUND (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); REFERENDUMS (61%); WORLD WAR II (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



88 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
The French Ostrich

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
A few weeks ago I attended question hour at the Australian Parliament, a raucous weekly event when the opposition questions the Prime Minister, Paul Keating. Mr. Keating was asked about France's claims that it was entitled to test its nuclear weapons in Polynesia because these colonies were actually part of France. His voice dripping with contempt, Mr. Keating said: "Oh, yes. There are Polynesians all the way down from Aix-en-Provence. They pop out of the woodwork. They are doing Polynesian dances in the back end of the Loire Valley, in the walled city of Carcassone, in the lovely humidity of Aix-en-Provence. There are Polynesians everywhere."
As Mr. Keating was doing this little hula, the Australian lawmakers were falling out of their seats with laughter. They were laughing at France -- and with good reason. President Jacques Chirac's arrogant decision to defy the world and go ahead with two nuclear bomb tests in Polynesia deserves contempt. It is a sign of a country whose leadership is seriously out of touch with the main currents of the post-cold-war world. President Chirac is known as "Le Bulldozer" for the way he plows ahead, undeterred by critics. "L'ostrich" would be more appropriate. 
 It isn't just Greenpeace and a few environmental radicals eating seaweed and wearing sandals who are protesting France's explosions at the Mururoa and Fangataufa atolls. Japan and Sweden each sent ministers to Tahiti to express their opposition, Australia and New Zealand boycotted French products, while 9 out of the 12 members of the European Union spoke out against the tests. What Mr. Chirac has totally missed is that the anti-nuclear movement has gone Main Street. The nuclear debate is no longer between leaders who want to test and environmentalists who don't. Now the debate is between nations that are thinking environmentally and those, like France, that are not.
During the cold war the fear of being obliterated by the Soviet Union overrode the fear of testing nuclear weapgger threat is the bomb itself. The world isn't afraid of Chernomyrdin, the Russian Prime Minister, it's afraid of Chernobyl, the Russian meltdown. The bomb was designed to prevent another Pearl Harbor, but what people are really worried about is another Three Mile Island. As the French writer Dominique Moisi puts it: "Now that the threat against which we need nuclear weapons is no longer clear, all that is clear is the threat of the nuclear weapons themselves -- to the environment and to the human race."
The reason Mr. Chirac doesn't understand this is because he is a Gaullist politician who, like any good Gaullist, has a vision that is dominated by the exalted role it seeks for France on the world stage. Pursuing the grandeur of France is his obsession -- an obsession that is becoming increasingly unsustainable.
Consider the following: France has been a leader in the effort to form a united Europe with a single currency. A united Europe, led by France, appeals to Mr. Chirac because it would enhance France's global stature and help keep Germany under control. But to have a united Europe and a single European currency, France needs to get its budget deficit down from 6 percent of G.D.P. to 2.5 percent, where the Germans have it. The Germans said there can be no common currency without a common fiscal policy.
But when France's Finance Minister, Alain Madelin, tried to cut the budget, slim down France's bloated welfare state (the most bloated in Europe) and reform the Government to make France more competitive for the 21st century, the French public and labor unions howled -- because it meant trimming benefits to workers, businessmen and civil servants. Mr. Madelin got fired. It was the French public saying that nuclear grandeur is fine as long as the Polynesians are the ones who pay, but an exalted role for France in Europe is not fine if we have to pay. (That's why there is never going to be any European monetary union. Forget it. Buy German marks. They're all you'll ever need.)
Mr. Chirac wants grandeur on the cheap, but there's no such thing. And that's why Gaullism is dead. The world won't sacrifice for Mr. Chirac's nuclear ambitions and his people won't sacrifice for his European ambitions. If Mr. Chirac doesn't grasp that soon they won't be laughing at him just in Australia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); AUSTRALIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); FRENCH POLYNESIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SWEDEN (79%); UKRAINE (58%); 

STATE: PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (92%); CENTRE-VAL DE LOIRE, FRANCE (58%); 

COMPANY: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (54%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (54%); GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; MURUROA ATOLL; FRANCE (97%); AUSTRALIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); FRENCH POLYNESIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SWEDEN (79%); UKRAINE (58%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (92%); CENTRE-VAL DE LOIRE, FRANCE (58%); 

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR TESTS; ATOMIC WEAPONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (65%); BOYCOTTS (64%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES) JACQUES CHIRAC (89%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



89 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
 
Federal Farm Credit Bank is selling $45 million of medium-term notes due in 1997 through First Tennessee Bank. The notes, which are callable quarterly beginning Jan. 17, 1996, carry an interest rate of 6.01 percent and are priced at par.

Federal Home Loan Bank is selling $100 million of note due in 1997 through First Tennessee Bank. The notes are callable in six months, carry an interest rate of 6.11 percent and are priced at par. 

Federal National Mortgage Association, known as Fannie Mae is selling $150 million of medium-term notes due in 2005 through Goldman, Sachs & Co. The notes, which are callable in three years, carry an interest rate of 7.09 percent and are priced are par.

Ford Motor Credit Corp., Dearborn, Mich , a unit of the Ford Motor Company, is selling $500 million of notes due in 2000 through Salomon Brothers Inc. The notes are priced at 99.831 to yield 6.415 percent. The issue is rated A1 by Moody's Investors Service, A+ by Standard & Poor's and A+ by Duff & Phelps.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); FORD MOTOR CO (83%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (69%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); FARM CREDIT BANK OF WICHITA (58%); FIRST TENNESSEE BANK NA (58%); FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO LLC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); MICHIGAN, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DEBT NOTES (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CALLABLE SECURITIES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



90 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: You Can't Starve the U.N. Into Reforming Itself

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Reform of the U.N. Is Overdue" (editorial, Sept. 28): You give the impression that all that is required for United Nations reform is decisive measures by the Secretariat, but it is not that simple. Effective reform cannot take place without concerted action by member states, and that is hard to achieve. 
 I was co-author of a comprehensive proposal for the reform of the United Nations Development System in 1969 -- the Capacity Study led by Sir Robert Jackson. By the time governments reviewed and authorized its application, so many compromises had been introduced that the internal logic of the scheme was fatally watered down.
 In 1986-87 I was given the role of coordinating implementation of the reform proposals of the Group of 18, endorsed by the General Assembly. These were less logical, but even so, when we tried to put them into effect, some of the very governments that had urged reform raised objections.
Moreover, even though the reforms in the budget process demanded by the United States were effected, this did not result in prompter payment of United States assessed contributions.
At a Ditchley Foundation conference in March this year, senior representatives of the United States and European countries responsible for United Nations affairs agreed that reform was essential, but in two days of intensive debate were unable to agree on what should be done.
The only way forward is by taking some individual measures that will have a multiplier effect, such as restricting the tenure of all executive heads of United Nations institutions and agencies, including the Secretary General, to one (possibly longer) period; introducing arrangements that will insure their election on a rational and merit basis, rather than through the horse-trading process that prevails at present; and developing a consolidated budget for the United Nations system that would resolve many of the problems of coordination and duplication on which much money is vainly spent.
As to "how," withholding contributions is no way to bring about change. In the present acute financial crisis caused by member states not paying their assessed dues, chief among them the United States, harassed senior United Nations officials who might otherwise concentrate on improved management and reform must instead wrestle every day with the problem of how to meet the bills and juggling funds from one pocket to another.
 
MARGARET ANSTEE
London, Sept. 30, 1995
 
The writer was United Nations Under Secretary General, 1987-93.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WRITERS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUDGETS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: ANSTEE, MARGARET

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



91 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Wine Talk;
Seizing the Moment To Reach for the Vine

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL 

DATELINE: MARGAUX, France

 BODY:
DAVID FINLAYSON stood in the doorway of the immense vat room at Chateau Margaux one day in mid-September looking out at the rain that would fall intermittently over most of the Medoc, the wine area north of the city of Bordeaux, during the two weeks or so it would take to harvest the grapes.
Not a lot of rain to be sure, but enough to turn what might have been a spectacular vintage into one the experts were calling, guardedly, very good but not outstanding. 
 Mr. Finlayson, 23, was getting his first taste of Bordeaux's notoriously uncooperative fall weather. The son and nephew of South African wine makers, he was spending a privileged month at Chateau Margaux, one of the region's most famous properties, on an apprenticeship that began in August.
"I've learned more in a few weeks here than I had in the previous 10 years," Mr. Finlayson said, forgetting that 10 years earlier he was 13.
A few months hence, with the 1995 Margaux safely stored for its two years of barrel aging, Mr. Finlayson will be back at work in his father's winery, Glencarlou, in Stellenbosch, in the South African summer.
"I'm going to California next year," he said. "If I ever make my own wine, something of Margaux will be in it."
While Mr. Finlayson was asked to work in the cellar, some 200 people in Bordeaux, mostly students, got letters from Chateau Margaux on Sept. 15, inviting them to help in the harvest. They would pick grapes under the hot sun -- or in the rain -- for about $8 an hour, plus breakfast, lunch and transportation to and from Bordeaux. For his work, Mr. Finlayson got only room and board.
"If you want to work," the letter said in effect, "show up tomorrow." Few failed to.
"It says something about the economy," said Paul Pontallier, the manager of the chateau. "Or perhaps something about Margaux."
Margaux is one of the five first growths -- the others are Chateaux Haut-Brion, Lafite-Rothschild, Latour and Mouton-Rothschild -- that sit at the very pinnacle of prestige among Bordeaux's more than 3,000 wine producers. Margaux is the only famous chateau to bear the name of the town where it is situated.
Grape picking in the Bordeaux region has become a sought-after job. "Ten years ago, the chateaus were desperate for pickers," Mr. Pontallier said. Now, there is a waiting list of people who want to pick, perhaps because there are fewer jobs: more than 50 percent of all the grapes in Bordeaux are now brought in by mechanical harvester.
Picking at Chateau Margaux began on Sept. 16, a Saturday. Spirits were high. It had been a spectacular summer for grapes in Bordeaux, hot and dry. If the rain held off, it could be a very fine year, even spectacular. Bordeaux was ready for a great vintage; its last great was in 1990.
The decision to pick on the 16th was made on the night of the 13th, and the letters were dispatched on the 14th. But the decision to begin was not lightly made.
"Deciding on the harvest date is a long process," Mr. Pontallier said. "We start at the time of the flowering of the vines, which in 1995 was on June 1. On average, the harvest starts 110 days later. Two weeks before the 110 days are up, we begin sampling the berries. We test for sugar and acid content, but mostly we taste. And when we think the time is ripe, we go."
In fact, the harvest at Chateau Margaux, or a small part of it, begins earlier. Alone among the first-growth chateaus, Margaux makes a rare and expensive white wine called Pavillon Blanc. Its sauvignon blanc grapes mature before the merlot, cabernet sauvignon, cabernet franc and petit verdot that go into the chateau's even more famous red.
Pavillon Blanc grapes are harvested by a team of Margaux employees and people from villages in the Margaux area, many of whom have picked for the chateau for generations. This team also works the red grape harvest, bringing the number of pickers in 1995 to about 170.
After working through Saturday the 16th, the pickers were told to take Sunday off and be back on Monday. Many of the merlot grapes needed to mature a bit more. The pickers, divided into four teams, worked Monday and Tuesday. Then the rains came. No grapes were picked on Wednesday or Thursday, the 20th and 21st, but by then all the merlot had been harvested, most of it in very fine condition.
On Friday and Saturday, the teams were out again, moving into the cabernet sauvignon and cabernet franc plots. After a Sunday off, they worked three days before the rain returned. Friday the 29th dawned warm and sunny, and the good weather held through Oct. 2, when the few remaining plots were picked.
The pickers then left, but the fermentation vats were full and the serious work of making one of the world's most-sought-after wines was beginning.
By law, Margaux may make as much as 5,700 liters of wine, or about 1,500 gallons, from every hectare of grapes. (A hectare is about two and a half acres.) The chateau makes 4,800 liters per hectare on average, and only 3,500 to 4,000 for the best plots. Grapes from the various vineyard plots, from the greatest to the least, are fermented separately. Almost from the time the grapes are picked, Mr. Pontallier and his team have some idea of which vats will go into the first wine, Chateau Margaux, and which into the second wine, Pavillon Rouge. But nothing is certain.
"We taste," he said. "We taste, we taste, we taste."
The new wine will go into 225-gallon barrels in October or early November. When the final selection and blending are done early in 1996, the cut will be severe. As much as 50 percent of each vintage goes into Pavillon Rouge. Under previous owners, only about 15 percent was held out for the second wine.
The 1995 harvest produced 1,600 barrels of wine, which translates to 435,000 bottles, or 40,000 cases. "Because we haven't made our final selection, we don't know how much will go into the first wine, and how much into the second," Mr. Pontallier said, "but it will be around 20,000 cases of each."
In 1977, Andre Mentzelopoulos, a Paris financier born in Greece, bought Chateau Margaux from an old Bordeaux wine family, the Ginestets, for $15 million and began a program of renovation still under way. He died in 1980, and ownership passed to his wife and daughter and then to an Agnelli family trust called the Exor Group. Corinne Mentzelopoulos, Andre's daughter, is on the Exor board and is managing partner of Chateau Margaux.
The Margaux pickers' party, the gerbaude, which celebrates the end of the harvest with food, wine and song, was held on Oct. 3. "The name predates French," Mr. Pontallier said. "It goes back to a time when people were happy that the harvest, which meant their food -- not just wine -- was safely stored for the winter months ahead."
 
TASTINGS
Chateau St.-Georges 1990, St.-Georges-St.-Emilion. About $15.
 
This big property in the satellite appellation of St.-Georges-St.-Emilion would almost certainly be rated as a classified growth if it were in St.-Emilion proper. Classified or not, the wine is immensely popular in France and Belgium, where it is sold mostly by mail order. The chateau itself is one of the glories of the St.-Emilion region and one of the most imposing chateaus in Bordeaux. The wine, usually about 50 percent merlot and 30 percent cabernet sauvignon, is elegant and intense, and in this vintage it displays the structure that should enable it to enjoy a long life. Because of the lesser appellation, St.-Georges is invariably underpriced.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The cooper shop at Chateau Margaux: When the grapes are ready for harvest, the barrels must not be far behind. (pg. C1); When the grapes are judged to be perfectly ripe, aspiring pickers are sent letters telling them to head for the chateau. (Francois Ducasse/Rapho for The New York Times) (pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHATEAU MARGAUX

ORGANIZATION: CHATEAU MARGAUX

GEOGRAPHIC: BORDEAUX (FRANCE); FRANCE; FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES; GRAPES WINE (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); WINERIES (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (74%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (72%); FARM LABOR (72%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J DAVID FINLAYSON (85%); PAUL PONTALLIER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



92 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: '95 PLAYOFFS;
A.L.'s Angry Man May Be Its M.V.P.

BYLINE: By IRA BERKOW 

DATELINE: CLEVELAND

 BODY:
The man in the batter's box in Jacobs Field took a swing at the baseball with an economy of motion and a power of execution that was nearly startling. The ball rocketed over the left-field fence virtually before the outfielder had a chance to blink, let alone take a step. This was Albert Belle, the sometime enfant terrible, whacking his 50th home run of the season, his 17th of September, tying Babe Ruth's record for the month, and his 31st in the last two months, also a major league record.
Albert Belle, at 6 feet 2 inches, 210 pounds, hits the way Joe Louis punched. His short, swift stroke is like a blow that starts at the shoulder and ends by flattening the object of choice. 
 When Belle hit No. 50 on Saturday -- becoming the 12th player in history to do so -- the sellout crowd of 41,578 stood and cheered as he rounded the bases with the solo, game-tying shot, chanting, "M-V-P! M-V-P!" accompanied by a tintinnabulation of cowbells.
His teammates piled out of the dugout to congratulate and pummel him, and not necessarily in that order. The fans, sublimely unconcerned with Belle's reputation for a hot temper and a coldness to the news media, continued their show of appreciation for so long that he was forced to take two curtain calls and Manny Ramirez, the next batter, had to step out of the box several times before the fans got under control.
The Indians went on to win by 3-2, nothing special since they had the best record in baseball, ending the strike-abbreviated 144-game season with 100 victories, 56 games over .500 and 30 games ahead of their nearest Central Division rival, Kansas City.
And while this is a team brimming with talent, Belle, pardon the expression, is the bellwether.
"Anybody who doesn't vote for Albert has his own agenda," said the Indians' manager, Mike Hargrove, when asked about the league's most valuable player candidates. Belle, the Indians' left fielder, and Mo Vaughn, Boston's first baseman, are the two leading candidates for the award -- Frank Thomas is also in contention, but his White Sox, unlike Cleveland and Boston, are not. Belle, meanwhile, has hit more home runs than Vaughn (50-39) has a higher batting average (.317 to .300) and tied him for the league lead in runs batted in with 126.
And the two began competing on the same field last night when the Red Sox met Cleveland here in the first game of their American League playoff series.
Hargrove's comment about those with their "own agenda" was a less-than-veiled reference to the news media, from which voters for the m.v.p. award are drawn.
About his chances, Belle said in a formal interview Saturday, "It will be tough." And then, with a touch of irony, he added, "I'm not really considered a media darling."
Belle, who is 29, is noted for being abrupt and abusive to reporters and others. When he was a star at Louisiana State University he was suspended from the team for temper outbursts. When he was called up to the Indians in 1990, he played only nine games before going into rehabilitation for an alcohol-abuse problem for the rest of the season.
In 1991, he started the season with the Indians, but was sent down to the minors for 16 games because of what the club called an attitude problem, which included an inclination to not run out batted balls. He also was famous for tearing up the dugout, the clubhouse and fixtures such as toilets and sinks when miffed at something or someone, including himself for, say, striking out.
He was suspended by the league four times, twice for charging the mound when hit by a pitch, once for throwing a baseball as hard as he could into the chest of a fan who, he said, was peppering him with racial epithets, and once for having a corked bat, though he contended that someone had "messed" with his bats without his knowledge.
"In the last few years, Albert and I have had a number of soul-searching talks," said John Hart, the Indians' general manager. "And Albert has matured." When asked for an example, Hart noted that Belle hasn't thrown a ball at a fan in several years.
What is unquestioned about Belle is his ability to hit a baseball, and his work ethic in this area. The Indians must be satisfied that they are getting their money's worth from him, which is $4.2 million this year, with an option of $5 million on his services for next season.
Belle always seems to be at the batting cage on the field or at the one under the stands, or watching videotapes of his hitting or of pitchers he will face, or going over the copious notes he takes on the pitchers, and what they threw him.
"I've never seen anyone work so hard on hitting," said Belle's friend and teammate, the All-Star second baseman Carlos Baerga, "except maybe Tony Gwynn. He even hits into a net behind the dugout during innings. I call him 'The Animal' because I tell him he's not human. I said to him, 'You have to take a day off.' He said, 'No, no, I have to keep working. If you want to be a good hitter you have to work hard.' "
Although friends like Baerga and center fielder Kenny Lofton find Belle a good, chatty and humorous companion, he still has his periodic tantrums around the baseball field, which confuses them. "Nobody understands why he gets so mad," Baerga said.
Also confused are most of the pitchers who face Belle, the would-be m.v.p. They have not figured out how to keep his bat under control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CLEVELAND INDIANS; BOSTON RED SOX BOSTON RED SOX (59%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); BOSTON RED SOX (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND INDIANS; BOSTON RED SOX BOSTON RED SOX (59%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (59%); BOSTON RED SOX (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; PLAYOFF GAMES BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (73%); 

PERSON: WILLIS, GEORGE ALBERT BELLE (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



93 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Rockefeller Center Trust Delays Deal with Zell Group
Rockefeller Center Properties, the real estate investment trust that is scheduled to take ownership of Rockefeller Center, delayed its deal with an investor group led by Sam Zell, the Chicago financier, while it considered two other offers made in the last week.
The trust said it would not exercise its option to require the Zell group to buy a 9.7 percent stake for $10 million. The decision signals an effort to mend fences with shareholders and creditors. Market Place. [Page D6.]
 
British Air to Evaluate Alliances
British Airways said it was evaluating its alliances in North America after the announcement by the USAir Group that it was involved in talks with the parent companies of American and United Airlines on a possible takeover. British Airways owns 24.6 percent of USAir and depends on the carrier to feed passengers to its trans-Atlantic routes. Some analysts said British Airways would begin talks with other domestic carriers. [D4.]

Acquittals in Growth Hormone Case
A Minneapolis judge acquitted a Genentech sales manager and three Caremark International employees accused of paying kickbacks to a doctor for prescribing a synthetic human growth hormone. [D6.]
 
Amended Offer for Publisher
The Western Publishing Group said that Richard E. Snyder and Warburg Pincus Ventures had renegotiated their offer to buy nearly a one-third interest in Western. The amended offer appears to be for less money than the deal that was originally announced early last month. [D2.]
 
U.S. Moves on Russian Oil Deals
The Clinton Administration, citing protection of American interests, has sought to counter Russian influence in the Caspian Sea oil region by fighting two projects that are being promoted by Moscow. [D2.]
 
Rubin Predicts Global Growth
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said the world economy was in "a pause," but forecast global growth of about 2.6 percent next year and reaffirmed the Clinton Administration's commitment to a stronger dollar. On the eve of the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, Mr. Rubin also said there had been progress toward constructing a new "financial safety net" to prevent future Mexican-style financial disasters. [D3.]
 
Questions Over Wireless Systems
As the telecommunications industry gathers in Geneva for its quadrennial trade show, two troubled debt offerings have raised questions about the viability of so-called global wireless personal communications. [D4.]
 
A New Kind of Personal Computer
Jean-Louis Gassee, the founder of Be Inc. and the former engineering head of Apple Computer, demonstrated a new personal computer with its own operating system software. [D6.]
 
A Premium for Simpson Case Ads
Media directors and other agency media executives said they were being asked by the broadcast networks to pay $200,000 to $300,000 yesterday for a 30-second daytime commercial placed around the O. J. Simpson verdict. Ads during that time period would regularly cost from $30,000 to $35,000. But some advertisers shied away from placing ads. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D2.]

GRAPHIC: Table: "YESTERDAY"

Dow industrials	4,749.70	-11.56	30-yr. Treasury yield	6.45%	-0.02	The dollar	101.41 yen	+1.06	
 
Chart: "TODAY"
 
Leading Indicators
 August figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.2%
 
Factory Orders
 August figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +2.7%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (55%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SWITZERLAND (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (88%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (91%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (71%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); WARBURG PINCUS LLC (55%); ZELL GROUP ROCKEFELLER CENTER (68%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZELL GROUP ROCKEFELLER CENTER (68%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SWITZERLAND (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); US DOLLAR (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); VERDICTS (72%); ACQUITTAL (72%); PUBLISHING (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); ENGINEERING (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (60%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (82%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



94 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Gain For 3d Day; 30-Year Yield Dips to 6.45%

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices were higher yesterday for the third consecutive session.
But trading was light and largely affected by technical factors, with traders squaring positions and setting strategies ahead of Friday's report on employment in September. The light volume magnified price moves. 
 Prices continued to be supported by recent sluggish economic data, suggesting that the Federal Reserve would have room to cut short-term interest rates once more this year. And the gains yesterday were supported by strength in the dollar in world currency trading.
The price of the 30-year bond rose 8/32, to 105 18/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell to 6.45 percent, from 6.47 percent on Monday.
In bond futures trading, which typically affects prices in the cash market, the December bond contract backed off from an important resistance level of 115 4/32, which was the peak on Monday. At the same time, the cash market hit its high of the session, 105 24/32. The December contract closed at 114 26/32.
Robin Mesch, the chief fixed-income analyst for Thomson Research in Boston, said that even though prices in futures trading did not go higher, sentiment remained bullish.
With the reports on leading economic indicators and August factory orders scheduled today, the Monday peak could again be retested in the futures market, she said.
Traders said a move above 115 would probably generate buy orders. Many buyers would be likely to place stop orders, which can be used to either protect an existing profit or limit the potential loss on securities that have been sold short. Short-selling involves the sale of borrowed securities in the hope that the price will decline and the securities can be bought back at a profit.
"Other than the overall bullish structure of the market, there were no fundamental factors driving the rally today," Ms. Mesch said, "and the move up occurred on thin air. And so that is why the rally ran out of breath up there and maybe ran out of breath for the week.
"The current technical factors would support a pullback in the market at this point, but nothing we think is going to do real damage to the overall bullish structure."
She said the market would be seeking its lows for the week, which she put at about 113 23/32. "The long-term trader should still view these dips as an opportunity to get on board the buy side this quarter," she said.
P. Christopher Leary, senior vice president and portfolio manager for SunAmerica Asset Management, agreed that the underlying tone of the market was strong. "Today, for example, when there was no real data out, no one was willing to short the market," he said. Investors who short the market are betting that prices will fall.
Two pieces of data released yesterday effectively canceled each other out. A weekly report on chain-store sales from the Mitsubishi Bank Ltd. and Schroder Wertheim & Company showed a decline of four-tenths of 1 percent. Analysts said it was another sign that the economy was not growing at a pace fast enough to cause inflation to accelerate, preventing the Federal Reserve from cutting short-term interest rates again.
But another report released later in the day, the Johnson Redbook Service, indicated strength in retailing. The report showed a 1.4 percent rise in retail sales for the week.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 5, 1995, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about Tuesday's trading in the credit markets misstated the high for the December bond futures contract on Monday. It was 114 30/32, not 115 4/32.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT SUNAMERICA ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; ; UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); FUTURES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); CURRENCIES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); INTEREST RATES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (65%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ROBIN MESCH (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995



95 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: THE POPE'S VISIT: NEWARK;
In Fleeting Moments, Pope Vitalizes Streets of Newark

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: NEWARK, Oct. 4

 BODY:
He passed by them first as a vague, white-robed blur behind the darkly tinted rear window of an indistinct black limousine, and later as a cloudy figure beneath the thick, bulletproof shroud over his special Popemobile. Each time, he came and went in a matter of seconds.
But to many of the people who waited long hours here on the sidewalks outside Sacred Heart Cathedral, that fleeting moment of communion with Pope John Paul II was enough. With just a wave and a smile, he gave them the heady, exalted feeling of being at the center of something holy and historic. 
 "I'm totally satisfied," said Lydia Masi, 69, of Newark, who spent more than 10 hours in the intermittent drizzle for her short-lived glimpse of the man she believes speaks for God on earth.
"Bravo Il Papa!" Mrs. Masi had shouted, as loudly as her lungs would let her, when the Pope neared her patch of sidewalk. Afterward, she said, "I got the chills."
In Mrs. Masi and the several thousand other people who gathered here today for the beginning of the Pope's brief American tour, the currents of emotion ran strong and deep. Their revelry and ardor transformed an inner-city neighborhood that is usually somewhat desolate into a crowded open-air arena of song and celebration as pride and jubilation swept through a city more accustomed to insult and injury.
Lisa Mendez, 35, said that usually when she tells people that she is from Newark, "they look at me funny." On this special day, their reaction was kinder. "They say, 'Oh, you're so lucky,' " Ms. Mendez said.
These were people whose paths do not typically cross. Spanning the economic extremes of the Archdiocese of Newark, in which the many pockets of urban poverty mean that roughly 40 percent of the 238 Catholic parishes operate at a deficit, they converged on the cathedral, both from tranquil suburbs an hour's drive away and city blocks within walking distance.
But on this day, in the presence of the Pope, they cut often identical figures: eager, jostling witnesses to a charmed occasion.
The Pope came to the cathedral from Newark International Airport for a 5 P.M. prayer service. The streets outside the majestic French Gothic structure, which crowns Newark's highest hill, were billed as the only place in the New York metropolitan region where people without tickets to specific events could hope to see the Pontiff up close.
Although the overall turnout fell far short of the crowd of 100,000 people for which the authorities had braced, there were still enough people -- 15,000, by one police estimate that seemed generous -- to fill nearly a half-mile stretch of the sidewalk along Clifton Avenue, the main street beside the cathedral.
They laughed, cheered and even wept during the anticipation-filled hours leading to the Pope's arrival. And when his seemingly infinite motorcade suddenly pulled into view shortly after 4:30 P.M., they roared.
When the Pope later circled the cathedral in his Popemobile, Carrie Figueroa, 19, gushed: "Oh, my God, here he comes. He's so cute!"
But the reception accorded the Pope transcended mere celebrity worship. People talked of being profoundly, indescribably moved.
"He really didn't seem real," said Bertha Adams, 43, of Newark. "Other celebrities I've seen seem like ordinary people when you see them. But the Pope was different, like a godsend." Ms. Adams is Baptist, and while it seemed that the majority of the crowd around the cathedral was Catholic, there was a significant minority from different faiths.
No two people brought precisely the same sense of formal ceremony to the occasion. Some dressed up while others dressed down; some toted video cameras and portable televisions while others carried nothing heavier than a simple rosary; some cheered while others bowed their heads silently in prayer.
At one house along Clifton Avenue, Doris Estela tied dozens of yellow and white plastic flowers, one by one, to the black wrought-iron railing on her front porch. She also hung a banner -- "Welcome to Newark, Holy Father" -- that had been colored by her 10-year-old daughter, Angela, who dressed in in beige linen pants and a lacy white blouse for the occasion.
"My mom said no jeans today," Angela said. "She said I should look pretty for the Pope."
Several dozen feet away on the sidewalk, Johann Suarez, 20, of Newark cradled a 2-month-old baby boy whom she had named Johnny Pasqual, in honor of the Pope. Maria Veiga, 36, stood on tired feet that had carried her six miles from an adjacent suburb through crime-ridden areas of the city.
"My husband said I was crazy," Mrs. Veiga said. "I said God was going to protect me."
The first people to line Clifton Avenue were Sylvia Esteves and her aunt, Elisa Nicoletti, who were not taking any chances when it came to getting a good view of the Pope.
With sleeping bags at the ready, they toured the streets around the cathedral at 11 Tuesday night to make sure there were not any overzealous people pitching tents in coveted spots.
Reassured that there were not, Mrs. Esteves, who lives in Newark near the cathedral, and Mrs. Nicoletti nonetheless proceeded to conduct a strategic canvass of the area with a special eye toward where street cleaners looked busiest -- a clue, they decided, to the precise route of the papal motorcade.
The two women fixed on a section of sidewalk kitty-corner from the cathedral entrance, then went back to Mrs. Esteves's house and set their alarm for 3:50 A.M. They got to their chosen ground at 5 A.M.
For these two, the Pope's visit had special personal meaning because the cathedral is a place where their family has marked many important milestones: baptisms and weddings, funerals and first communions.
It took a while for the excitement on the street to build. Up until about 10 A.M., there were fewer than 100 spectators outside the cathedral, and their numbers did not exceed those of the roughly 500 police officers until noon.
Lieut. Henry Gajda of the Newark police said he kept waiting in vain for an overwhelming deluge of people. "We thought we spotted a crowd over on Park Avenue a while ago," Lieutenant Gajda said, referring to a nearby intersection, "but it turned out to be two busloads of senior citizens headed to Atlantic City."
The police presence provided a grave counterpoint to everything else. While people waved to the Pope, police officers in a line between them and the street kept their backs to the Pontiff and their eyes on the crowd.
Those officers did not relax until the Pope left at around 7 P.M. The 1,800 people who had attended the prayer service spilled out of the cathedral with wide eyes and wider smiles.
Sister Clara Marie, who received dispensation to leave her cloister in Newark to attend the service, spoke of shaking the Pope's hand. "It's like holding the hand of your father," she said. "There's a gentleness and fatherly affection."
One priest broke into song. "Fly Me to the Moon," he crooned as he walked off into what for him had clearly become an enchanted evening.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From the window of his Popemobile, the Pope greeted the waiting crowd as he arrived last night at Sacred Heart Cathedral in Newark. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NEWARK (NJ); NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (75%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); AIRPORTS (50%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: POPE (JOHN PAUL II) POPE JOHN PAUL II (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



96 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Selloff in Technology Issues Pulls Stock Market Down
Technology stocks were battered, leading the stock market to its third straight loss, as Wall Street continued to brace for possible disappointments in third-quarter earnings. The Nasdaq composite index, which is heavily weighted with technology stocks, dropped 18.18 points, to 1,002.27. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 9.03 points, to 4,740.67.
Technology stocks dropped after an analyst at Soundview Financial Group downgraded five semiconductor makers for the first time in three years, citing rising supplies of computer chips. [Page D12.]
 
Leading Indicators Up 0.2%
The index of leading economic indicators increased for only the second time this year, rising two-tenths of 1 percent in August, indicating moderate expansion in the months ahead. In a separate Government report, factory orders rose 2.6 percent in August on strong demand for cars and trucks. [D4.]
 
The reports helped Treasury prices extend their rally through a fourth consecutive session as expectations continued for another cut in interest rates. [D19.]
 
The dollar fell against most leading currencies as traders took profits. The dollar fell to 100.94 Japanese yen from 101.42 yen and to 1.4349 German marks from 1.4385 marks. [D10.]
 
Ford Sales Fell 9% in September
Following soft September sales reports from its rivals, Ford said its overall vehicle sales for the month fell 9 percent, more than what analysts had expected. The decline was Ford's first monthly sales drop this year. [D2.]
 
Court Orders Extradition of Leeson
A German court ordered that Nicholas W. Leeson, the trader whose $1.35 billion in losses brought down Barings P.L.C., be extradited to Singapore to face 11 charges of fraud, forgery and breach of trust. [D6.]
 
South American Beef Gaining Favor
After decades of being shut out of the world's largest meat markets because of an epidemic of foot-and-mouth disease, Argentina and Uruguay have contained the disease among their cattle and are expected to begin shipping fresh and frozen beef to the United States and other countries in the next six months. [D6.]
 
New Club Shakes Up Golf Stocks
The willingness of many golfers to pay $300 for the newest innovation in equipment, a long-shot driver called the Burner Bubble, is unexpectedly putting pressure on the stocks of the industry leaders, the Callaway Golf Company and Cobra Golf. But analysts are unsure how to play this fight for dominance of the $1.5 billion premium club market. Market Place. [D12.]
 
Peddling the New AT&T
Richard A. McGinn, the chief executive of AT&T's giant equipment-manufacturing division, met with senior executives from nine telephone companies at the Telecom '95 trade show in Geneva this week to promote his soon-to-be-independent company and found unanimous support for AT&T's breakup. [D4.]
 
Tough Sell for Simpson TV Special
A number of the larger companies that stage pay-per-view television events have been approached about offering a pay-per-view interview with O. J. Simpson, but the companies have reservations about such an event. "It may have some attraction to people who were voyeurs to this circus, but my reaction is that it would be in extremely bad taste," one executive said. [B18.]
 
Putting Whimsy in the Air
Two new airlines are taking their promotional cue from Southwest Airlines, which has had its flight attendants singing to the tune of the Flintstones and other familiar melodies since its inception in 1971. Valujet has adopted a cartoon of a smiling Boeing 747 as its logo, and Western Pacific has four planes painted with TV's "Simpsons." Advertising. [D8.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 4,740.67 down 9.03
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.43% down 0.02
The Dollar -- 100.94 down 0.47
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows earnings for Broderbund for the last four quarters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); T (NYSE) (82%); ELY (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (81%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); URUGUAY (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); AT&T INC (82%); CALLAWAY GOLF CO (81%); BARINGS PLC (66%); NEW CLUB (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW CLUB (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); URUGUAY (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); GOLF (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); BEEF (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); GERMAN MARK (71%); ATHLETES (70%); LITIGATION (69%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (67%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); COUNTERFEITING (63%); FROZEN FOODS (62%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (62%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (61%); INTEREST RATES (52%); 

PERSON: NICHOLAS W LEESON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



97 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Ford Had 9% Sales Decline For September

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 4

 BODY:
Following soft September sales reports from its rivals, the Ford Motor Company said today that its sales for the month fell 9 percent, more than what analysts had expected.
The decline was Ford's first monthly sales drop this year and was worse than results at the Chrysler Corporation and the General Motors Corporation, which reported sales figures on Monday. 
 "The market is a little softer than they expected," said Carnie Colliver, manager of market analysis for Auto Pacific, a consulting firm in Santa Ana, Calif.
Ford and other auto makers have been hurt by a strike by 5,000 members of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters at Ryder System Inc.'s car hauling unit. More than 500,000 cars and trucks have piled up at plants, rail yards and ports around the country during the 28-day strike. Paul Ballew, an economist and sales manager for J. D. Power and Associates in Troy, Mich., estimated that the strike cost American auto makers about 100,000 vehicle sales last month.
Ford has also been hurt by factory changeovers for production of new Taurus and F series trucks.
The company said car sales fell 16.8 percent, to 136,689, while truck sales declined seven-tenths of 1 percent, to 152,743. The decline ends an eight-month string of sales increases, including large sales to its rental fleets. The surge enabled Ford to steal market share from General Motors and Chrysler.
Ford said it was not concerned by the decline. "There's been no fundamental shift in the market climate," Robert L. Rewey, group vice president of marketing and sales, said in a statement.
Industrywide, cars and trucks sold at an annualized pace of 14.82 million in September, below the year-ago pace of 15 million, according to Luckey Consulting Group. In August, the best month so far this year, vehicles sold at an annual rate of 15.7 million.
On Monday, Chrysler reported a 7 percent decline in sales. G.M. eked out an increase of half of 1 percent over September 1994.
Most Japanese auto makers also said sales in the United States were down or little changed last month. The Toyota Motor Corporation said its sales volume was down 7.5 percent, to 77,635 cars and trucks. The Mitsubishi Motors Corporation said sales fell 18.2 percent.
The Nissan Motor Company was the big exception, posting a 21.8 percent increase in sales from September 1994.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Ryder Strike Talks Seen
 CLEVELAND, Oct. 4 (By Bloomberg Business News) -- Ryder Systems Inc. said today that it would resume negotiations on Thursday with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters in an attempt to end a four-week-old strike at its car-hauling company.
Ryder, the nation's largest car hauler, said the strike was costing the company as much as $1 million a day in revenue.
"There is no doubt the strike's had a dramatic impact and played a critical role in getting Ryder back to the negotiating table," a union spokesman, Jeff Cappella, said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "U.S. Vehicle Sales in September" shows U.S. vehicle sales statistics for Sept. 1994 and 1995. (Source: Company reports)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); TYT (LSE) (84%); TM (NYSE) (84%); 7203 (TSE) (84%); R (NYSE) (71%); 7211 (TSE) (63%); 7201 (TSE) (62%); GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (71%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (71%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (67%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; RYDER SYSTEM INC; INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS FORD MOTOR CO (96%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (84%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (84%); RYDER SYSTEM INC (71%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (63%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (62%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; RYDER SYSTEM INC; INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (67%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; STRIKES SALES FIGURES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TRUCK & TRAILER RENTAL & LEASING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); STRIKES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



98 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Vision Tests May Reduce Auto Accidents of Elderly

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 4

 BODY:
Efforts in many states to make it easier to renew driver's licenses may be misguided, according to a study that shows screening programs help reduce fatal crashes among the elderly.
The study's lead researcher, David T. Levy, an economics professor at the University of Baltimore, said, "This study shows that license screening, particularly vision testing, is effective at reducing fatal crashes involving senior drivers." 
 The eight states that did not require vision testing in the study period of 1985 to 1989 had 7 percent more traffic fatalities each year among elderly drivers than the 42 states with mandatory vision screening, the researchers said in a report published today in The Journal of the American Medical Association.
The researchers said that testing motorists' road knowledge also had an effect on the rate of fatal crashes involving elderly motorists. The researchers adjusted their findings to account for the differences in the states that could skew the results, such as how much people drove on average, how fast they drove, the number of people living in urban areas and the availability of hospitals.
In the five years studied, an average of 17,294 drivers older than 70 were involved in fatal crashes each year.
"We estimate that 282 lives would be saved with universal vision testing compared with no states having vision tests," the researchers said. That figure is only for fatal crashes involving senior drivers.
"There might be additional lives saved among younger drivers," Mr. Levy said in an interview, "because some of the younger drivers also have vision problems and are still driving."
With some highly publicized fatal traffic accidents involving elderly drivers, officials have been wrestling with how to get hazardous older drivers off the roads without penalizing able ones.
Although drivers from 16 to 24 are the most likely to have automobile accidents, those older than 65 have the second-highest crash rate per vehicle mile traveled, according to previous studies. Any driving problems of the elderly can be expected to grow as baby boomers age.
"Now there's 13 million drivers age 70 or older," Mr. Levy said. "By the year 2020, it's going to be 30 million."
In 1989, the states that required no vision testing for license renewal were New Jersey, Alabama, Kentucky, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Vermont and West Virginia. Mr. Levy said he did not know whether any states have dropped testing or added it since then.
Alan Hoskin, statistics manager for the National Safety Council, said the study relied on sound methods and reached justifiable conclusions.
"There really is no basis for restricting driving on the basis of age alone," he said, "but it should be on the abilities of the driver."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF BALTIMORE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF BALTIMORE AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; AGED; EYES AND EYESIGHT ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (91%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (90%); EYE TESTING (90%); DRIVERS LICENSES (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (89%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (78%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); AGING (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (68%); BABY BOOMERS (50%); 

PERSON: DAVID T LEVY (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



99 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: AT&T's 3-Way Split Is Playing Well in Europe

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Oct. 4

 BODY:
For Richard A. McGinn, Telecom '95 has been a grand coming-out party.
Mr. McGinn, the chief executive of AT&T's giant equipment-manufacturing division, met with senior executives from nine telephone companies at the big telecommunications trade show here this week to promote his soon-to-be-independent company. 
 The AT&T Corporation announced last month that it would split itself into three separate, publicly traded companies. One of the company's primary goals is to unshackle its equipment division, which has been hampered by its ties to the long-distance division. Mr. McGinn said today that the telephone executives he spoke to were unanimously in favor of AT&T's drastic move.
"The head of one European phone company told me, 'This has changed everything for us and how we look at you,' " Mr. McGinn said. He declined to identify the executive because he said he did not want to risk upsetting him.
Prior to the announcement of the breakup, AT&T's Networks System Group was losing customers because regional Bell operating companies in the United States and state-owned monopolies in Europe were reluctant to buy equipment from the same company that was beginning to compete with them in their home markets.
Now, analysts and potential customers said, AT&T has a fighting chance to win lucrative contracts from both the Baby Bells and European telecommunications giants to supply them with everything from cellular telephones to digital networking equipment.
AT&T introduced a new product today that would enable companies to offer local telephone service without laying miles of copper wire. Combining digital technology with a traditional fixed-wireless network, the company said it had developed an economical way for telephone operators to offer phone service in less-developed markets.
Industry executives said the new product would appeal to telephone companies in Asia and the Middle East, and could help increase AT&T's overseas sales, which are currently 25 percent of the division's total revenue of more than $20 billion.
In Europe, industry executives said, the state-owned telephone monopolies would still be more likely to buy the majority of their gear from home-grown equipment companies like Alcatel Alsthom of France and Siemens of Germany.
But at least one European telephone company said it would cast a kinder eye on AT&T. John J. Goossens, the chief executive of Belgacom, the state telephone company of Belgium, said he had warned AT&T in February that his company would not buy equipment from AT&T because it was trying to compete for customers in Belgium's long-distance market. "That's no longer a problem," he said.
The good news for AT&T is bad news for beleaguered European equipment companies. Alcatel and Siemens have both built lavish booths at the Telecom '95 trade show and are putting up a brave front for its 130,000 visitors. But they are under pressure from their biggest customers -- France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom -- which are themselves facing new competition and want to pay sharply lower prices for equipment.
"We can no longer play the Good Samaritan to local suppliers in the name of the Government," said Mr. Goossens, who was the chief executive of Alcatel's Belgian operations prior to joining Belgacom in February.
Alcatel announced last week that it had lost $240 million in the first half of 1995. The company also said it would take a charge of $2 billion to $2.4 billion to pay for a major restructuring of its operations. Alcatel is expected to disclose further details of its planned overhaul at a news conference here on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Telecom '95 trade show in Geneva, with exhibits from about 1,000 companies. Among those attracting attention is AT&T's equipment-manufacturing division, which expects to benefit by becoming independent. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TELECOM 95 (TRADE SHOW)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); SIN (SWX) (53%); SIE (LSE) (53%); SIE (FRA) (53%); SIE (BIT) (53%); SI (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (92%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (76%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP AT&T INC (95%); SIEMENS AG (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (92%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (76%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (66%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; MCGINN, RICHARD A RICHARD A MCGINN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



100 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Index of Leading Indicators Rose in August

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4

 BODY:
The index of leading economic indicators rose in August, the Commerce Department said today, indicating moderate expansion in the months ahead.
The index, which is intended to project economic growth over the next six months, increased two-tenths of 1 percent in August, in contrast to a decline of the same amount in July. The increase in August was only the second this year. 
 Factory orders for consumer goods led the advance. A separate Government report issued today showed that strong consumer demand for cars and trucks contributed to a gain of 2.6 percent in factory orders during August. Auto manufacturers returned to regular production schedules in the month, after having closed plants during July to retool for the next model season, helping lift orders over all.
Today's economic reports were in line with expectations.
Recent ups and downs in the leading index point to "at best modest expansion in the months ahead," said William Sullivan, an economist at Dean Witter Reynolds in New York.
Eight of the 11 components of the leading index contributed to August's increase. They were factory orders for consumer goods, which rose; weekly jobless claims, which declined to a monthly average of 339,000 in August from 367,000 in July; the money supply, which increased; the average workweek, which grew to 41.5 hours in August from 41.3 hours during July; capital spending, which rose; permits for new home construction, whose number grew; stock prices, which were higher in the month, and unfilled factory orders, viewed as a measure of whether plants can keep up with demand, which fell.
The three other components held the index back. Prices for sensitive materials declined, suggesting that demand for raw materials will slow; the delivery time for goods decreased, also a sign of slower demand, and the University of Michigan's index of consumer sentiment fell to 86.1 in August from 87.4 in July.
The index of coincident indicators, a gauge of current economic activity, increased three-tenths of 1 percent in August after showing no change in July. The index of lagging indicators, including labor market conditions, which generally improve after other parts of the economy have strengthened, rose one-tenth of 1 percent in August after having fallen by the same amount in July.
The separate factory orders report showed that inventories have stopped accumulating at factories, an indication that manufacturers have succeeded in trimming production to keep it in line with demand.
"Manufacturing has ceased to be a drag on the economy, but it hasn't turned into a plus," said Robert Dederick, an economic consultant at the Northern Trust Company in Chicago. "It's still rounding the corner."
Factory shipments, a gauge of current demand, rose 3 percent in August, the report showed, while unfilled factory orders declined two-tenths of 1 percent.
The Commerce Department reported last Friday that the economy grew at an annual rate of 1.3 percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace since the first three months of 1993. Analysts believe the growth rate improved in the third quarter to between 2.5 percent and 3 percent as consumer spending accelerated. Growth in the fourth quarter will probably run at a similar pace, analysts said.
The Government will publish only one more leading index, for September. The Conference Board, a New York business research organization, is taking over compilation of the index in a money-saving move by the Government. No major changes are planned in the report's contents.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Factory Orders" shows manufacturer's total new orders from March 1994 to Aug. 1995. "Leading Indicators" shows index of 11 indicators designed to predict overall ecomonic activity from March 1994 to Aug. 1995. (Source: Commerce Department)
 
Chart: "Leading Indicators: Component Indicators" shows components of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from July to Aug. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NORTHERN TRUST CORP (60%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS ECONOMIC INDICATORS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); PLANT CLOSINGS (76%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); CLOSINGS (74%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); SHIPMENTS (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



101 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2263 words

HEADLINE: Texts of Speeches at the Airport and Sacred Heart Cathedral

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of the addresses by Pope John Paul II at Newark International Airport and at Sacred Heart Cathedral in Newark yesterday, as recorded by The New York Times: 

 
AT THE AIRPORT
 Mr. President, dear friends, dear people of America, it is a great joy for me to return to the United States as I had hoped to do last year. Thank you all for receiving me so warmly. This is a land of much generosity and its people have always been quick to extend their hands in friendship and to offer hospitality. Thank you especially, President Clinton and the First Lady, for coming here today in that same spirit.
For my part I greet you and all the representatives of the Federal, state and local governments. I greet the Bishops' Conference of the United States and the individual bishops who have invited me to their dioceses and have worked so hard, with countless co-workers, to prepare for this visit. I look forward to meeting the Catholic communities of Newark, Brooklyn, New York and Baltimore, as well as our brothers and sisters of other Christian churches and ecclesial communities. To the members of the Jewish faith I extend a very cordial greeting and my respectful best wishes on this day of special significance for them.
I greet all the people of this great nation of every race, color, creed, social condition. I pray for you all and assure you of my profound esteem.
Exactly 30 years ago today my predecessor, Pope Paul VI, spoke to the United Nations General Assembly and delivered a message that still resounds in many hearts: "No more war, war never again!" He went on to appeal: "Peace, it is peace which must guide the destinies of people."
I, too, come as a pilgrim of peace and understanding among peoples. Tomorrow, in observance of the United Nations' 50th anniversary, I shall return there to express my deep conviction that the ideals and intentions which gave origin to that worldwide organization half a century ago are more indispensable than ever in a world searching for purpose.
The world, in fact, is undergoing a profound transformation. Opportunities for justice, reconciliation and development are visible in parts of the world where they were hardly discernible even a few years ago -- almost within our reach, it seems, but still so difficult to grasp. Ancient rivalries and suspicions still compromise the cause of peace. We must find ways to set them aside. If we do not, history and the Lord of History will judge us harshly.
Especially since the events of 1989, the role of the United States in the world has taken on a new prominence. Your widespread influence is at once political, economic, military and, due to your communications media, cultural. It is vital for the human family that in continuing to seek advancement in many different fields -- science, business, education, art and wherever else your creativity leads you -- America keeps compassion, generosity and concern for others at the very heart of its efforts.
In particular, for nations and peoples emerging from a long period of trial, your country stands upon the world scene as a model of a democratic society at the advanced stage of development. Your power of example carries with it heavy responsibilities. Use it well, America! Be an example of justice and civic virtues, freedom fulfilled in goodness, at home and abroad.
From its beginning until now, the United States has been a haven for generation after generation of new arrivals. Men, women and children have streamed here from every corner of the globe, building new lives and forming a society of rich ethnic and racial diversity based on commitment to a shared vision of human dignity and freedom. Of the United States we can truly say, "e pluribus unum."
It is my prayerful hope that America will persevere in its own best traditions of openness and opportunity. It would indeed be sad if the United States were to turn away from that enterprising spirit which has always sought the most practical and responsible ways of continuing to share with others the blessings God has richly bestowed here.
The same spirit of creative generosity will help you to meet the needs of your own poor and disadvantaged. They too have a role to play in building a society truly worthy of the human person -- a society in which none are so poor that they have nothing to give and none are so rich that they have nothing to receive. The poor have needs which are not only material and economic but also involve liberating their potential to work out their own destiny and to provide for the well-being of their families and communities. America will continue to be a land of promise as long as it remains a land of freedom and justice for all.
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen: I come as one who has an abiding hope in America's noble destiny. I thank God for allowing me to return to you again. Thank you and God and God bless you, bless you all. Thank you very much.
Pope is bringing you the rain. Very important event. Thank you very much.
 
AT THE CATHEDRAL
 Dear Archbishop McCarrick and my brother cardinals and bishops, dear brother priests, dear seminarians, men and women religious and lay faithful of the family of God which is the church in Newark:
We are gathered in this cathedral dedicated to the Sacred Heart of Jesus in order to give thanks to the Most Blessed Trinity for the bonds of faith and love which unite us in the One, Holy, Catholic and Apostolic Church.
The presence of the President of the United States at this evening prayer helps us call to mind that it is precisely our service of God which inspires and motivates the healthy pride which we all feel in our native land. This evening, let us thank God for the extraordinary human epic that is the United States of America.
This magnificent building stands in the heart of Newark as a powerful reminder of God's steadfast love for his people and a sign of faith in Christ, our hope of glory. The cathedral made of stone is a symbol of the living church, God's household, which is open to everyone without exception, to men and women of every race and tongue, of every people and nation.
You -- the people of God in Newark and throughout New Jersey -- are the living stones which make up the Body of Christ in the midst of your city and state. Wherever you are -- in your families, neighborhoods, places of work or recreation -- you are called to build up the church in faith, hope and love.
The stirring challenge of the new evangelization -- the aim of which is to proclaim that Jesus Christ is the center of history, the hope of humanity and the joy of every heart -- was faced by the last year's Archdiocesan Synod. I greet with affection all of you who so zealously took part as delegates in that important assembly.
The Synod wisely called for a great mobilization of resources so that all Catholics would receive the solid spiritual and doctrinal formation needed in order to bear convincing witness to their faith and assume their full role in the church's mission. I pray that, as a result of the Synod, the Archdiocese of Newark will become ever more of one heart and one mind -- a community joyously united with its bishops and priests in attentively listening to the word of God, devoutly celebrating the sacraments and generously meeting the needs of others.
With special affection, I greet my brothers in the priesthood and thank each one of you for your dedicated service of the Gospel! The Lord has chosen you to be in the forefront in bringing souls to him. Like Christ, the Head and Shepherd of the church, you must know, tend and offer your life for your flock.
Ordination configures you to Christ the Servant -- to Him who humbly washed His apostles' feet because He came among us not to be served but to serve. Such selfless service is the model of all ministry in the church. As you return to your parishes or to the various apostolates in which you are engaged, I pray that -- in the words of Saint Paul -- God will make you worthy of his call, and fulfill by his power every honest intention and work of faith.
To the seminarians -- and how heartening it is to know that your number is increasing! -- I offer a special word of encouragement. The new evangelization of America calls for a great spiritual maturity on your part. The gift of the priesthood demands that you follow Christ even unto death on a cross.
Without the virtues of self-discipline, diligent contemplation of the truth, simplicity of life and joyful dedication to others, you will not have the inner strength to combat the culture of death which is threatening the modern world. I urge you to pray each day: "O good Jesus, make a priest like unto your own heart." Christ himself is your inheritance. He will never abandon you or disappoint you!
With profound gratitude for your immense contribution to the church's life, I embrace all the men and women religious. Whether your life is hidden with Christ in God in solitude, penance and contemplation, or whether you are actively engaged in the world, the whole ecclesial community looks to you to see what it means to love the Lord with an undivided heart.
The recognition of the genius of woman and of the specifically feminine charisms which women religious bring to the church's life and mission is a providential sign of our times. If in the past these gifts were sometimes insufficiently esteemed or thwarted in their legitimate expression, now is the time for all of us to work together to follow where the Lord leads, in love and fidelity. May the Holy Spirit strengthen your hearts, making them blameless and holy before our God and Father, so that you may serve his people with ever greater joy!
To the whole church in Newark and New Jersey I repeat the words of encouragement found in the First Letter of Peter: "There is cause for rejoicing here . . . because you are achieving faith's goal, your salvation."
Dear friends in Christ, the First Letter of Peter exhorts us to be clothed with humility in our dealings with one another; we read: "Bow humbly under God's mighty hand, so that in due time he may lift you high." This lowliness and humility is explained as abandoning ourselves into the hands of God: "Cast all your cares on him because he cares for you." Yes, God holds humanity in the highest esteem! God reveres everything that is authentically human -- everything that affects individuals and societies, nations and states!
As you well know, I have come to the United States in connection with the 50th anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. That organization exists to serve the common good of the human family, and therefore it is fitting that the Pope speak there as a witness to the hope of the Gospel.
The United Nations is an instrument of dialogue and peace. The criteria of its actions ought always to be the integral well-being of people. The challenge which is permanently before its member states, agencies and personnel is similar to the challenge which confronts every individual: In your relations with one another, clothe yourselves with humility.
In particular, the powerful and the mighty ought to show meekness in their dealings with the weak. The powerful always need to remember that they owe their position to God -- to the One who is stern with the arrogant but who shows kindness to the humble. Nations and governments -- like individuals -- need to acknowledge that the Lord rules the world with justice; with fairness He rules the peoples and guides the nations.
The First Letter of Peter also recalls the need for watchfulness: "Stay sober and alert." Fifty years ago, after the end of the incredible destruction caused by the Second World War, the United Nations organization was established as an international forum of vigilance at the service of peace and justice in the world.
The United Nations has a necessary role to play in preventing and relieving the enormous sufferings which the world's peoples and nations inflict on each other, sufferings which in the 20th century have reached unprecedented proportions in wars and conflicts and in political and ideological oppression caused by the greed and arrogance of those who plot evil in their hearts.
The history of the world in the last 50 years cannot be written without reference to the United Nations. Is it not still needed, to watch and warn and exhort when conflict and injustice threaten the tranquillity of order? Should it not be strengthened as the guarantor of peace, justice and humanitarian concern -- whether in the Balkans, in Africa, or in any place where these values are threatened? Should it not be reformed to insure that it will be guided by an objective assessment of the international situation in order to be a credible forum in which to address issues of fundamental importance for the building of a more human and just world?
Our prayer for peace is therefore also a prayer for the United Nations organization. Saint Francis of Assisi, whose feast we celebrate today, shines forth as a great lover and artisan of peace. Let us invoke his intercession upon the United Nations' work for justice and peace throughout the world.
May the God of all grace, who has called us to everlasting glory in Christ, confirm and strengthen all who work and suffer for the peace and well-being of the human family.
To Him we commend the church in the United States and the local church of Newark and the surrounding dioceses. To Him be honor, glory and praise forever! Amen.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pope John Paul II applauding the audience upon his arrival at Newark International Airport amid a sea of umbrellas the audience used to protect themselves from a light rain yesterday. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NJ); SACRED HEART CATHEDRAL (NEWARK, NJ) RELIGION (94%); AIRPORTS (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (63%); 

PERSON: POPE (JOHN PAUL II) BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



102 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: State and City Sweeten Offer To 2 Commodities Exchanges

BYLINE: By BRETT PULLEY 

 BODY:
The governing boards of the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange and the New York Cotton Exchange are considering a new package of incentives from New York City and the State of New York intended to keep them from leaving Manhattan.
But directors of the two exchanges would not comment on whether the sweetened incentives, worth as much as $80 million -- more than double an earlier incentive package -- would be enough to prevent them from going ahead with plans to move to Jersey City. A spokeswoman for the Coffee Exchange said the offer was under review, but refused to comment further. 
 Since July, when the two exchanges signed a letter of intent to move to the site of Jersey City's old Colgate factory, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki have worked to prevent the exodus. The loss of the exchanges would cost New York 5,000 jobs and split commodities trading activity between Jersey City and lower Manhattan, where other exchanges that trade commodities are.
One of those other exchanges, the New York Mercantile Exchange, cited the large overlap in membership among the exchanges when it proposed in August to merge with the Coffee and Cotton exchanges, in hope of keeping the commodities activity centrally located. The Mercantile, which combined with the Commodity Exchange last year, is staying in New York City and has already received $200 million in tax breaks to move to Battery Park City.
In late August, the city and state offered the Coffee and Cotton exchanges a $36.8 million package of tax and economic development incentives to move to the site of the Mercantile project. But people involved in the talks said it wasn't enough to match Jersey City's incentives.
So on Tuesday, the New York State Urban Development Corporation and the New York City Economic Development Corporation agreed to put up an additional $30 million, or $15 million each, in cash for the exchanges, and $50.5 million in non-cash tax and economic development incentives.
Under the terms of their latest offer, the cash would be provided as long as the Coffee and Cotton exchanges stay in New York, whatever happens with the proposed merger with the Mercantile. The amount of the non-cash incentives would depend on whether the exchanges move to the new Mercantile facility or to another site, or develop a new headquarters at 4 World Trade Center, their current home.
"We're trying to match what Jersey City is offering," said Charles A. Gargano, chairman of New York's Empire State Development Corporation. "These 5,000 jobs are important and downtown is the financial center of Manhattan."
Coffee and Cotton exchange members are expected to meet today with their outside financial advisers to discuss the Jersey City offer, and are scheduled to vote on the Jersey City relocation plan on Monday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: COFFEE, SUGAR AND COCOA EXCHANGE; NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (61%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (91%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COFFEE, SUGAR AND COCOA EXCHANGE; NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (91%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (95%); COMMODITIES TRADING (94%); COTTON MARKETS (91%); COFFEE MARKETS (90%); COFFEE (90%); FIBER MARKETS (90%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MERGERS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); 

PERSON: PULLEY, BRETT RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



103 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Flu Shot Found to Reduce Lost Work Days and Doctor Visits

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY 

 BODY:
A person need not be over 65 or chronically ill to benefit both medically and financially from flu vaccine, according to a new study of healthy, working adults.
The study, conducted last fall and winter among 849 employed men and women from 18 to 64, showed that immunizing such people against influenza reduced the number of upper respiratory illnesses, days lost from work and visits to a doctor, for an estimated net savings of nearly $47 a person. 
 Many employers are already providing free or low-cost flu shots for their workers. The new findings, by a team headed by Dr. Kristin L. Nichol of the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Minneapolis, are expected to prompt even more companies to do it.
Dr. Nichol's report is being published today in The New England Journal of Medicine, just a week or so before the vaccine for the 1995-96 flu season reaches doctors.
In an editorial in the journal, Federal vaccine experts challenged the Minnesota team's conclusions. Citing other studies that had failed to show an economic advantage to immunizing healthy, working adults, Dr. Peter A. Patriarca of the Food and Drug Administration and Dr. Raymond A. Strikas of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention suggested that an unusually high rate of flu in the season under study inflated the benefits observed.
In a more typical season, they predicted, vaccinating healthy working adults would certainly prevent many from becoming ill but might not result in any economic advantage.
Nonetheless, Dr. Patriarca and Dr. Strikas concluded, "When a patient, for whatever reason, wishes to reduce or eliminate the risk of influenza infection, there is no reason to withhold or discourage the use of the vaccine unless the patient has medical contraindications to its use."
The vaccine is 70 percent to 90 percent effective in preventing flu in adults under 65. Conditions that make its use inadvisable are a severe allergy to eggs (the vaccine virus is grown in chick embryos) and the presence of a fever-causing illness.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has generally recommended flu vaccine for people over 65 and those of any age who suffer from chronic illnesses, including cancer and immune-suppressing diseases, because the elderly and chronically ill face an unusually high risk of developing serious or life-threatening complications from the flu.
The vaccine has also been advised for individuals who live or work with high-risk people, residents of nursing homes and chronic care institutions, children and teen-agers on long-term aspirin therapy and, unofficially, for workers who provide essential community services.
The typical charge for a flu shot at a workplace or in a community setting is $10, but charges can range from $20 to $80 when the shot is provided by a private doctor. Medicare, the Federal health care program for the elderly, reimburses doctors who administer flu shots to people covered by the program.
The potential benefits of expanding the use of flu vaccine are great. Dr. Patriarca and Dr. Strikas pointed out that influenza costs American consumers "at least $12 billion annually in direct and indirect expenses" and is associated with 10,000 to 40,000 deaths above the number normally expected and more than 150,000 such hospitalizations each year.
In the new study, half the subjects received a flu shot and the other half received a dummy injection in the fall of 1994. Neither the person administering the shots nor those receiving them knew who got which injection. The participants were then queried by telephone each month about occurrences of upper respiratory illness and visits to a doctor or absence from work because of such an illness.
Dr. Nichol and her colleagues reported that from December to May, those who received the real vaccine had 25 percent fewer episodes of upper respiratory illness, took 43 percent fewer sick days from work and made 44 percent fewer visits to doctors for upper respiratory illnesses.
In trying to explain the benefits, Dr. Nichol said, "Flu predisposes people to developing secondary infections, and the vaccine might prevent both, resulting in a ripple effect of benefits."
The researchers suggested that since their analysis did not include savings associated with a decrease in nonrespiratory illness, hospitalizations or deaths resulting from the flu and its complications, their finding of a $46.85 cost savings per immunized adult might underestimate the potential savings.
"We also did not assess a misery index," Dr. Nichol said in an interview. "Just decreasing the suffering associated with the flu is a significant benefit, even if it were not cost-saving." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; INFLUENZA; VACCINATION AND IMMUNIZATION INFLUENZA (94%); VACCINES (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); CHRONIC DISEASES (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (78%); AGING (77%); CANCER (76%); ALLERGIES (76%); MEDICARE (75%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (74%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (70%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (69%); FOOD ALLERGIES (52%); 

PERSON: BRODY, JANE E KRISTIN L NICHOL (86%); RAYMOND A STRIKAS (65%); PETER A PATRIARCA (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



104 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Macedonia Names Fill-In for Wounded Leader

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: SKOPJE, Macedonia, Oct. 4

 BODY:
The Macedonian Parliament named an interim President today after determining that President Kiro Gligorov, who received serious head injuries in a car-bomb attack on Tuesday, was incapable of performing his functions.
The transfer of power to the Speaker of Parliament, Stojan Andov, was in accordance with the Constitution and for that reason was heralded by Western diplomats and Macedonians, mindful of the region's stormy history. 
 At the same time, they expressed concern about the country's future without Mr. Gligorov, 78, a former Communist official who became President of this former Yugoslav republic in 1991 and led it to independence that year as Yugoslavia began to splinter.
A good friend of Washington and a reliable ally of the West, he has managed to keep the country's volatile ethnic mix from exploding and has prevented the war among former Yugoslavian republics from spreading south. The United States has some 500 troops here as part of the United Nations peacekeeping mission, the only place in the Balkans it has troops.
Internal tensions exist between the Macedonian majority and the one-fifth of the population composed of ethnic Albanians, who are demanding more cultural and political autonomy. Relations with Serbia to the north and Greece to the south have also been strained.
Last month, Mr. Gligorov earned Washington's gratitude by signing an agreement that settled a bitter and destabilizing feud between Greece and Macedonia over the latter's name and flag.
Police officials said they did not know who was responsible for the car bomb that exploded at the side of the road as Mr. Gligorov's armored Mercedes drove toward his office in central Skopje. His driver was killed, several bystanders were wounded and Mr. Gligorov was struck in the head by shrapnel.
Diplomats said today that it was unlikely that Mr. Gligorov, who has serious brain injuries, would ever work again.
A team of American investigators, including agents from the F.B.I. and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, are expected to arrive here on Thursday to help in the investigation of the bombing. Scotland Yard is also planning to send a team.
Though Mr. Andov's Liberal Party has been part of the governing coalition, and diplomats and Macedonian political observers said they did not expect any radical changes, they nevertheless expressed some anxiety.
"I am very worried," said a prominent Macedonian intellectual. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, he said that Mr. Andov lacked Mr. Gligorov's political wisdom, flexibility and popularity.
In the past, Mr. Andov has taken a hard line toward the country's minority Albanians.
The senior American diplomat here, Victor Comras, said that Mr. Andov was "pro-American and pro-Western" and that he was committed to a market economy. Mr. Andov and his party have also campaigned against government corruption, which is pervasive here. But diplomats and some Macedonians here say that in his business dealings, Mr. Andov, who has grown quite wealthy since the collapse of Communism, does not always follow Western standards.
Though no group has taken responsibility for, or been accused of, the attack that nearly killed Mr. Gligorov, a European diplomat described the assassination attempt as "very professional" and said that it was likely that the bombers had been trained outside of Macedonia.
The owner of the car used in the bombing has been identified, the police said, and two men who were seen near the site of the blast have been arrested. No information about their identities or nationalities has been released.
While making it clear he had no hard evidence, one diplomat said he suspected Bulgarian extremists. Though Bulgaria has recognized Macedonia's independence, it has not recognized that Macedonians are a separate ethnic group, asserting that they are really Bulgarians.
Some people speculated that the bombing could have been the work of extreme Macedonian nationalists, angry because President Gligorov agreed to change the country's flag and provisions in the Constitution to settle a feud with Greece. Greece contended the flag and name -- Macedonia -- had been usurped from Greek history, going back to Alexander the Great. It was a contention many Macedonians bitterly disputed, noting that Alexander the Great was a Macedonian.
Suspicion was also directed at extremist Albanians living in western Macedonia. In general, ethnic Albanians, who make up 23 percent of the population, have been campaigning for more cultural autonomy, like the right to their own university, greater economic opportunities and an end to discrimination against them in the police and armed forces. But some Albanians would like to secede.
Whoever was responsible, one diplomat here said, the attack was another reminder that "this is the Balkans." The violence came at a moment when things were beginning to look up for Macedonia, what with the signing of the Greek accord and less bellicose sounds coming from Serbia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); GREECE (92%); ALBANIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MACEDONIA (FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); GREECE (92%); ALBANIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); HEAD INJURIES (89%); ASSASSINATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); BRAIN INJURIES (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); PEACEKEEPING (68%); FIREARMS (66%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); CORRUPTION (62%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: BONNER, RAYMOND; GLIGOROV, KIRO (PRES); ANDOV, STOJAN KIRO GLIGOROV (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



105 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Forecasts a Lag for Japan, Then Recovery

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4

 BODY:
While sharply reducing its growth estimate for Japan this year, the International Monetary Fund today forecast a recovery for the Japanese economy in 1996 that it said would help the United States and six other industrial powers maintain their current rates of growth.
The I.M.F., in its semiannual assessment of the world economy, reduced its growth estimates for all seven of the leading industrial nations. It cut Japan's the sharpest, to one-half of 1 percent, from 1.8 percent in May. 
 But the fund said that the recent fall in the exchange value of the yen, combined with lower interest rates and a new Government spending package, should increase growth to at least 2.2 percent in 1996.
"I think we could be looking at even higher numbers for Japan once the recovery gets going and confidence is restored," the monetary fund's chief economist, Michael Mussa, told a news conference today.
But the I.M.F. warned that Japan must act to resolve the problems of its troubled financial and banking industries if it was to attain a recovery.
In particular, it said that many smaller insolvent financial institutions, particularly in mortgage finance, must be merged or shut down. Japan's 21 major banks as well as its regional banks, though solvent, should start working off bad loans and widen the spreads between what they pay lenders and charge borrowers in order to rebuild their balance sheets.
Worldwide, the I.M.F. forecast economic growth of 3.7 percent to 4.1 percent in 1996, despite the slowing economies of many of the industrial nations. Recoveries in Latin America and Russia, as well as Japan, and high growth rates in Asia, are expected to bolster overall world growth.
For the seven economic powers that make up the Group of Seven industrial nations -- the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada -- the I.M.F. expects aggregate growth of 2.3 percent in 1996, compared with 2.4 percent this year.
The fund reduced its growth forecast for the United States this year to 2.9 percent from 3.2 percent. It predicted a further slowing to 2 percent in 1996.
For the United States to achieve even these rates, the I.M.F. warned against any premature relaxation in monetary policy that could reignite inflation. And it called for a "front loaded" attack on the Federal budget deficit, including the postponement of "the introduction of significant tax cuts until substantial progress toward a balanced budget has been achieved."
The German growth forecast was cut from to 2.6 percent this year from 3.2 percent, but was expected to rise to 2.9 percent next year. The I.M.F. chopped its forecasts for France by to 2.9 percent this year.
Britain is now expected to grow by 2.7 percent this year and 2.9 percent next year; Italy, 3 percent and 2.8 percent, and Canada, 2.2 percent and 2.7 percent.
Also helping sustain global recovery, in the I.M.F.'s view, is an expected upturn in Latin America as it shakes off the effects of the Mexican peso crisis, with overall growth in the Western Hemisphere forecast to more than double, to 4 percent next year from 1.8 percent.
"The worst of the Mexican crisis is past, and we expect significant recovery in the months ahead," Mr. Mussa said.
And a sharp turnaround was forecast for Russia and Central Asia, where the 4.6 percent rate of economic contraction expected this year, would be transformed into economic growth of 2.4 percent in 1996. The I.M.F. revised upward its Asian forecasts, to 8.7 percent this year and to 7.9 percent in 1996.
Some private economists found the I.M.F.'s latest picture of the world economy too optimistic, saying that the agency has underestimated the importance of the slowdown in major economies this year as a result of weakening consumer demand and a depletion in the stocks of unsold goods.
"They are on the optimistic side," said C. Fred Bergsten, a former United States Treasury Under Secretary, who runs the Institute for International Economics in Washington.
"The I.M.F. is basically relying on a big improvement in Japan, Latin America and Russia, and continued growth in Germany to sustain the world," Mr. Bergsten said. "If anything goes wrong in any of those engines, it will have to downgrade its projections again."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Growing Season" shows annual rate of economic growth from 1994 to 1996. (Source: International Monetary Fund)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (90%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); GROUP OF SEVEN BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); GROUP OF SEVEN INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (90%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); JAPANESE YEN (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, CLAUDE

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



106 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Limelight Goes Dark as Crackdown on Drugs Reaches Major Clubs

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES 

 BODY:
For more than a decade, the Limelight has been an enduring fixture on the fickle night life landscape, a place where rockers, ravers and drag queens mingled to techno or whatever the latest musical trend. This week, it has been dark and eerily quiet.
After a drug raid early Saturday, the police padlocked the Chelsea club, one of Manhattan's longest-running dance spots. But today, its lawyers are headed for court in an attempt to reopen it. 
 "We're hopeful that we will be able to reopen very soon," said Alan M. Klinger of Stroock Stroock & Lavan, which represents Peter Gatien, the owner of the Limelight as well as two other trendy nightspots, the Tunnel and Palladium. Mr. Klinger said there had been meetings with city officials in the last several days to reach an agreement before a hearing this afternoon before Justice Fern Fisher-Brandveen of State Supreme Court in Manhattan.
On Friday, undercover officers, some in suits, mixed with the crowd looking for drug sales. By closing time, about 5 A.M. Saturday, as the last patrons drifted out into the morning chill, officers had arrested three people, including an employee, and charged them with selling marijuana. City lawyers then obtained a court order closing the Limelight, where they said drugs were "rampant" and sold in an "open and notorious manner."
The Limelight was the first major nightclub to be shut down under the Police Department's Civil Enforcement Initiative, which began as part of a community policing effort in 1991 and uses department lawyers to close drug dens, problem bars, brothels and other locations under the nuisance abatement section of the city administrative code.
The program was also used to close 122 nuisance locations in 1994 and is expected to be enlisted to close another 150 by the end of the year.
At the Limelight, a cavernous, mazelike club in a deconsecrated church at the Avenue of the Americas and West 20th Street, undercover police officers reported making 17 drug buys involving 23 people on five occasions since early August and seeing cocaine and other drugs being sold, sometimes in full view of employees, sometimes by employees themselves.
Mr. Klinger said Mr. Gatien, who opened the Limelight 13 years ago, has never condoned drug use or been cited for drug violations in any of his clubs. He said Mr. Gatien had believed "effective internal procedures" were in place at the Limelight to deter the use or sale of illegal drugs there.
But, court papers filed by the city said, "Despite the open and notorious sale, possession and use of cocaine and other illegal controlled substances inside the premises, it is apparent that the owner and operators of the subject premises have made no effort to stop or even curtail the rampant illegal drug activity taking place."
Law enforcement officials said the raid on the Limelight was only the beginning of a crackdown.
"This is not the only club where this kind of activity is rampant," said Arlette Hernes, an executive in the office of Robert Silberling, a special narcotics prosecutor. "The investigation into the whole subculture is one that will continue."
Some 20,000 patrons parade each week through the 140-year-old landmark building, once the Episcopalian Church of the Holy Communion. This summer the Limelight and Palladium were the first New York clubs to introduce "foam" parties, in which patrons dance in waist-high foam. Some have said they take LSD, Ecstasy and marijuana to enhance the experience.
Robert F. Messner, managing attorney of the Police Department's civil enforcement initiative, said the strategy is to use civil law to close down a business, exerting economic pressure so the owner changes conditions in order to reopen for business.
"Our goal is not to close the Limelight forever," Mr. Messner said. "It's a feature of New York City and it is a positive thing for a community to have night life. What we want is to change it from a place that has rampant drug use to one that has no active drug life."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LIMELIGHT (NIGHTCLUB) STROOCK & STROOCK & LAVAN LLP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIMELIGHT (NIGHTCLUB)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TRENDS (89%); NUISANCE (86%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); COCAINE (77%); LITIGATION (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); CRIMINAL NUISANCE (71%); CITIES (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); PROSTITUTION (67%); CANNABIS (66%); 

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE PETER GATIEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



107 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Gain for Fourth Day; 30-Year Yield at 6.43%

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices extended their rally through a fourth consecutive session yesterday as reports showing subdued economic growth failed to change expectations of another cut in interest rates.
"We're priced for the Fed to lower rates sometime later this year," said Matthew F. Alexy, chief market strategist at CS First Boston. 
 Market participants, however, remain focused on the September employment report, which will be released tomorrow. And many traders were absent yesterday because of Yom Kippur.
The light volume exaggerated price swings, as the 30-year Treasury bond rose 10/32 , to 10528/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell to 6.43 percent, from 6.45 percent on Tuesday.
The Commerce Department said yesterday that its index of leading economic indicators in August showed an increase of two-tenths of 1 percent, in line with economists' expectations and reversing a decline of two-tenths of 1 percent in July. And a separate Government report showed factory orders climbing 2.6 percent in August, more than offsetting the revised 1 percent decline in the previous month.
Eight of the 11 components in the leading indicators index contributed to August's increase. But analysts noted that the component that measures the change in prices for raw materials declined, holding down the rise in the overall index.
"The movement of the leading indicators component series indicates that the economy is growing, but not fast enough to generate any inflationary pressures," said Ken McCarthy, founder of the Economic Intelligence Company, a New York research and analysis firm.
Still, Anthony Chan, vice president and chief economist at the Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, said the broad gain in the index prompted some hesitation in the bond market, even though the numbers came within expectations. The raw materials component, he noted, is often volatile.
The factory orders report for August encouraged the bulls, Mr. Chan said, because orders for nondurable goods rose only two-tenths of 1 percent, just below expectations. He noted, however, that credit markets failed to surge because the factory-orders report also pointed toward moderate growth in the future. For example, the report showed that the ratio of inventory to shipments narrowed, suggesting "that the manufacturing sector may soon start igniting some of its engines as it moves beyond its inventory overhang problems," Mr. Chan said.
Anthony Dwyer, chief market strategist at Josephthal, Lyon & Ross, said the long bond's recent move to lower yields "supports my belief that the positive fundamental backdrop of low inflation will continue and ultimately bring those yields down to 5.75 to 6 percent level."
Mr. Dwyer said he saw the market staying within its current trading range, with an upward trend in prices, in advance of the September employment report.
In bond futures trading yesterday, the December bond contract closed just off its day's high of 1159/32 , at 1158/32 . Mr. Alexy of CS First Boston said that "most people are looking for the market to sell off ahead of employment number."
"The fact of the matter," he added, "is we go into most of these big numbers either pinned up against resistance levels or pressing support. The market is not given much breathing room, and it is forced to make big bets."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since June 1995. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%); JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (51%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); INFLATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); TRENDS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); FUTURES (75%); SHIPMENTS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); YOM KIPPUR (71%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (63%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ANTHONY CHAN (76%); ANTHONY DWYER (60%); MATTHEW F ALEXY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



108 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Higher New York fares won't help cabbies or improve service.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
THIS is one of those only-in-New York stories that holds wider lessons for all of us. Yellow cab fares in the city have not changed in almost six years. Over the same period, the cost of living has crept up by more than 20 percent. And while hard data on cabbies' incomes do not exist, few apparently take home more than $7 an hour after expenses.
Time for a rate increase, right? It's only a matter of common sense, argues the licensed cab owners trade association, which is gunning for a 27 percent increase. 
 But common sense is not always good economics. If the taxi business is in financial straits, asks Edward Rogoff, a professor of management at Baruch College, why do licenses to operate them trade freely for record amounts -- upward of $170,000? And if adequate numbers of drivers are available at current compensation, is there any reason to believe the proposed fare increase will end up in their pockets rather than in those who control the limited supply of licenses?
"This is the most unjustified rate request in memory," Mr. Rogoff concludes .
New York City has 50,000-plus cars with drivers for hire. However, just 12,000 of them are "medallion" yellow taxis with the legal right to pick up passengers on the street. That's the same number as in 1937. Some taxis are driven by the owners of the medallions. But most taxis most of the time are under lease for a flat fee, about $85 for a 12-hour shift. Owners maintain the vehicles, but drivers pay for gas. To break even, a driver must earn roughly $100 a shift. And to net a mere $7 an hour, his revenues must approach $200.
Figure that the owner of a medallion keeps a taxi leased an average of 50 half-day shifts a month, or roughly 600 shifts a year. Lease revenues thus exceed $50,000 annually or, conservatively, $35,000 after repairs, depreciation, fleet management and inspection costs. It is thus no real shock that medallions trade for the price of a Rolls-Royce.
But why haven't rising ownership costs and growing indirect competition from radio-dispatched livery services and illegal "gypsy" cabs lowered the price?
Two factors continue to work in the medallion owners' favor: strong demand for street-hail taxis in Manhattan, and a seemingly bottomless supply of drivers willing to work long hours in difficult conditions for peanuts.
Christopher Lynn, the new chairman of the Taxi and Limousine Commission, sees the drivers' wretched pay as potential justification for a fare increase. However, since the market for drivers is competitive and medallion owners are not saints, it is hard to see why any portion of the new revenues would go to the drivers.
If nothing changes but the fares, the profits will be reflected in medallion values, much the way changes in property taxes are reflected in land values rather than rent. Moreover, there is widespread agreement that the level of service has deteriorated.
What, then, are the plausible choices for the commission? Mr. Rogoff suggests that the taxi regulators could upgrade the minimal level of service by insisting on better-maintained cars and more competent drivers. Owners would have to pay higher wages to accomplish those goals. But taxi commissioners have been promising such changes for decades. While fare increases have been nominally tied to service improvements, plenty of clunkers still cruise the mean streets. No mayor, it seems, has ever been willing to pay the political price in challenging the power of organized medallion owners.
Another option would be to increase the number of medallion taxis, making it easier to find a cab at rush hour and inducing some cabs to cruise the outer boroughs, where they are rarely found today. Politically unrealistic as it may be in a city where rent control and other gross market restrictions are considered untouchable, Mr. Rogoff suggests "a long-term commitment to getting out of the medallion system entirely." He proposes a gradual increase in the number of medallions that would allow owners who have recently invested in medallions enough time to recoup much of their cost.
Absent that possibility, what's left? Benign neglect. The commission need not reward medallion owners with higher fares. Nor should city officials, hard pressed to provide basic services such as schools and parks, continue to enforce the yellow cabs' monopoly on cruising for passengers.
Such an approach is hardly ideal by anybody's reckoning. Medallion owners would still reap rich rewards from their monopoly until inflation eventually eats away their surplus. Taxi riders would have to endure inferior medallion service, or take their chances in hailing nonlicensed cabs.
But, then, "ideal" has never really been part of the New York City political vocabulary.

GRAPHIC: Drawing
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS; WAGES AND SALARIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COST OF LIVING (77%); LEASING INDUSTRY (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); LICENSES & PERMITS (70%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (64%); FLEET MANAGEMENT (61%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; ROGOFF, EDWARD (PROF) EDWARD ROGOFF (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



109 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Italy Faces Itself

 BODY:
A remarkable criminal trial now under way in Palermo has riveted an Italian public already shaken by a procession of corruption scandals. In the dock is Giulio Andreotti, a seven-time Prime Minister who has been at the center of power in Italy since 1947. Prosecutors charge that Mr. Andreotti was for decades the covert ally and protector of the Sicilian Mafia. Others assert that he may even have connived in political murders.
All charges in the 2,000-page indictment are denied by the 76-year-old Christian Democrat, whose supporters insist he is in fact being framed by the Mafia, in reprisal for his role in promoting mass trials of its thugs a decade ago. Determining the truth may take years of testimony from more than 500 prospective witnesses, among them two former U.S. Ambassadors to Italy, two onetime Foreign Ministers and the past Secretary General of the United Nations. 
 Yet the case involves far more than the reputation of a master politician. What is truly being tried is the entire political order in postwar Italy that Mr. Andreotti personified. As the chief cobbler of successive coalition cabinets, he ranged the political spectrum, working first in the 1950's with the right, then with Socialists and more recently even with the long-despised Communists until the old system (and his party) sank terminally in scandal.
Did Mr. Andreotti also broker a deal with Salvatore Lima, the late Mayor of Palermo, to obtain Mafia votes for Christian Democrats? As some assert, did he kiss the cheeks of a fugitive Mafia boss in Sicily in a telltale gesture of collaboration? Did he acquiesce in the killing of a too-inquisitive journalist in Rome and fail to take actions that might have prevented terrorists from killing Aldo Moro, a political rival?
Some of these accusations may spring from the fevered backwaters of a conspiratorial political culture. It is to the great credit of Italy's judicial system that all charges are to be ventilated in an open courtroom, and apparently broadcast by radio from the same maximum-security bunker in which Palermo's Mafia trials were conducted in the 1980's.
A certain worldly cynicism has long been Mr. Andreotti's political hallmark. "Power is a disease one has no desire to be cured of" is one of his maxims. "See all, tolerate much, correct one thing at a time" is another. He attained the pinnacle in an era when Washington urgently sought to keep the Italian Communist Party, Western Europe's largest, from sharing national power. This gave Mr. Andreotti extra leverage, which he astutely exploited.
So it happened that for most of the postwar years, a single unwieldy party has dominated Italian politics, arguably providing a stable framework for real economic growth. But permanent power also led to corruption, profligacy and credible charges of criminal complicity with the Sicilian underworld. Mr. Andreotti deserves his day in court, but few will mourn the demise of the system that he came to embody.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: ITALY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY; ITALY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ROME, ITALY (58%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CORRUPTION (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WITNESSES (78%); ETHICS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); JOURNALISM (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); TERRORISM (63%); MURDER (58%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%); 

PERSON: ANDREOTTI, GIULIO GIULIO ANDREOTTI (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



110 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Uncool in School: Dress Code Debate

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON 

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Oct. 4

 BODY:
Marc Peyser tries not to be too uncool about the way teen-agers dress. Hey, when he was in high school he was suspended for wearing shorts. He lets his son wear oversized, baggy pants, the kind that make some nervous adults cross the street and others want to grab the waistband and pull up.
"They don't look good, but I've learned to live with them," he said of his son's baggies. "You don't want him to have to look different from his friends." 
 But Mr. Peyser, a member of the Board of Education in this city of corporate headquarters, has had it with baseball caps. Kids have this hat thing, but he and some other school board members have a respect thing, and hats in class, they say, do not show respect. So Stamford has joined a growing debate over school dress codes across the country that asks, in the era of grunge, whose schools are these, anyway?
No hats, no bare midriffs, no see-through clothing, no underwear showing, no vulgar T-shirts, no sunglasses, no beepers, no cellular phones, no oversized jewelry that can be used as weapons: the more or less standard list of prohibitions that Stamford is considering for its high schools is a world away from dress codes in the 60's, when blue jeans were banned and skirts had to reach the knee.
But those who are unhappy about the new dress codes -- including principals and teachers, as well as students and civil-liberties lawyers -- ask whether they are really necessary, or whether they reflect the general unease of adults about the state of education, society and teen-agers.
In Stamford, for example, the proposed dress code is supported by adults like a group of executives who visited one of the two public high schools and later complained to the district superintendent about students dressed more for the street corner than the office.
"If you haven't been part of big groups of teen-agers, it can be very overwhelming to walk into a high school," said Anthony Markosky, the principal of Stamford High School. "And I've got 1,900 teen-agers."
In meetings with school board members, students complained that the board was concerned about image instead of education. The image Stamford wants to avoid, in big high schools where wealthy students from suburban neighborhoods mix with teen-agers from housing projects and immigrants from dozens of countries, is that of the inner city.
"People don't understand what happens when you have a corporate culture," said Robert King, a board member. "It's not enough any more that downtown Stamford looks good. We want everything to look good, and that includes the schools. We know some people put their children in other schools because Stamford schools are supposed to be unsafe." In Stamford High's cafeteria on a recent day, however, almost no one was wearing anything except caps that would violate the proposed dress code. The Board of Education had just backed away from banning hats, leaving it to teachers to allow hats in their classrooms or not, a practice that has been in effect for years.
Most of the dress code, in fact, does not address the dominant fashion, which progresses from casual to grunge to hip-hop: loose-fitting to baggy jeans and pants, covered to the knees by T-shirts, sweatshirts or flannel shirts. One boy, perhaps five feet tall, swaggered in pants so baggy the crotch was at his knees. Another wore a bandanna: forbidden by the new code, forbidden by the old code. For there has always been a dress code.
"We've had one all along but it was never published," Mr. Markosky said as he patrolled the corridors. "If you're conspicuous by your dress, you can be referred to the office.
"I tell the kids, when you get up in the morning and look in the mirror, ask yourself, 'If I'm walking down the hall and Mr. Markosky sees me, what's he going to do?' If you think he's going to send you home, change your clothes."
So far this year, under the old, informal dress code, Mr. Markosky has sent six students home, all girls, for wearing tank tops and revealing shirts. "I've got eight million things I should be dealing with, and dress codes are about 84th on my list," he said. "It's never been a problem."
He stopped to look in on an economics class taught by Joe Carpentieri, who wore a ponytail, a Harley-Davidson T-shirt, denim shorts to his knees and deck shoes without socks.
"He's one of my best teachers," Mr. Markosky said. "Would he be a different teacher in long pants? I'd take a whole school full of people like him."
One problem with setting standards is that the Supreme Court has ruled that students have rights of free expression. Fashion, in most cases, can be regulated only if it disrupts education or poses a safety or health issue. So distractingly short skirts can be banned, earrings ordered off in gym class, gang colors prohibited.
In the last few years, school districts in Connecticut, Virginia, Texas and California have also acted to ban hats and offensive T-shirts, citing a 1986 Supreme Court decision that acknowledges the right of schools to teach citizenship.
"It used to be that you had to show disruption," said Thomas B. Mooney, a Hartford lawyer who represents school boards and teaches a course on law and public education at the University of Connecticut Law School. "Now you have this additional idea that we have the right to create a school environment free of vulgarity."
A problem with setting standards, however, is enforcing them. Outside Fort Worth, teachers in the Birdville School District began the year measuring girls' skirts to enforce a four-inch-above-the-knee rule. Four hundred students were told to change their clothes on opening day, and mothers of tall girls complained that stores did not sell skirts long enough for their daughters to comply.
In Connecticut, one principal encountered an angry mother when he sent her daughter home for wearing an obscene T-shirt, but not for the reason he expected: the girl had stolen her mother's shirt.
Students are quick to seize on these inconsistencies.
"If you say we can't wear something because parents don't like it, well, they're not all your parents," Mike Pietrantuono, a Stamford High School sophomore, said at a meeting of the school board's student liaison committee. "If your parents don't care if you wear a Budweiser T-shirt, that's it."
In fact, the student committee supported nearly all of the proposed dress code, objecting mainly to the hat ban, and pointing out that a ban on wearing outside coats in school would not work because lockers were not secure. The school board, which will vote on the code on Tuesday, has amended it to address their concerns.
Most of the students on the committee, like most of their classmates, were not wearing caps. It was the principle they defended, though one not easily enunciated. The question of why caps are so important usually evokes a blank look.
"Just everyone throws them on," said Brad Tippett, a senior with a Notre Dame cap on backward. "Maybe they don't want to comb their hair."
Mr. Peyser knows the "bad hair day" excuse, as he calls it. But he cannot believe that a majority of the board has accepted it, backing away from what he considers the most important part of the proposed code, the ban on caps. "We had a fine opportunity to create a positive image by doing something not very complicated, and we blew it by caving in to a few people," he said.
Others, however, suggest that what prevailed was common sense.
"It's just another fad," said William C. Newman, a lawyer with the Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts. "It's really a generational problem, because some people see it as a sign of disrespect, when I think many kids would be surprised to be told they were being disrespectful."
"It's part of the youth uniform," he said. "It's not disrespectful. It's not anything. It just is."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joe Carpentieri, making his fashion statement in shorts and ponytail, teaching economics at Stamford High School. (pg. B7); Anthony Markosky, the principal at Stamford High School, observing a student meeting on the dress code. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) (pg. B12)
 
"It's Image and Education in Stamford."
 Under a proposed dress code at Stamford High School, 17-year-old Brad Tippett would be in compliance, with the possible exception of his baseball cap. The code would give teachers the option to ban caps in their classrooms. The fashion debate is a far cry from the 1950's and 60's, when blue jeans were banned and skirts had to reach the knee. Other things illegal under the code: cellular phones, sunglasses, underwear showing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: STAMFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (71%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; APPAREL SCHOOL DRESS CODES (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (75%); CORPORATE CULTURE (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE ANTHONY MARKOSKY (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



111 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Home Desk 

LENGTH: 2106 words

HEADLINE: In Vermont Fashioning Furniture And Lives

BYLINE: By MARIAN BURROS 

DATELINE: THETFORD CENTER Vt.

 BODY:
DOWN dirt roads that go nowhere, past fields of goldenrod and trees brushed with the fiery palette of autumn, the sound of Garrett Hack's wood saw is the only sign that one of Vermont's talented furniture makers is nearby, eking out a living.
There is little about Mr. Hack's operation that he doesn't do himself, from air drying his own wood to building his own workshop. But he's one of a new breed of furniture maker, not a colonial craftsman who learned his skill in his father's workshop. Despite the promises of his Princeton University degrees in civil engineering and architecture, Mr. Hack prefers farming, tending a milk cow, calves, horses, chickens, a big garden -- and his sawdusty business. He and his wife, Hope Haviland, a weaver who just gave birth to their fourth child, also teach their children at their home here in eastern Vermont. 
 "I love working the land," Mr. Hack said. "It's a satisfying counterpoint to working with wood -- the macro versus the micro. It gives me balance in my day."
A state that is home to the laid-back, nature-loving Ben & Jerry's and whose only Representative, Bernard Sanders, is known to all simply as Bernie, is hospitable to those seeking alternative ways of life. These furniture craftsmen -- there seem to be no women -- say that they are more interested in the quality of their lives than in money. It's a good thing, too, since most of them are forced to stitch together livelihoods using other skills in order to stick with their first love -- making furniture.
Vermont's young furniture makers are one example of the current resurgence in American crafts, as well as of the industrialized world's ever-increasing appreciation for the handmade. Unfortunately, the prices for their work seem high, particularly to many consumers whose notions of furniture manufacture are based on instant delivery and factory-direct savings. And despite the satisfaction of the work, the income can be meager.
It took Mr. Hack's parents, who live in Greenwich, Conn., 10 years before they approved of his way of life. Last year, they finally bought a piece of furniture from him. Today his orders are steady enough so he doesn't have to worry. His "effective income," Mr. Hack said, exceeds $30,000, because he provides his own food and heating.
Most craftsmen would be happy with $20,000 to $30,000 a year. And they would like it if their business were steady. Craftsmen find it harder and harder to charge by the hour: prices are generally by the piece. Rick Schneider, whose degree in physics plays an important role in his work, produced a soaring circular wooden staircase for a new house in New York. It cost the owners $46,000, but if it had been priced by the hour, it would have been more than $50,000, he said.
So, this new breed of furniture maker is often forced to moonlight. Robert Chambers, a furniture maker who lives in Corinth, is famous among Windsor chair aficionados for the quality of chair he makes. But he teaches to make ends meet. Others build houses, restore antiques, refinish furniture. One works as a forest ranger; another is a writer. Most grow their own food. Their wives work, some as potters and weavers, others in the business, as finishers or bookkeepers.
There are between 75 and 80 furniture workshops in Vermont with three to four employees, said Kari Berg, a former natural resources marketing specialist with the Vermont Department of Economic Development. Half of them are one-person operations. The larger shops gross between $100,000 and $300,000 a year; one-person shops gross less than $100,000 -- often much less.
Making furniture was not the first career choice for most. Among those wielding planes and sandpaper are a former film editor and a former copy-machine salesman. Mr. Chambers, for instance, has a master's degree in mechanical engineering and worked in the aerospace industry for 11 years. "The idea of making weapons of destruction caught up with me," Mr. Chambers said.
Robert Gasperetti, who lives and works in Danby Village, has three people working for him now making Shaker and Craftsman-inspired furniture. But when he began, it was in a girlfriend's garage, handcutting dovetails with gloves on, warmed by a kerosene heater.
"It's difficult to make a living doing this, and after I had a fire, in 1991, I had to decide whether I wanted to continue the struggle," he said. "But I need the satisfaction of creating things. I could not don a tie and go to work for someone else."
Neither could his furniture-making peers. They greet visitors and customers in cutoff jeans with sandals, boots or running shoes, an occasional gold earring and a fair number of ponytails. Most are in their 40's. A few of the men were born in Vermont, but most have come because they like the social climate.
"This is a place where you can be who you are," said Bruce Pyle, a maker of exquisite Shaker chairs and boxes who lives in Pittsford. "It's a great place to raise children -- it's safe. We know everyone in town. People help each other out when they are in trouble."
Kate Carmel, the senior curator at the American Craft Museum in New York, describes this as a "post-60's community, a kinder, gentler place." "The politics are liberal," she said. "It's the story of the craft world throughout the 20th century -- setting limits on urbanization and mechanization, the elevation of human skill as opposed to mechanized and undifferentiated. Most of the craft people need space. They use the local woods. They love being outside of the pressure of big business. There are many sons and daughters of middle-class professionals."
Ms. Carmel says that in order to sustain a couple, the furniture maker must have two or three people working for him. Some do; some have even more, but many work alone. Solo woodworking is, as Ms. Carmel notes, "a very hard business."
And just what constitutes "handmade" is a matter of opinion. There is no agreement about the point at which it becomes production furniture. Some say the cutoff point comes when a shop has more than five people and produces multiples.
For Mr. Chambers, who works alone, the difference between what he makes and what a production shop with several people turns out is the difference between a hand-knitted sweater and one made in a factory. "The machine-made is perfectly stitched," he said. "The handmade has subtle irregularities that add up to a more interesting unity."
Yet, the individual craftsmen have a grudging admiration for those who are able to make more than one piece of furniture at a time. "People don't understand the price or skill difference between what we do and production pieces," said Chris Bretschneider, who did graduate work in physics and who now works with three other furniture makers in Shoreham. One of Mr. Bretschnei der's associates, Ellen Markel, was the only woman furniture maker in Vermont. Last month, she moved to California.
"I think some of the resentment comes because places that sell the furniture and take a commission take the same percentage whether we make it or it comes out of a production factory," Mr. Bretschnei der said. "But the production people are probably making more money."
What Mr. Pyle resents is the implication that production furniture is handmade. "It's not," he said, citing a shop with nine workers. "The production worker signs his name when it comes off the assembly line. They suggest they are like us. I don't mind their making furniture. I resent the marketing."
Dan Mosheim, who has two employees (one is his wife) works alongside them in his shop in Arlington in order to preserve the integrity of the pieces that bear his name. "So much is lost in the drive to reduce the price," he said.
There is also a certain defensiveness among those who make more than one piece at a time. Matthew Burak, who has a showroom in Danville, took great pains to explain that the power tools used in his shop were made to his specifications and based on the hand tools he had been using. "At first we cut every mortise and tenon by hand," he said. "As we've grown we've copied equipment, high-tech equipment that copies the handwork. I've done what I can to streamline."
For a while his business had a dozen wholesale accounts, but Mr. Burak decided against developing a large production company. "The quality of the furniture would absolutely suffer," he said.
Jack McGuire, who owns McGuire Family furniture in Isle La Motte with his wife and two of his children, doesn't make furniture anymore. "I have gone beyond the point of wood and furniture," he said. "The challenge of the business has taken over."
Linda McGuire said, "it's stupid to spend an hour cutting a mortise by hand with a chisel when you can do it with a router."
"One hour versus three or four minutes," she said. "You are adding cost to the product that doesn't need to be there."
There are certainly other luxuries that individual craftsmen can enjoy that are not available to a production workshop. They can be very selective about the wood they purchase. Mr. Chambers, for example, prefers to work with unseasoned green wood because it produces tighter joints as it dries and expands. Mr. Hack air-dries his because it makes the colors sparkle.
Many of Vermont's furniture makers excel at reproductions, but those who try to step free of the past have a much harder time. No independent-minded design stars have yet emerged -- no Wendell Castles, no George Nakashimas.
Which hardly surprises Ms. Carmel. "The reproductions of Shaker, Craftsman and American 18th-century furniture, in modernized form, is what New England is all about," she said.
"There's room for self-expression within traditional craft," Mr. Pyle said. "Just because I am working in traditional style doesn't mean I'm duplicating what was done before. I've updated it to make it more contemporary, to make it more for the way we live today but still maintain the esthetic that made it appealing." In the end, it's the sheer joy of creation and the promise of the materials that count. "Absolutely iridescent," Mr. Gasperetti said as he ran his hand lovingly over pieces of unfinished curly maple.
"When this is polished up," he said, "it dances. Gosh -- it's surreal."
 
 
 
What They Build and Where
 THE following craftspeople and studios were chosen and visited on the recommendation of people in the design field in Vermont and New York. There are dozens and dozens of others, some surely as talented as the ones listed here. Most of them will accept commissions. They are all happy to have visitors, but it would be a good idea to call before stopping by.
 
BRETSCHNEIDER & ASSOCIATES Box 12, Shoreham, 05770; (802) 897-2621. High-style traditional American and English. Queen Anne end table with (turned) cabriole legs, $865; Connecticut Valley secretary, $17,500.
 
MATTHEW BURAK FURNITURE Box 279, Danville, 05828; (802) 684-2156. Traditional high country. Nantucket side chair, $415; Pennsylvania step-back hutch, $3,975.
 
ROBERT CHAMBERS Corinth, 05039; (802) 439-6232. Windsor chairs; bow-back seven-spindle side chair, $575; six-leg love seat settee, $1,650.
 
SEAN COSTELLO R.R. 1 Box 870, Long Point Road, North Ferrisburgh 05473; (802) 425-3857. Contemporary Santa Fe, Mission, elements of Spanish with Adirondack and Vermont orientation. Side table, $500; Santa Fe style bench, $1,600 to $1,800.
 
ROBERT M. GASPERETTI Mount Tabor Avenue, Box 242, Danby Village 05739; (802) 293-5195. Shaker and Crafstman-inspired. Shaker side table $400; Queen-size sleigh bed $4,500.
 
GARRETT HACK R.F.D. 55 B, Jackson Brook Road, Thetford Center 05075; (802) 785-4329. Contemporary designs based on traditional forms. Child's slat-back chair $250; ladies writing desk, $5,000.
 
DAVID HERZFELD Route 7A, Box 146, Shaftsbury 05262; (802) 375-2369. Painting on Shaker-inspired furniture; wall cabinet, $250; Armoire, $6,000 to $8,000. They start at $2,000.
 
McGUIRE FAMILY Isle La Motte 05463; (802) 928-3118. Reproduction Shaker and Federal-inspired; blanket chest $895; pencil post bed $1,495.
 
DAN MOSHEIM Box 2660, Red Mountain Road, Arlington 05250; (802) 375-2568. Art Deco, Biedermeier inspired; Windsor side-chairs $595; sideboard, $5,000.
 
BRUCE D. PYLE Otter Creek Woodworking, P.O. Box 164, North Main Street, Pittsford 05763; (802) 483-6336. Shaker side chairs $395 to $795 for rockers; Shaker boxes $28 to $90.
 
RICK SCHNEIDER R.D. 2, Box 2630, Bristol 05443; (802) 453-3651. Contemporary library ladder $800; circular stairways, $50,000 and up.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rick Schneider, a woodworker with a physics degree, in Stowe, Vt. Garrett Hack, with his son Matisse, is one of a new breed of furniture maker, a Princeton graduate and a farmer.(Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(Pg. C1); Bruce Pyle, working on an oval Shaker box in his workshop in Pittsford, said Vermont was "a great place to raise children -- it's safe."(Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Tapered chest made by Dan Mosheim of Arlington, Vt. (Cook Nelson); A hunt table and coffee table by Matthew Burak. (Paul Rogers); Robert Chambers with a comb-back chair outside his workshop in Corinth, Vt. (Pg. C6)
 
Map of Vermont. (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT; UNITED STATES (97%); VERMONT, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FURNITURE; LABOR FURNITURE MFG (89%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); MAMMALS (75%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); ENGINEERING (71%); CHILDREN (68%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (54%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERGER, PAUL; BURROS, MARIAN BERNIE SANDERS (57%); RICHARD J SCHNIEDERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



112 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: OPERA REVIEW;
Russian Makes Met Debut In Season's First 'Aida'

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH 

 BODY:
However one may feel about Sonja Frisell's monumental seven-year-old production of Verdi's "Aida" at the Metropolitan Opera, the company's biggest problem with the work of late has been at the center, casting the title role. Indeed, in some seasons, Dolora Zajick has so far outshone her partners that the opera might well have been renamed "Amneris."
Ms. Zajick returned to the production in her usual good form on the second evening of the Met's season on Tuesday. But this time she faced a worthy adversary as Aida, Nina Rautio, a Russian soprano heard in New York four years ago as Tatyana in the Bolshoi Opera production of Tchaikovsky's "Eugene Onegin." 
 Ms. Rautio was preceded by a considerable reputation in the role, and she in no way disappointed, pouring out a rich, lustrous tone. She produced strength and vulnerability in equal measure and in quick succession, pulling back smoothly on the fiendishly difficult top notes in the Nile scene. When her voice caught slightly on one of them, a listener was inclined to blame her partner, Kristjan Johannsson, singing Radames.
Once focused on a note, Mr. Johannsson can fill the house with a bright, clarion call. But focus does not come easily or quickly, and anything below a full shout tends to become woolly.
In his company, it would seem, any singer might force, and Ms. Rautio fell into the trap at moments. Still, her grasp of the role and her ability to project it placed it commandingly at the center of a gaudy production that was inclined to distract.
Two other singers made promising Met debuts: Carlo Colombara, strong except at the bottom of his range as Ramfis, and the economically named Deng, stentorian but a bit stiff as the Messenger.
Ms. Zajick supplied her expected sturdy Amneris, with wonderfully full tone at the bottom, though through the early going much of her work in the low register was lost in the orchestral ruckus stirred up by Christian Badea. Her last act was a superbly calculated tour de force.
The rest of the cast was adequate or better: Stefano Palatchi regal as the King, Timothy Noble properly gruff as Amonasro and Christine Goerke ethereal as a priestess.
But when it came to sheer understated beauty, a rare treasure in this opera, nothing could touch the exquisitely balanced pianissimo work of the male chorus in the second scene of Act I. True, the playing of the woodwind choir in the ensuing dance music came close.
The Met Titles did their work unobtrusively and seemingly without hitch on their second night out. But perhaps a way can be found to make use of their downtime, to instruct listeners in the fine points of audience response. One should not, for example, applaud at the crucial break on an unstable, unresolved chord (a dominant seventh in third inversion, if you must know) before Amneris inaugurates the cry "Ritorna vincitor!" The disruption takes all the starch out of the combative revelry.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nina Rautio in the title role of the Metropolitan Opera's "Aida." (Beatriz Schiller)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AIDA (OPERA)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN OPERA

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN OPERA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: OPERA; REVIEWS OPERA (93%); MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); MUSIC GENRES (73%); MUSIC (73%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: RAUTIO, NINA; VERDI, GIUSEPPE (1813-1901); OESTREICH, JAMES R NINA RAUTIO (72%); DOLORA ZAJICK (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



113 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: Futures Trades Could Explain Daiwa Mystery

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
To futures traders at Lehman Brothers, there was something about Toshihide Iguchi -- they called him "Toshi" -- that just didn't make sense.
At the end of a hectic day, Mr. Iguchi, a bond trader at the New York branch of Daiwa Bank Ltd., would often execute a complex maneuver used mainly by those specialized traders who seek to exploit small mathematical discrepancies in the market. But these moves did not seem to fit with Mr. Iguchi's other trading. Although he certainly made large bets, he was ostensibly a straightforward short-term investor betting on the direction of interest rates. 
 Last week, the motive for the strange trades suddenly became clear, when Daiwa announced that Mr. Iguchi had racked up $1.1 billion in losses over the last 11 years.
"When I saw in the paper what he did, I finally understood what happened," said one trader who had done business with Mr. Iguchi at Lehman.
The effect of those unusual trades, known as basis trades, was actually to help him hide losses in the futures market, say three traders who worked at Lehman in the late 1980's and early 1990's.
This is a new twist. In fact, Mr. Iguchi appears to have covered his tracks so well that in its initial statements, Daiwa and the United States Attorney's office, which has brought fraud charges against Mr. Iguchi, said he had only traded United States Treasury bonds and had done no trading in futures or any other financial instruments known as derivatives.
Derivatives are fast and easy ways to make big bets on financial markets and have been involved in some of the biggest financial disasters of recent years. Indeed, futures contracts were behind the downfall of Britain's Barings P.L.C. when a trader in Singapore lost $1.3 billion trading futures on the Japanese stock market.
What's more, according to these traders, who spoke on condition of anonymity, those complex trading maneuvers by Mr. Iguchi could well explain a central mystery: how he was able to tap into the bank's long-term bond holdings, and its holdings of customers' bonds, to cover his mounting losses.
One key point is that Mr. Iguchi was in charge of both bond trading and some record-keeping. That dual position -- which was specifically criticized as unsound by the Federal Reserve in 1992 and 1993 -- appears to have allowed him to hide even more of his trading tracks. The basis trades apparently permitted Mr. Iguchi to move the futures losses into bond accounts, which he controlled more directly, these traders said.
In its fraud charges against Mr. Iguchi, the United States Attorney's office in Manhattan said he had forged a statement from the Bankers Trust New York Corporation showing $4.5 billion of bonds held in Daiwa's account, when the account contained only $3.4 billion. It is that $1.1 billion gap that is said to represent Mr. Iguchi's trading losses.
But it is still unclear how much of Daiwa's problem came from any futures trading by Mr. Iguchi. While traders at Lehman said he traded both bonds and futures there, traders at other firms remember him mainly for bond trading.
Daiwa, based in Osaka, Japan, has already been harshly sanctioned by Federal and New York State regulators, who have virtually closed down its trading activities in New York.
And it faces further investigation in Japan. Bloomberg Business News reported today that Japanese financial authorities had begun an on-site investigation of Daiwa offices. The Bank of Japan, the country's central bank, began searching Daiwa headquarters in Osaka and the Ministry of Finance its Tokyo branch, Keizo Tsujiyama, manager of corporate communications at Daiwa, was quoted as saying. Bloomberg also said Sumio Abekawa, Daiwa's chairman, had quit as head of the Kansai International Airport Company to focus his energy on the bank's review.
Representatives of Daiwa, Lehman and the United States Attorney's office declined to comment on any futures trades by Daiwa.
The root of Daiwa's problem may lie in Japan's rush to get a financial foothold abroad. In the mid-1980's, at the peak of Japan's financial rise, Japanese banks and brokerage firms were eager to establish themselves among the leading players in New York and London financial markets. Mr. Iguchi was one of a handful of traders who burst on New York's bond market, buying and selling in huge quantities. Even at the time, this appeared to be more bravado than skill; most successful traders are as discreet as possible.
Still, Mr. Iguchi was one of the most active and profitable customers for Lehman's futures desk, Lehman traders said. "It was a hot, hot account and was handled with kid gloves," one trader said.
On the phone, another trader said, Mr. Iguchi was arrogant and abrupt, but no more so than many others on Wall Street, generally not considered the most polite of places. Those who met him, though, described a shy, reticent man with a slight build, who often talked about his personal problems -- like an unpleasant divorce.
What Mr. Iguchi did not talk about, but what appears to have been eating away at him, was a disastrous record as a trader.
In a rambling 30-page letter that Mr. Iguchi sent to the president of Daiwa in late July admitting the losses, he described a tale of woe.
"He must be the worst trader in the world," said someone who has read the letter. "Every time the market moved, he was on the wrong side. He said he saw people making big-time money at other banks and he wanted to trade big as well."
In the letter, filled with guilt and self-criticism, Mr. Iguchi blames his worry about his trading losses for the end of his marriage, said the person who read the letter, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "He said he was ready to confess at least four times, but then he didn't," this person said.
Lehman traders said that they could not tell whether Daiwa was making or losing money over all on its trading, but the that unusual basis trades appeared to be a way to cover up his losses in futures.
"We would say, 'Is Toshi making or losing money?' " one trader recalled. "If he was losing money, he would do a basis trade."
Because of the peculiarities of accounting for basis trades, such a maneuver could make it look as if he had lost no money on futures.
In a basis trade, someone sells futures and receives the actual commodity -- in this case bonds -- on which the futures contract is based (hence the name "basis"). The trade could also work in reverse: trading bonds for futures.
Because they involve a swap of things of theoretically identical value, basis trades do not have to be sent to the brawling floor of the Chicago Board of Trade to be executed at the current market price. Instead, a dealer like Lehman can merely set the price anywhere between the day's high and low.
This flexibility appears to have allowed Lehman -- legally -- to get Mr. Iguchi out of some jams. On days when Mr. Iguchi bought futures that subsequently fell in price, he would call Lehman and do a basis trade, selling futures and receiving bonds. And he would ask that the price be set at the day's high.
That way his futures account would look as if it had broken even or even made a small profit. Of course, these moves did not erase Daiwa's losses; they merely moved the losses from the futures account to the bond account. That is because the cost of creating the appearance of selling futures at a good price was that Mr. Iguchi had to buy bonds at the same inflated price.
And this could have helped Mr. Iguchi avoid having his losses detected. In futures trading, traders must cover losing positions every day with cash margin payments.
In bond accounts, by contrast, cash moves only when bonds are bought and sold. Moreover, Daiwa said Mr. Iguchi had forged not only account statements but also trade confirmations and other records in the bond account that hid his actions.
For a dealer like Lehman, swapping bonds and futures is not improper. This tactic is used, say, to move profits to the following year to delay taxes, or to postpone embarrassing losses.
Traders familiar with Mr. Iguchi's futures activity also suggested that his unusual basis trades could also clear up another mystery: how he was able to tap into the bonds that Daiwa kept at Bankers Trust.
Under normal circumstances, a custodian like Bankers Trust releases such bonds only when it is notified that cash has been received for them. These payments have to be accounted for on the books of the institution, creating various auditable paper trails.
But with basis trades, the custodian transfers the bonds to a futures firm and receives a notice that they were part of an exchange for futures.
Traders who did business with Mr. Iguchi suggest that by using bonds in the custody account to cover losses from futures trading, Mr. Iguchi could well have found an easy way to keep his activity undetected. Other futures-trading experts say that while this is plausible, Mr. Iguchi could have found other ways to tap into the bonds in the custody account.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DAIWA BANK DAIWA BANK LTD (84%); BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); BARINGS PLC (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAIWA BANK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (68%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING FUTURES (94%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); BANK BRANCHES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: IGUCHI, TOSHIHIDE; HANSELL, SAUL TOSHIHIDE IGUCHI (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



114 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Home Desk 

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: Ready for a New Direction

 BODY:
To The Home Section:
Having experienced a similar situation, I wholeheartedly agree with the comments and conclusions in "Lost Jobs, Found Directions" (Sept. 7). In 1992, I was laid off from a financial-management position at age 55 after 23 years with the company. Fortunately, I had expanded my skills beyond that corporate job over those years, teaching part time. 
 After one year of unemployment, I was able to secure a full-time teaching position at Reading Area Community College in Reading, Pa. While this required a change in our family's life style -- i.e., an apartment in Reading for myself during the school year, and approximately half of my former salary -- I would not change my present situation for double my former corporate salary. There is much more to life than trying to impress most corporate bosses.
 
RICHARD M.RISINIT
Rye, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

CITY: READING, PA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: READING AREA COMMUNITY COLLEGE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: READING AREA COMMUNITY COLLEGE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); READING, PA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR WAGES & SALARIES (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1995



115 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: THE POPE'S VISIT: THE OVERVIEW;
Confront Crises, Pope Urges Nations

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

 BODY:
Speaking to the world from the rostrum of the United Nations and to America from the goal line of Giants Stadium, Pope John Paul II yesterday called on the nations -- and the United States in particular -- to live up to their moral responsibilities and confront the crises of faith that cloud this century's last decade.
"It is one of the great paradoxes of our time that man, who began the period we call modernity with a self-confident assertion of his coming of age and autonomy, approaches the end of the 20th century fearful of himself, fearful of what he might be capable of, fearful of the future," the Pope told the United Nations General Assembly. 
 The Pope's first full day in the United States, marked by gray skies and intermittent rain, began with the central purpose of his visit, a speech at the United Nations on the banks of the East River, and ended on the other side of the Hudson, before a wet but jubilant crowd of 83,000 people at Giants Stadium in the New Jersey Meadowlands.
There, the Pope intensified his call to America to preserve its openness to immigrants and its social support of the poor.
On past trips to the United States, he has focused on calls to resist liberalizing trends on abortion and sexual mores. And though he passionately championed the rights of the "unborn child" last night at Giants Stadium, his most striking statements to Americans over the last two days have been warnings against what he perceives as a rising movement to limit immigration, reduce subsidies for the poor and the weak, and retreat to an isolationist position.
"Is present-day America becoming less sensitive, less caring toward the poor, the weak, the stranger, the needy?" the Pope said at the stadium in his most strongly worded challenge of the trip so far. "It must not!
"Today, as before, the United States is called to be a hospitable society, a welcoming culture. If America were to turn in on itself, would this not be the beginning of the end of what constitutes the very essence of the American experience?" [Excerpts, page B10.]
For the first time on this trip, the Pope returned to his condemnation of abortion -- an issue that has been one of the fixed points of his Papacy -- calling on Americans, and Roman Catholics especially, to defend the "unborn child" as they have defended the rights of other defenseless groups in the past. A failure to do so, he said, casts a "moral blight" on society, and marks a break in the American civil rights tradition.
The rain did little to dampen the pageantry at the Mass at Giants Stadium, where the Pope, riding in his bulletproof Popemobile, made a slow tour of the crowd before returning in a triumphal procession to take his place at the red-carpeted altar, decorated with banks of yellow chrysanthemums.
On the field level, soaked spectators leaned over fences, and from the upper decks, there were cheers of "John Paul II, We Love You." Some spectators performed the wave, a cheer common at athletic events.
The service was itself a celebration of America's ethnic diversity, with choirs singing in Spanish, English and Polish, and the Pope himself switching at one point from English into Spanish.
The theme of the Pope's homily was the inclusion of those he said are sometimes shunned by society, and it was reflected at the Mass. The Most Rev. Theodore E. McCarrick, the Archbishop of Newark, said, "We are an immigrant church and still receive newcomers from all over the world."
The Mass was the last event of the day in a papal schedule that began at 9 A.M. with a four-hour visit to the United Nations. He met with Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, with the United Nations General Assembly president, Diego Freitas do Amiral, gave two speeches, including one to the staff of the United Nations, and listened to a multinational choir of young children as they sang, "Let There Be Peace on Earth."
Throughout the day, the Pope's travels brought pockets of gridlock to various parts of New York City as the police closed streets to allow his motorcade pass. The Pope had been scheduled to take a helicopter from Manhattan to Giants Stadium, but the rain and low cloud cover forced him to travel through midtown and the Lincoln Tunnel during the evening rush to reach New Jersey, backing up traffic for 20 minutes or more.
After the Mass, he returned to Manhattan through the tunnel.
At the stadium in New Jersey, security appeared to be tight, though somewhat inconsistent. People sitting on the field and in the lower tier seats had to pass through metal detectors and be subjected to hand-held scanners and drug-sniffing dogs. Those destined for the upper level seats, however, faced less scrutiny.
The high point of his visit, timed for the eve of the United Nations' 50th anniversary celebration, was his address to the General Assembly, his second in 16 years and the third by a leader of the Roman Catholic Church.
The Pope stressed that he came not as the leader of a temporal power "nor as a religious leader seeking special privileges for his community," apparently in response to critics who have questioned his ceremonious reception by a s;ecular organization.
The Pontiff's speech was largely an appeal to the organization to live up to its own potential, to "rise more and more above the cold status of an administrative institution, and to become a moral center where all the nations of the world feel at home."
The Pope presented the United Nations with the new challenge, calling on it not only to defend universal human rights but also what he called the "rights of nations."
He defined these as the rights of national or ethnic groups to defend their culture, language and traditions, not necessarily as separate sovereign states but as part of an identity which should be held to be inviolable.
"A study of these rights is not easy, if we consider the difficulty of defining the very concept of 'nation,' which cannot be identified a priori and necessarily with the state," he said.
But in protecting these rights, the Pope argued, the international community -- through the United Nations -- might succeed in stemming the tide of nationalism and tribalism that has recently erupted into war in the Balkans and Central Africa.
"A presupposition of a nation's rights is certainly its right to exist: therefore no one -- neither a state nor another nation nor an international organization -- is ever justified in asserting that an individual nation is not worthy of existence," the Pope said.
Autonomy for ethnic groups, whether political or cultural, has been a central issue for much of Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union in the period since the collapse of Communism. Pope John Paul, a native Pole, has followed the rise of nationalism in the region closely, particularly after it exploded into war in the former Yugoslavia.
"Unhappily, the world has yet to learn now to live with diversity," he said
Despite the globalization of the world economy and culture, the Pope said there had been a "powerful re-emergence of certain ethnic and cultural consciousness, as it were, an explosive need for identity and survival, a sort of counterweight to the tendency toward uniformity."
"This is a phenomenon," he said, "which must not be underestimated or regarded as a simple leftover of the past."
Only by recognizing and even protecting ethnic diversity can harmony be found among nations, he said. And the United Nations, he added, could serve as the model "family of nations," with rich, strong countries looking after the interests of weaker, more vulnerable ones.
The twin theme of diversity and unity seemed to blend together yesterday as the Pope switched from the halls of the United Nations to the mix of cultures and languages on display at Giants Stadium. For many people there, the near-deafening cheers that greeted him reflected the hope that he would leave unity in his wake.
"He came at the right time," said Jennie Koziol of Beach Haven, N.J.
"There is so much division. He brought all of the people together."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wind blew up the Pope's cape as he took the stage to celebrate Mass for 83,000 wet people at Giants Stadium. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)(pg. A1); At the United Nations, Pope John Paul II was greeted yesterday by John Cardinal O'Connor, top. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); Center, he thanked one of the fifth graders from the United Nations International School who welcomed him with a song of peace (Marilyn K. Yee/The New York Times); below, he spoke to a gathering of women before delivering his address to the General Assembly. (Reuters)(pg. B8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); RELIGION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (87%); ABORTION (86%); REFUGEES (78%); TRENDS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); 

PERSON: POPE (JOHN PAUL II); BOHLEN, CELESTINE POPE JOHN PAUL II (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



116 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: THE POPE'S VISIT: THE REIDYS;
For Some Students, Internalized Excitement

SERIES: One Catholic Family: A Day in School

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE 

 BODY:
The traffic was already snarled and the police were out in force when Owen Reidy walked into Regis High School on the Upper East Side yesterday morning. But Owen was thinking about his Latin test, his math test and his economics test and not the hoopla surrounding the arrival of Pope John Paul II at the United Nations.
"Maybe someone will pray that I get a good grade on my Latin test," he muttered, as he shuffled into school early for the 8:50 examination. The 14-year-old freshman, who travels to school by express bus from the Riverdale section of the Bronx, has a hard time waking up in the morning, and this rainy day was no exception. He was looking forward to the long weekend ahead. 
 The Pope's visit means a shortened school week for Owen, his Regis classmates and students at many other Catholic schools. They have today off to prepare for an early start tomorrow morning, when many will go to Central Park for a 9:30 A.M. Mass to be celebrated by the Pope.
But inside Owen's school yesterday, it was business as usual, with no palpable sense of excitement. Regis, a competitive school named for a 17th-century Jesuit priest, encourages its students to internalize their faith.
So instead of wearing Pope buttons or waving banners, the 523 young men at Regis went routinely to classes and the library, shot hoops in the gym and played Frisbee in the lunchroom .
"It's more of a personal thing," Owen said of the Pope's visit. "People don't really talk about it, except to find out who's going to Central Park."
But although few wear their religion on their sleeves, they revealed a genuine excitement about the Pope's visit, when pressed.
"It's getting like more exciting that he's actually here," Owen said yesterday morning. "I can feel his presence."
Rodnev Lapommeray, a freshman like Owen, said he was going to the Central Park Mass with the fervent hope that the Pope would say something about Haiti, the native land of his parents. Mike Moro, a senior, received good-luck wishes all day because he is reading a petition in Japanese at the Mass tomorrow.
The Rev. Kenneth J. Gavin, the president of the school, said the relative absence of Pope mania represented a conscious effort.
"You cannot be a Catholic in New York without the Pope's visit affecting you," he said, "but the Pope is part and parcel of our whole life. The very things the Pope talks about -- being a pilgrim of peace or issues of poverty -- are issues that are shot through our curriculum all the time. To do it any other way would be grandstanding."
Owen had another explanation for the calm: "It's only been on TV since yesterday and we had three tests today and had to study. This is a hard school."
He and his two sisters -- Anne, 17, and Marcia, 16 -- will be among the tens of thousands at the Central Park Mass. About 80 of his fellow students will be there, too. He is an altar boy at St. Gabriel Church, where he went to elementary school, and he will go to Mass with the youth group from the church.
At 14, with his black shirt hanging down over his khaki pants, he has a flippant manner, complaining that his sisters still try to boss him around even though he is now the oldest boy at home in a family of nine children. His brothers Tim and Bill are away at school.
They are a close family, though, these nine children in seven different schools, all of the older ones thrilled that the man who embodies their faith is in New York.
Owen, who comes from a comfortable family and attends school in an affluent area, said he hoped the Pope would talk about homeless people. He said he felt bad about the people he saw on the streets of the city and hoped that maybe the Pope could help.
"Maybe he could get a more conscious effort on that," he said. "It's getting colder. There are soup kitchens but they're two miles away. It's hard, two miles away. It's not like the people around here, living in their big two- and three-story apartments."
He then switched into his comic-relief mode, insisting that some of the upperclassmen were making comments about the Pope's "$700 shoes" and his extensive security.
"I guess it doesn't matter what you say but what you do," he said a few minutes later. He went to the lunchroom to throw a Frisbee, then ran to catch the bus home.

TOMORROW: With the Reidys at the Pope's evening prayer service at St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Owen Reidy, 14, who is a student at Regis High School on the Upper East Side, and his father, William, watched the arrival of Pope John Paul II on television Wednesday. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH REGIS HIGH SCHOOL (65%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); RELIGION (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (70%); 

PERSON: REIDY, OWEN; POPE (JOHN PAUL II); LEE, FELICIA R POPE JOHN PAUL II (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



117 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Signs Order Easing Travel, Aid and Money Transfers Between U.S. and Cuba

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5

 BODY:
President Clinton has signed an executive order that would ease restrictions on travel to Cuba by Cuban-Americans, academics, artists and members of the clergy, and allow American relief agencies and human rights groups to greatly expand their work in Cuba, Administration officials said today.
In a speech on Friday, Mr. Clinton also plans to announce measures that would allow American and Cuban undergraduates to study in each others' countries and American news organizations to open bureaus in Cuba, the officials said. Mr. Clinton signed an executive order instituting the changes on Tuesday as part of a broad new effort to increase the flow of democratic ideas into Cuba, they added. 
 The order calls for the removal of travel restrictions for Cuban-Americans who want to visit seriously ill relatives in Cuba. The President also will allow Western Union to set up offices in Cuba to help Cuban-Americans send money to their relatives for travel to the United States once they obtain visas.
In August 1994, when thousands of Cubans attempted to sail to the United States, President Clinton ordered sanctions against Cuba to punish Mr. Castro for allowing the migration. He restricted travel by academics and barred Cuban-Americans from sending money to relatives. Now these restrictions are being relaxed.
Several officials suggested the new policy might be the first step toward a further opening toward the island, although they insisted Mr. Clinton would not only uphold the 33-year-old trade embargo on Cuba but strengthen it. The executive order also calls for the hiring of more officials to enforce the embargo, the officials said.
Several American officials, citing Fidel Castro's past ambivalence toward increased contacts between Cubans and Americans, suggested that the Cuban President might block many of Mr. Clinton's new initiatives from taking effect.
Mr. Castro, upon learning of the plan several weeks ago, pre-emptively denounced the Administration's moves as efforts to subvert socialism in Cuba.
Several conservative Cuban-American groups were quick to attack the changes, saying they could help prop up Mr. Castro and create warmer ties between the United States and Cuba.
Ramon Cernuda, the Miami representative of several Cuban dissident groups, said of the executive order: "On the one hand it will be applauded for humanitarian and family reasons by many in the Cuban-American community. The criticisms will come from those who want to maintain a climate of isolation and deprivation in Cuba."
Andres Nazario Sargen, leader of Alpha 66, which has long sought to overthrow Mr. Castro, attacked the new policy. "I'm not surprised," he said. "They've been planning this all along. They are pacifists and they're seeking an understanding with Fidel but he cedes only those things that do not damage him, and this will not damage him."
A senior American policymaker rejected such criticisms. "This policy will not sustain Castro unless you think more independence, more political activity, more Cubans having the ability to feed themselves and create jobs for themselves outside of the Government system helps Castro," the official said.
And Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, founder of Cambio Cubano, an exile group that favors negotiations with Mr. Castro, described Mr. Clinton's action as "very positive." Cuba, he said, "has taken steps forward, mostly in the economic realm but also in the political, and this is the required calibrated response. It undoes the president's error in making a deal with the far right."
In defense of lifting the restrictions, Administration officials said the freer atmosphere is intended to nurture independent thinking and activities outside the Communist system to help prepare Cuba for the eventual arrival of democracy there.
"We're trying to get more channels of communication open," said a senior State Department official. "We believe from what we saw in Eastern Europe that it helps to aerate the society. We're trying to help the Cuban people prepare for the inevitable transition."
The Administraton insisted that it was not changing its policy, but merely following the dictates of the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992, which calls for more people-to-people contacts with Cuba as well as tightening the economic noose around Cuba.
Several Cuban-American lawmakers complained that the Administration failed to consult them on the changes. But Administration officials said they discussed the policy beforehand with several members of Congress, with Florida officials and with a few Cuban-American leaders.
In the past, Cuba has refused to let American news organizations open offices on the grounds that successive Administrations would not allow Prensa Latina, the Cuban news agency, or other Cuban news groups to open bureaus in the United States.
Adminstration officials indicated that once several American news organizations won permission from Mr. Castro, then the United States would give the green light for Cuban news organizations to open bureaus.
A spokeswoman for The New York Times said it was "highly interested" in opening a bureau in Cuba. But the spokeswoman, Nancy Nielsen, added that The Times "would need to learn as much as we could about the working conditions that would be made available to us."
CNN, The Miami Herald and more than a dozen other American news organizations have asked permission from Cuba to set up bureaus.
Mr. Clinton's new policy will allow American relief organizations to do far more for Cuba than what they are allowed to do now: provide food and medicine. These groups will be allowed to work with independent Cuban organizations to build housing, set up businesses and conduct job training.
Jose Cardenas, the Washington representative of the Cuban-American National Foundation, said his organization was studying the order, but that Mr. Clinton appeared to be reacting to a recent House vote to further tighten the embargo on Cuba.
Administration officials said that under the new policy, Cuban-Americans could apply to send up to $300 every three months to relatives who are suffering from disasters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBAN-AMERICANS; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS WIRE TRANSFERS (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); REFUGEES (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); RELIGION (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (93%); FIDEL CASTRO (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



118 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-12
 
CEASE-FIRE REACHED IN BOSNIA
Bosnia's warring parties agreed to a cease-fire to be followed by negotiations in the United States intended to lead to a full international peace conference. A1
 
MEXICO READY TO REPAY U.S.
Mexico announced it has recovered enough from its economic crisis to repay a few weeks ahead of schedule $700 million of the $12.5 billion it borrowed from the U.S. A1
 
KENYAN PRESIDENT TURNS DEFIANT
President Daniel arap Moi of Kenya is refusing to hand over to an international war crimes tribunal any Rwandans charged in mass killings last year. A3
 
ACCORD ATTACKED IN ISRAEL
The Israeli-Palestinian agreement on the West Bank came under heavy attack in the Israeli Parliament and on the streets in its first major domestic test. A3
 
SURRENDER IN THE COMOROS
Africa's most infamous soldier for hire and his armed band surrendered to French troops who reversed his third coup in the Comoros Islands. A7
 
ORDER IN THE COURT
In marked contrast to the way the court handled the media in the O. J. Simpson trial, a judge in England has threatened editors of eight newspapers with contempt because of pretrial publicity. A11
 
Havana Journal: Chernobyl victims find refuge in Cuba. A4
 
National A14-25
 
CHANGES IN THE LEGAL SYSTEM
The O. J. Simpson trial has already provoked changes in some cases and in the nation's legal system, from pretrial maneuvering in the Oklahoma City bombing to tougher laws on domestic violence. A1
 
Some lawyers are being investigated for misconduct. A18
 
HURRICANE'S DEVASTATING WINDS
Although Hurricane Opal's winds slowed from their peak of 155 miles an hour, they damaged or destroyed thousands of buildings, sank dozens of boats and washed out roads. A1
 
Rains drenched an area from Alabama to Kentucky. A24
 
Damage is expected to cost insurance companies $1.8 billion. A25
 
BLACK BEARS AND DEATH THREATS
In a case that has rattled the Rockies, a Colorado man is getting death threats and may be charged after killing a black bear and her two cubs that were threatening a neighbor's mountaintop home. A14
 
WITNESS'S BROTHER IS SLAIN
A Philadelphian was shot dead only hours before his brother, a mob turncoat, was to testify against his former Mafia boss. A14
 
BUCHANAN CALLS FOR REFORMS
Patrick J. Buchanan, a Republican Presidential candidate, proposed overhauling campaign finance and lobbying laws and reducing Congressional perks. A15
 
HIGH COURT TO HEAR V.M.I. CASE
The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether Virginia's exclusion of women from its state-supported Virginia Military Institute violated the Constitution -- a case that will also decide the fate of The Citadel in Charleston, S.C. A21
 
MEDICARE PROPOSALS CRITICIZED
The American Association of Retired Persons and the American College of Physicians criticized Republican plans for Medicare. A22
 
SOME INCOMES SHOW INCREASE
Black households, single mothers and young adults saw their incomes grow as the economy expanded briskly last year. A22
 
The Dallas schools official taped using racial slurs resigned.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
CALL FOR MORAL RESPONSIBILITY
Speaking to the world from the rostrum of the United Nations and to America from the goal line of Giants Stadium, Pope John Paul II called on the nations to live up to their moral responsibilities and confront the crises that cloud this century's last decade. A1
 
A MASS AND A CELEBRATION
A soggy but exuberant crowd of 83,000, chanting and doing the wave with all the fervor of sports fans, squeezed into nearly every foot of Giants Stadium to participate in Mass with Pope John Paul II. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-32
 
Portuguese village in Newark. C1
 
Irish poet wins Nobel Prize. C30
 
Theater: "Company." C1
 
On Stage, and Off C2
 
"Endgame." C3
 
Film: "Assassins." C3
 
"How to Make an American Quilt." C12
 
"Kilian's Chronicle." C12
 
"Broken Harvest." C14
 
"Strange Days." C20
 
"Flirt." C21
 
"Land and Freedom." C23
 
Music: A sci-fi techno opera. C30
 
For Children C25
 
Restaurants C24
 
Art: Claes Oldenburg. C1
 
Sol Lewitt. C16
 
Inside Art C26
 
Jessica Stockholder show. C28
 
Art in Review C32
 
Books: James A. Baker 3d memoir C31
 
Television: TV Weekend D18
 
Home Video D18
 
Sports B14-20
 
Baseball: Yanks still savoring victory in Game 2. B15
 
Fans' behavior in Yankee Stadium upsets Mariners. B15
 
Reds may be a winner, but Davey Johnson will be a loser. B16
 
Columns: Vecsey on the Yankees B15
 
On Baseball B17
 
TV Sports B17
 
Football: N.F.L. matchups. B18
 
Jets to try another experiment. B18
 
Obituaries B12-13
 
Wim Swaan, photographer and architect. B12
 
Fred Fehl, dance and theater photographer. B13
 
Edward Lowe, Kitty Litter inventor. B13
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A30-31
 
Editorials
 
Bosnia: peace and peacekeeping.
 
False allure of concealed guns.
 
New York City's capital needs.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: Verdict on a trial.
 
Bob Herbert: Madness, not justice.
 
Anthony Lewis: An American dilemma.
 
John E. Wennberg: The wrong way to heal Medicare.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Crossword C28

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (94%); ISRAEL (93%); KENYA (92%); COMOROS (92%); UKRAINE (79%); RWANDA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFRICA (79%); CUBA (72%); ENGLAND (71%); FRANCE (57%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (94%); ISRAEL (93%); KENYA (92%); COMOROS (92%); UKRAINE (79%); RWANDA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFRICA (79%); CUBA (72%); ENGLAND (71%); FRANCE (57%); COLORADO, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PEACE PROCESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); MAMMALS (87%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COUPS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GENOCIDE (75%); ORGANIZED CRIME (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); WITNESSES (72%); TESTIMONY (72%); MISCONDUCT (71%); LAWYERS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (70%); BOMBINGS (70%); WAR CRIMES (70%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); JUDGES (67%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (62%); MEDICARE (61%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (60%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (54%); INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



119 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: MEXICO PAYS BACK PART OF U.S. LOAN

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 5

 BODY:
Mexico announced today that it had recovered enough from its crippling economic crisis to repay, a few weeks ahead of schedule, $700 million of the $12.5 billion it borrowed from the United States this year, a gesture that represents as much a political payback as an economic one.
The offer comes just days before President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico is scheduled to fly to Washington and New York for a series of meetings, including one with President Clinton next Tuesday. Mr. Zedillo will use the trip to argue that the American-led rescue was a success even though Mexico remains mired in a punishing recession that is severely restricting the sale of American goods here. 
 The early repayment of a portion of the $12.5 billion that Mexico has borrowed from the United States, and the payment of more than $400 million so far in interest on the loans without missing an installment, also provides Mr. Clinton with ammunition to silence critics who had warned that Washington would never recover the money.
In an impressive show of spin control, officials on both sides of the border portrayed the early repayment as proof that Mr. Clinton had been right when he stood by Mexico after Mr. Zedillo, in office for just weeks, was forced to devalue the peso abruptly, setting off Mexico's worst financial crisis in a decade.
In February Mr. Clinton served as the broker for $50 billion in international economic first aid for Mexico, including $20 billion in loans from the United States. He did so after the United States Congress refused to go along with a plan to give Mexico $40 billion in loan guarantees.
"Today's decision sends a positive signal to the financial markets that the tough financial measures Mexico has taken are succeeding and the American taxpayer is being paid ahead of schedule," Mr. Clinton said in a statement issued in Washington.
In an interview today at Los Pinos, the Mexican equivalent of the White House, Mr. Zedillo said, "This is a proof that the money lent was put to good use, that it was not a giveaway -- it was an investment made by the U.S Government." He said that the United States was getting a return on its investment in the form of $468 million in interest that Mexico had already paid.
Mr. Zedillo said the timely American helping hand also prevented "a major crisis in international financial systems."
Looking relaxed and speaking in English, Mr. Zedillo stressed that the short-term American loans had helped Mexico withstand a savage run on Mexican finances staged by international investors after the peso devaluation. He also placed blame for the crisis squarely on previous Mexican administrations.
"Many of the problems that Mexico has had in the past regarding inflation, unemployment and financial collapse have to do in their origin with irresponsible fiscal policies," Mr. Zedillo said.
To obtain the $700 million, Mexico sold five-year bonds worth the same amount in German marks in European markets today. Finance Minister Guillermo Ortiz said this morning that Mexico was trying to replace the short-term United States debt with longer-term bonds at more favorable rates. The refinancing transaction would be similar to those undetaken by homeowners to lower their mortgage payments and to spread them out over a longer time.
The Mexican Government's austere recovery plan of higher taxes, lower spending and strict controls on credit has restored some degree of investor confidence.
The Mexican stock exchange responded enthusiastically to the early repayment announcement today, surging more than 3.5 percent, and the exchange rate remained steady at about 6.5 pesos to the dollar.
The payment announced today is a first installment on $2 billion in short-term United States debt that comes due on Oct. 31. In effect, Mexico is repaying part of the 90-day loan three weeks ahead of schedule. The United States will renew the remaining $1.3 billion in loans for another three months, American officials said.
The $700 million will be used to repay $350 million that Mexico borrowed from the United States Treasury and $350 million from the Federal Reserve, American officials said. Mexico has made it clear that it does not plan to request any American money beyond the $12.5 billion it has already borrowed.
The bonds sold today are the third major international debt issue that Mexico has made since July, representing the country's return to the international credit market far sooner after the crisis than most economic analysts had expected.
Mr. Ortiz said Mexico planned to offer more bonds on the international market in order to make other repayments to the United States.
The American rescue package has set off intense debate in the United States and Mexico about the relationship between the two countries. Even as the signing of the North American Free Trade Agreement has brought the two economies closer together, fears of illegal immigration and huge job losses have at times seemed to make the two countries strangers living in the same house.
"I think one has to distinguish all the fog that is used periodically in political fights both in Mexico and the United States from the long vision that has been shared by the two Governments over the last few years," Mr. Zedillo said.
He said he expected the Mexican economy to grow between 3 percent and 4 percent in 1996, after shrinking this year.
The Goverment's own economic recovery medicine has been effective but harsh. About a million Mexicans have lost their jobs this year because of sharply higher inflation and sky-high interest rates. Taxes have increased too, eating away the buying power of already-low Mexican salaries, which have reached their lowest level of buying power in history, according to Mexican university studies.
But Mr. Zedillo gave no indication of letting up on the controls. "Some people believe there is a tradeoff between the state of people's well-being and the state of public finances, but they're wrong," Mr. Zedillo said. "If we want economic growth and if we want to create jobs and improve the well-being of our people, we have at all times to conduct a responsible fiscal policy."
Mexican officials said Mr. Zedillo and Mr. Clinton would discuss issues like immigration, drug control and the extradition treaty between the two countries, but that no important announcements were expected to be made.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Ernesto Zedillo discussing Mexico's loan repayment. (Sergio Dorantes for The New York Times)(pg. A10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (96%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL SYSTEMS LTD (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (96%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); FOREIGN LENDING (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ZEDILLO, ERNESTO (PRES); DEPALMA, ANTHONY BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



120 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Sluggish Income Figures Show Gains for Some

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5

 BODY:
Many of the Americans who suffered most in the economic downturn of the early 1990's -- black households, single mothers and young adults -- saw their incomes grow the fastest as the economy expanded briskly last year, the Census Bureau announced today. But overall, middle-class incomes continued to show virtually no gains, and the earnings of full-time workers dropped slightly.
The most striking gains were made by black households, which saw a 5 percent rise in median income after adjusting for inflation. 
 At the same time, the number of Americans living in poverty dropped by 1.2 million last year, to 38.1 million, the first decrease in five years, the Census Bureau reported.
Economists said poor Americans had benefited as unemployment fell and companies paid part-time and full-time workers alike to work longer hours. "This is the economy doing, finally, what it ought to do," said Douglas Besharov, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a Washington research group.
Yet middle-class incomes showed little recovery from the drop that began with the recession of 1990-1991. In 1992 and 1993, many economists referred to the recovery as a recovery without jobs, as companies expanded their output by working their employees harder rather than expanding their payrolls. More recently, Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich has warned of a recovery without raises because steady growth has not found its way into many middle-class pocketbooks.
The poor and the rich made the biggest gains last year, with average incomes going up by slightly more than 2 percent, while the middle class saw its average income go up by a little less than 1 percent.
Census officials refused to speculate on the reasons for the income changes, other than to note the strength of the economy. Mr. Reich said today that many families appeared to be working longer hours. Hourly wages stayed about the same.
The inflation-adjusted median income for American households edged up to $32,264 last year, from $32,041 in 1993, but the Census Bureau said that change was not large enough to be statistically significant. Half of American households earn more than the median, and half earn less.
While black households, single mothers and young adults fared best last year, their incomes still remained lower, after adjusting for inflation, than they were in 1989, the end of the last economic expansion. The most affluent fifth of the population has become more prosperous since then, while the other four-fifths of the population has lost ground, said Robert Greenstein, the executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a research group here.
In recent years, the Census Bureau's annual release of income and poverty figures has become the basis for an increasingly vituperative debate in Washington over whether welfare programs should be cut and whether the rich are getting an excessively large share of the nation's prosperity. The debate has continued despite warnings by Census Bureau officials that their income statistics may not be the best basis for it because those figures do not take into account taxes, many forms of Government assistance and regional differences in the cost of living. The poverty line, $15,141 for a family of four last year, has faced similar criticism.
Democrats and Republicans alike seized on today's figures to buttress their positions. Joseph E. Stiglitz, the chairman of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers, said that the Clinton Administration's economic policies had helped economic growth and had contributed to a reduction in the percentage of Americans in poverty, to 14.5 percent last year from 15.1 percent in 1993.
But Senator Connie Mack of Florida, the Republican chairman of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, said that Government policies were to blame for the general stagnation of middle-class incomes.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Fewer People in Poverty. . ." shows poverty rate as a percentage of total U.S. population from 1975 to 1994. ". . . But Median Income Continues to Stagnate" shows median household income from 1975 to 1994. (Source: Census Bureau)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; BLACKS; SINGLE PERSONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENSUS (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); FAMILY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); STATISTICS (75%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



121 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Says Investing Cash Will Pay Off

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 5

 BODY:
To defend itself against Kirk Kerkorian, the Chrysler Corporation is preparing to argue to its big investors that it can create better returns by spending some of its cash reserve on new products and new strategies rather than on a special dividend or share repurchase, a company executive said today.
Chrysler is girding to counter proposals by Jerome B. York, Mr. Kerkorian's chief strategist and a former chief financial officer at Chrysler, for the company to share more of its cash with stockholders. Mr. York plans to present his ideas to the company in about two weeks. 
 But Chrysler believes it can make a strong case to investors not to tinker with its financial plan, which calls for a cash cushion of $7.5 billion to take advantage of opportunities that arise and to see it through the next downturn. Robert J. Eaton, Chrysler's chairman and chief executive, is preparing to meet with big investors this month, perhaps before Mr. York makes his proposals.
Chrysler executives have already met with the company's institutional investors three times since November, said the executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Mr. Eaton is expected to tell the investors, as he suggested in a speech in New York on Tuesday, that Chrysler has plans that will do more to enhance shareholder value than simply handing out cash.
For example, Mr. York has said that by increasing the leverage of Chrysler's financial subsidiary, the company could free up $500 million for investors. But Chrysler executives said the company was looking at using that money -- which they say is closer to $300 million -- to support more leasing. That would not provide a one-time jolt to the share price, they said, but would generate a better return for years to come.
Chrysler might also use some of the cash to finance a new car or truck not already accounted for in its capital budget, or to pursue a joint venture abroad.
 Chrysler said it would be considering these moves regardless of Mr. Kerkorian's goading. But people in Mr. Kerkorian's camp scoffed at the company's assertion.
Mr. Kerkorian, who holds more than 14 pecent of Chrysler's stock, failed last spring in a bid to buy the company. Since then, he has been cagey about his intentions, saying only that he thinks Chrysler has hoarded too much cash.
Some Chrysler executives still appear to believe that Mr. Kerkorian's true goal is to force the company to buy him out at a premium. Mr. Eaton suggested in his speech that was the case, and he declared that Chrysler would "not entertain" paying greenmail.
In a "Dear Bob" letter to Mr. Eaton today, Mr. Kerkorian said, as he has before, that he would not accept greenmail. He requested that Chrysler's board amend the company's bylaws "to insure that no shareholder receives any benefit for its shares that is not equally available to all shareholders."
 In a statement, Chrysler said, "Mr. Kerkorian's suggestion is unnecessary, since the board's position is clear: we have no intention of paying him or anyone else greenmail."
Chrysler, which had $6.9 billion on hand at the end of the second quarter, wants to preserve a substantial cash cushion because auto makers can burn through enormous amounts of money -- not only in bad times but even in fair to middling times.
As the economy softened between last December and July, for example, Chrysler used about $3 billion of cash, officials said. The introduction of a new line of mini-vans, increased rebates and other incentives, and a cut in production reduced Chrysler's cash on hand to less than $5 billion at one point in July.
Mr. York says he thinks Chrysler needs only a $5 billion reserve, the target he set before departing as the company's chief financial officer in 1993. Although Chrysler has grown since then, it has also become more efficient, has developed more popular products and has bolstered its credit rating, he points out.
His record as a finance officer at I.B.M. after he left Chrysler suggests that Mr. York is more likely to urge the auto maker to buy back a large amount of stock than to call for higher dividends. While he was at I.B.M., the company did not raise its dividend, but announced two stock buybacks of $2.5 billion apiece.
Stock buybacks tend to be more popular among pension funds and other big institutional investors -- whose proxy votes Mr. York may need -- because dividends are taxable.
Chrysler's stock slipped 25 cents a share today on the New York Stock Exchange, to $51, while the shares of Ford and General Motors rose.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; AUTOMOBILES EXECUTIVES (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (72%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; EATON, ROBERT J; KERKORIAN, KIRK KIRK KERKORIAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



122 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Sales Rise at Discounters And Department Stores

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
Retailers in September managed to shake off the worst of the summer doldrums, which had been widely attributed to the oppressive heat in August.
Department stores and discount stores showed modest increases in sales, but the results were not shared by retailers in the hard-hit specialty apparel and specialty hard goods sectors, in which some stores suffered their worst month of the year. 
 The mixed results, analysts said, do not presage a spending spree any time soon.
"We think consumer spending will be constrained the rest of the year," said Richard N. Baum, vice president of investment research at Goldman, Sachs. The level of current installment credit is up year over year, Mr. Baum said, but not at the rate that it rose last year. "Since consumer spending is in large part driven by levels of installment credit, it means our spending power is less than it was a year ago."
Jeffrey M. Feiner, the senior retailing analyst for Salomon Brothers, said: "Consumers remain quite cautious. However, we expect a favorable Christmas, particularly for stores catering to upper-income consumers whose net worth has significantly benefited from the rise in the stock market."
Other analysts have estimated that Christmas sales will rise 3 to 5 percent from last year's lackluster performance.
The Salomon Brothers index of same-store sales rose 3.3 percent in September, following a 1.5 percent gain in August and a 3.9 percent gain in September 1994. The Bloomberg composite same-store index for September rose 3.2 percent from the previous year, following a 1.3 percent increase in August. The index rose 3.7 percent last September. Same-store sales, regarded as the most reliable measurement, are those at stores open at least a year.
At the Dayton Hudson Corporation's Target discount stores, same-store sales were up 9.1 percent from the corresponding period last year. Sales at Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and the Kmart Corporation, the nation's biggest and second-biggest retailers, were up 4.2 percent and 4.1 percent, respectively. Nevertheless, Kmart said it expected earnings in the third quarter to be "well below" last year's 4 cents a share.
The Kohl's Corporation led the mini-resurgence among department stores, with same-store sales up 14.2 percent. Federated Department Stores Inc. posted a 4.9 percent gain, while Sears, Roebuck & Company's sales were up 4.5. But sales at Broadway Stores Inc., formerly Carter Hawley Hale, plummeted 17.4 percent, and those at the J. C. Penney Company fell 0.9 percent, the second consecutive monthly drop.
By contrast, in the specialty apparel sector, same-store sales fell 21 percent at Charming Shoppes Inc.; 10 percent at the Ann Taylor Stores Corporation; 5 percent at Lane Bryant, a unit of Limited Inc., and 3.3 percent at Talbots Inc., a subsidiary of the Aeon Group. But even in that vulnerable category, all was not gloom and doom. Sales at Ambercrombie & Fitch, also a unit of Limited, rose 15 percent. At Eddie Bauer, a unit of Spiegel Inc., they gained 5 percent, and at Gap Inc. they rose 3 percent, the company's biggest increase in four months.
"Retailing is still marked by essentially the same trend evident in most of 1995," said Mr. Feiner of Salomon Brothers. "Consumers are going to department stores, given their broader merchandise mix."
Sales at Neiman Marcus, the upscale retailer owned by Harcourt General Inc., gained 5.5 percent last month. "While people today, and especially women, are in a spending downturn for fashion apparel," said Kurt Barnard, who publishes Barnard's Retail Marketing Report, "sales are excellent at the very, very upscale stores, where the wealthy sector shops."
In the specialty hard goods sector, same-store sales fell 13 percent at the Hechinger Company, 10.1 percent at Builder's Square and 7 percent at the Bombay Company last month.
The striking exception in that sector was stores that sell computers, audio equipment and electronics. Sales at the Audio King Corporation were up 19 percent, and they rose 8 percent at both the Tandy Corporation and Circuit City Stores Inc.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Retailers' Sales in September" shows year-over-year changes in Goldman, Sachs index of department stores based on monthly same-store sales from 6/94 to 9/95 (Source: Goldman, Sachs)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (85%); TGT (NYSE) (85%); JCP (NYSE) (85%); WMT (NYSE) (84%); KSS (NYSE) (81%); ANN (NYSE) (60%); GS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (85%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (85%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (85%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (85%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (85%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (84%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (85%); TARGET CORP (85%); J C PENNEY CO INC (85%); WAL-MART STORES INC (84%); CHARMING SHOPPES INC (84%); KOHL'S CORP (81%); KMART CORP (81%); BROADWAY STORES INC (80%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (62%); ANN INC (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY RETAILERS (95%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (79%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%); CHRISTMAS (67%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN KURT BARNARD (60%); RICHARD N BAUM (60%); JEFFREY M FEINER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



123 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Securities Rise Again

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities gained for the fifth consecutive session yesterday, as investors continue to believe that slow economic growth and low inflation will give the Federal Reserve the leeway it needs to cut short-term interest rates in the near term.
Prices were given a lift by the release of reports on jobless claims and housing completions. For the week ended Sept. 30, the number of first-time benefit claims climbed 6,000, to 341,000, up from the prior week, but slightly less than the 345,000 that had been expected. And August housing completions fell 7.9 percent, to a 1.2 million unit annual rate, the lowest level since September 1993. 
 The 30-year bond rose 6/32 , to a price of 1062/32 to yield 6.42 percent, down from 6.43 percent on Wednesday and the lowest since Feb 11, 1994, when it was 6.40 percent.
Traders speculate that the Commerce Department's August report on housing completions may also have brought investors back into the market to cover short positions, which would partly explain the momentum in the early session. The market firmed after the release of the report.
But the bulk of the day's gains, traders said, were tied to technical trading and follow-through buying after the December futures contract peaked above key resistance levels on Wednesday. The December bond contract ranged as high as 11522/32 yesterday and as low as 1152/32 before settling at 11511/32 .
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Securities, saw yesterday's bond market as preparing itself for today's deluge of monthly labor statistics. "While the rise in initial claims for unemployment insurance was less than expected today," he said, "the differential was meaningless because it was so small.
"Tomorrow's payroll number will certainly go a long way toward determining the near-term direction of the market," he added.
Mr. Fine said expectations center on a rise of 150,000 in the nonfarm payroll number, with expectations extending from a rise of 75,000 to a rise of 225,000.
"My own feeling is that some of the August gain seen last month captured jobs that ordinarily would show up in September, which is why my forecast of plus 125,000 is toward the lower end of the range," he said.
But in a broader sense, Mr. Fine said, the decline in bond yields over the last week is primarily the result of two factors. "First, the continued mixed nature of economic releases suggest an economy that is growing only moderately on a trend basis," he said, "and as a result is not likely to engender any increasing inflationary pressures."
"Second," he said, "there is growing belief that Congress, at some point, will enact legislation that will noticeably reduce the budget deficit. Both of these forces in concert will likely result in another Fed easing of 25 basis points before year-end, although the timing of the next Federal Open Market Committee action could well be influenced by potential debt ceiling snafus."
The committee, the policy-making arm of the Federal Reserve, next meets on Nov. 15. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Joseph V. Battipaglia, managing director of Sterling Advisors, a New York money-management firm, said that there was great anticipation today's employment number would be soft, with a gain of less than 100,000. "It's important to note that expectation has been coming down for the past several weeks," he said. "So the weaker the economy, so goes the bond market in the other direction."
Mr. Battipaglia thought yesterday's housing completions report may have had more impact than the jobless claims, suggesting that the housing sector was still uneven. "Although mortgage rates are at 25-year lows, it has not sparked a breakout for the housing industry," he noted.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows averager weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds from 6/95 to 10/95 (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); HOUSING COMPLETIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); FUTURES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD FINE (74%); JOSEPH V BATTIPAGLIA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



124 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Sunglasses are in fashion, and so is the stock of Sunglass Hut.

BYLINE: By Leslie Wayne 

 BODY:
WHEN Andre Agassi showed up at the United States Open tennis tournament in his spiffy clothes and Oakley goggle-style sunglasses, he exemplifed a trend that has turned Sunglass Hut International, a retailer of fancy sunglasses, into a stock market darling.
Cool and hip are words generally used to describe Sunglass Hut's products -- Revo, Armani, Oakley and other top-of-the line sunglasses that are sold through more than 1,400 locations, from shopping malls to airport kiosks. With an average ticket of $80 for sunglasses, the company, based in Coral Gables, Fla., is being regarded by analysts as the next retail "category killer," a type of store, like Home Depot, Barnes & Noble and Staples, that sells one category of products and wipes most competitors off the map. 
 Sunglass Hut, however, has almost no competition. What is distinctive about the company is that it has taken an ordinary commodity -- sunglasses -- and forged a new distribution network and, in doing so, promoted the sales and design of new high-end products. Sunglasses, it turns out, are turning into a fashion statement not unlike sports footwear, in which popular sports and entertainment celebrities take something mundane and functional and turn it into a high-margin, sought-after and pricey status symbol.
"Sunglass Hut is perhaps the most interesting company I cover," said David A. Buchsbaum, an analyst with Southeastern Research Partners in Charlotte, N.C. "They have no significant competition, they have an extremely talented managment, and consumers are responding to their offerings. I originally recommended the stock at $17 and change and it's a long way up since then."
Sunglass Hut, which trades on Nasdaq, has been selling between $45 and $50 a share recently and closed yesterday at $46.625, unchanged. Just five months ago, it was hovering in the mid-$20 range, which means it doubled in value during the summer sunshine. Some of the company's numbers are eye popping. Most analysts estimate a growth rate of 35 percent a year; since going public in June 1993, the stock has appreciated 300 percent, compared with the return on the Russell 2000 index of small companies of 33 percent. Merchandise margins are an extremely high 60 percent because so little real estate is needed to sell so expensive a product.
Despite this stellar performance, many analysts say the company is only beginning to realize its potential and say there is more upside left -- although not perhaps in the immediate future given the run-up in price to date. They praise Sunglass Hut's recent strategic moves, which include merging with Sunsations, its closest rival, and entering the prescription eyeglass market with a new line of Sunscriptions sunglasses and new Eyex stores, which will sell high-end regular prescription eye glasses. Sunglass Hut is also setting up shop in Federated and Sears department stores and has been a hit overseas, from sports-minded Australia to cloudy England. Because Sunglass Hut buys in such volume, it can offer its Ray-Bans and Seregenti glasses at prices more attractive than other eyeglass chains, which tend to sell cheaper styles anyway, or than mom-and-pop operations.
An aging population plus the sunglasses-as-fashion trend will provide the underpinnings of future growth, analysts say. "The technology of sunglasses is really changing," said Thomas Filandro, an retailing analyst at Gerard Klauer Mattison & Company, a research firm. "Look at all those baseball players, sitting in the dugout, wearing Oakleys. They are not going to allow their batting average to go down or their fielding to become poor just to sponsor an item. And how many young boys watching baseball now want Oakleys?"
Analysts are hard pressed to come up with shadows on this bright long-term outlook. Overexpansion, a lessening of interest in expensive sunglasses, an economic downturn, or a dark and miserable winter could all be bad for the company. But sunny weather willing, the company so far has been able to avoid missteps in its expansion strategy -- just yesterday, in fact, Sunglass Hut reported strong third-quarter same-store sales gains, with a 13 percent rise.
Most analysts expect that the company's high price-earnings multiple of 70 will fall in the next year to a more earthbound 35 or so. But they say a rise in earnings will keep the stock in the $50 range in the near term and even higher for the long run. A planned offering of 1.5 million new shares from the Sunsations merger is considered too small to hurt the current stock price.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: RAYS (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (92%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (92%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (92%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: SUNGLASS HUT INTERNATIONAL INC OAKLEY INC (92%); SUNGLASS HUT INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUNGLASS HUT INTERNATIONAL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS OPTICAL GOODS STORES (90%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); NEWSSTANDS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE ANDRE AGASSI (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



125 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Daiwa Officials Said to Consider Quitting

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 5

 BODY:
As Japan's regulators opened their investigation of the Daiwa Bank, the institution's top two executives were reported today to have suggested that they would resign to take responsibility for $1.1 billion in losses incurred by a Japanese-born trader in the New York office.
The disclosure last week that Toshihide Iguchi, a top bond trader, had secretly incurred such huge losses over 11 years at one of Japan's large commercial banks has increased worldwide anxiety over Japan's banking troubles. Confidence in the banking system has been undermined by the fact that Mr. Iguchi was able to avoid detection for so long, although the markets initially shrugged off the incident because the losses would not severely impair Daiwa's capital base. 
 "We have to worry because the scandal was disclosed at a very bad time," Japanese news reports quoted the Vice Finance Minister, Kyosuke Shinozawa, as saying.
Japanese authorities are likely to feel particularly embarrassed by Daiwa's disclosure when they meet Saturday in Washington with finance ministers and central bankers of the Group of Seven industrial nations, which includes the United States and Japan.
The United States Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, has reportedly indicated that Japan's economic woes and its banking system, hobbled by at least $500 billion in bad real estate loans, will be an important topic.
Japanese news reports said that Daiwa's president, Akira Fujita, and its chairman, Sumio Abekawa, were to step down, though no specific dates were given. A Daiwa spokesman refused to comment on the reports.
In its initial disclosure, Daiwa portrayed the losses as the unfortunate consequence of Mr. Iguchi's behavior, saying he falsified records of his trading activities and fooled his bosses and auditors. Critics say the Ministry of Finance and other banking regulators did not adequately inspect Daiwa's banking activities.
Some Japanese press reports have said that another trader and other Daiwa employees were either involved or aware of the mounting losses. Other reports have said that between the time Daiwa apparently learned of the possible misconduct and the time it publicly disclosed it, the bank was able to sell part of its stock holdings -- at a nice profit -- to help cover the $1.1 billion loss.
Officials at Daiwa and the Ministry of Finance refused to comment on any of these reports.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS; 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: DAIWA BANK DAIWA BANK FINANCIAL FUTURES SINGAPORE PTE LTD (91%); MINISTRY OF FINANCE (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAIWA BANK MINISTRY OF FINANCE (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ACCOUNTING (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); SCANDALS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); BONDS (72%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; FUJITA, AKIRA; ABEKAWA, SUMIO; IGUCHI, TOSHIHIDE TOSHIHIDE IGUCHI (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



126 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: New York City's Capital Needs

 BODY:
With its crumbling bridges, collapsing schools, crowded prisons and deteriorating public buildings, New York City faces major infrastructure investments in the next several years. The resources available for the task are shrinking, however, because of the city's budget problems. Two decades ago New York's last fiscal crisis led to a long and disastrous period of low public investment. To avoid a recurrence, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani must find other ways to meet the city's needs.
Mr. Giuliani has twice announced cutbacks on capital spending. Part of the reason is that the city is approaching the constitutional ceiling on the amount of bonds it may issue in relation to the value of its real estate, which is declining. Another factor is the challenge by City Comptroller Alan Hevesi to Mr. Giuliani's proposal to raise capital funds by selling New York City's water system. 
 The Mayor has made one promising suggestion, about to be adopted by the City Council, to meet the problem. That is to create a new Department of Design and Construction to save money by completing capital projects more rapidly. The Mayor's office estimates that perhaps 15 percent of the cost of each project can be squeezed out if the current multi-agency bureaucracy is consolidated. City Hall also believes that further money can be saved from standardized practices, new technology and better coordination of building projects.
The Mayor should then redouble his effort to repeal the Wicks Law, which requires the letting of many small construction contracts instead of one big overall contract. Mr. Giuliani estimates that this change alone could save $1.4 billion in construction costs over the next 10 years. Additional savings might be achieved if the city took a tougher bargaining position with construction unions, demanding concessions in much the way it has demanded savings from the municipal labor force.
The current capital plan calls for investing $40 billion over the next decade. It is an enormous sum that is still probably inadequate to the city's needs. In the last several months, the capital budget of the city received far less publicity and scrutiny from the City Council than the budget for day-to-day spending on welfare, health programs and other city services. The Mayor and Council need to address the issue in public so that New Yorkers can be told about the choices involved.
For example, many of the city's construction projects could be scaled back or stretched out. Mr. Hevesi has suggested that $1 billion for housing programs in the next five years be distributed over a longer period of time. Similar stretchouts might make sense for port renovations and other economic development projects that, however worthy, should be of lower priority than renovating schools and basic infrastructure like roads and bridges.
The temptation to let these problems slip is great, since politicians would rather maintain services that people depend on now than spend money that will not be appreciated for years. But a fiscal crisis is no time to jeopardize the safety and well-being of the next generation of New Yorkers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); BONDS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (68%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



127 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Takes a Dive on Doubts About Central Bank Intervention

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell sharply yesterday as doubts grew that central bankers would intervene in foreign-exchange markets to support the dollar.
Currency traders squared their positions and sold dollars as they awaited United States economic data on employment today and the end of a meeting of ministers and officials from the Group of Seven industrial nations in Washington. 
 "It was a rout," said Kevin Lawrie, a vice president at Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh. "Maybe some of the expectations from earlier in the week have dissipated."
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar fell to 98.58 Japanese yen from 100.94 yen on Wednesday. The dollar also fell to 1.4205 German marks from 1.4349 marks and to 1.1389 Swiss francs from 1.1531 Swiss francs. The British pound rose to $1.5854 from $1.5821.
Despite the broad selloff, traders remained wary of the possibility that central banks could come into the markets to buy dollars if the Group of Seven reaffirmed a commitment to the dollar this weekend.
But such intervention is unlikely early next week because of the Columbus Day holiday in the United States on Monday and a national holiday in Japan on Tuesday.
The dollar rose earlier this week as traders tried to protect themselves from intervention after the Group of Seven meeting this weekend. On Wednesday and yesterday, traders changed their minds.
The dollar dropped on profit taking and doubts that the United States would bother to intervene unless the Japanese addressed their banking troubles.
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said this week that the United States hoped the Japanese would put together a plan to strengthen its banking system, which faces $400 billion in bad loans.
Without steps by Japan to act on its flagging economy by bolstering the banks, the United States might drop its efforts to weaken the yen. A weaker yen would help Japanese exporters and the economy as a whole.
"We are putting another demand on the Japanese, and maybe the market is perceiving that they are not going to be able to do it," said Peggy Reed, a currency vice president at Credit Agricole.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); ACA (PAR) (52%); ACA (BIT) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (52%); GROUP OF SEVEN (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); CENTRAL BANKS (92%); US DOLLAR (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



128 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: It's Not News to Experts That Consumer Price Index Is Inflated

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Not So Quick on This Budget Elixir" (editorial, Sept. 30) states that I believe I've "uncovered a politician's dream: huge spending cuts and tax hikes that are too technical to understand or much notice." 
 The issue here is the Government's use of changes in the Consumer Price Index as a proxy for changes in the cost of living. You describe me as in a "rush" to alter present practice. I respectfully demur. Thirty-three years ago I became Assistant Secretary of Labor for Policy Planning and Research. I was nominally in charge of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which computes the C.P.I. The statisticians were tolerant and friendly. They undertook to teach me to the extent I was teachable. They even shared professional confidences.
One of these was that the Consumer Price Index overstates the cost of living. I have kept a watching brief on this matter ever since.
There are a range of reasons, the simplest being the "substitution bias." The index prices a fixed market basket. If the price of meat goes up, the cost of the basket goes up. But if consumers switch to poultry, the change in the basket cost does not accurately measure the change in the cost of living. I will omit the "hedonic regression method" for estimating the value of quality change as somewhat too sensational. Suffice that there are many upward biases (some downward), and they are no mystery.
You state the Bureau of Labor Statistics "already knows about the potential biases and is updating its procedures." No, no, no. About every 10 years it reconstructs the basket, and this usually lowers the trend line.
In 1998, the C.P.I. will incorporate new expenditure weights from the 1993-95 expenditure survey. This will give us an up-to-date C.P.I. It will not give us a cost of living index. Nor in my view ought we to ask the Bureau of Labor Statistics to convert the one to the other. This is a task for Congress and the President.
A panel of economists has proposed reducing adjustments based on the C.P.I. by one percentage point to reflect cost of living changes accurately. In 12 years that would bring in $1 trillion. Alternately, we would lose $1 trillion. In the process we will lose Social Security, or so I believe.
 
DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN
U.S. Senator from New York
Washington, Oct. 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; INDEXING (ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT SYSTEM); COST OF LIVING CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); COST OF LIVING (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATISTICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TRENDS (76%); FOOD PRICES (76%); STATISTICAL METHOD (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAX LAW (72%); POULTRY (71%); TAX INCREASES (57%); 

PERSON: MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



129 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: First-Time Jobless Claims Rise by 6,000

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5

 BODY:
The number of American workers filing first-time claims for jobless benefits rose by 6,000 last week, the biggest increase in three weeks, but remained at a level analysts said reflected modest job growth.
The Labor Department said today that new applications for unemployment insurance totaled a seasonally adjusted 341,000, up from 335,000 in the week that ended on Sept. 23. 
 It was the highest level since 366,000 initial claims were filed in the week ended Sept. 16.
The claims figures were released on the eve of the monthly employment report, which analysts said would probably confirm moderate job growth.
The four-week moving average of new weekly jobless claims dropped by 250, to 351,500 from 351,750. It was the lowest since Sept. 9.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) LABOR DEPARTMENT (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) LABOR DEPARTMENT (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE JOBLESS CLAIMS (95%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



130 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Assembly Speaker Offers Plan to Stop Subway Fare Rise

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
With just four weeks until subway, bus and commuter rail fares are scheduled to rise, the Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, has proposed a $410 million package, including up to $200 million in state and city aid, to keep fares at their current level through the end of 1996.
Yesterday's proposal by Mr. Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, would require Gov. George E. Pataki and possibly Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to do an about-face in a year when both had cut support for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. But Mr. Silver suggested that the Governor, the Mayor and the Republican leaders of the State Senate might find the fiscal sacrifices politically preferable to a 25-cent increase, to $1.50, in the city's transit fare and a 9 percent increase in commuter rail fares. 
 "It makes sense for everybody," he said. "We're developing a reasonable plan that everybody contributes to. Both the city and the state have a lot at stake economically."
Mr. Silver's call for $110 million from the state got a cold reception from the Governor, who said, "We are not in a position to spend that type of additional state money in this year's budget or in next year's budget."
But Senator Norman J. Levy, a Merrick, L.I., Republican who is chairman of the Transportation Committee, called the Silver plan "a significant, positive step forward." He noted that the Speaker's proposal was in some ways identical to one Mr. Levy himself made last month.
And John McArdle, a spokesman for Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, said, "I would refer you to Senator Levy for a read on how the proposal would fare in the Senate."
Deirdra Picou, a spokeswoman for the Mayor, said, "We have to study the plan before we respond to it."
The first element of Mr. Silver's three-part plan would have the state give back $110 million of the $220 million it took this year from a metropolitan-area mass transit fund to balance the state's budget. The budget had cast that transfer of funds as a loan, though it did not specify when it would be paid back.
"It's a legitimate obligation of the State of New York," Mr. Silver said. He said he had not discussed the issue with the Governor or his aides, or with Republican legislators, but he added, "I would think that they would go along with it."
The second element of Mr. Silver's proposal would prevent the M.T.A. from siphoning $210 million a year from its operating budget to pay for capital projects. Changing that pay-as-you-go approach, advocated by the M.T.A. chairman, E. Virgil Conway, would make that money available to keep the fares down.
This part of the Speaker's plan might be the easiest to carry out. The $11.9 billion, five-year M.T.A. capital plan requires the approval of a four-member review board, which includes two critics of the plan, Mr. Levy and Assemblywoman Catherine T. Nolan, a Queens Democrat.
But John Cunningham, an M.T.A. spokesman, said Mr. Silver's idea "would sacrifice the capital program in order to save the fare."
"That's the way we used to do business in the 60's and 70's," he continued, "and we thought we had gotten away from that."
As the third part of his plan, Mr. Silver suggested that the city give the M.T.A. $85 million, another element that mirrors Mr. Levy's proposals. The city formerly reimbursed the M.T.A. for the cost of operating the transit police force, which was merged this year with the city's Police Department. The M.T.A. has asserted that the city underpaid over several years and owes the authority $88 million, which the city denies.
Mr. Levy has said the city should pay the M.T.A. the money. Mr. Silver said the city could contribute $85 million and view it as either a payment of that debt or simply a way to help keep the fare down.
Mr. Silver said the city could take the money from a special tax passed four years ago by the Legislature for the Safe Streets, Safe City program. The money was supposed to increase the size of the police force, but Mr. Silver said the tax had generated far more than was needed to meet Safe Streets, Safe City staffing targets.
As an alternative to the city contribution, Mr. Silver proposed a package of measures that would raise the same amount of money, including allowing increased vending in the subways, consolidation of some departments and a limited hiring freeze at the M.T.A.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (57%); STATE SENATE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SENATE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; BUSES; SUBWAYS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ; RAILROADS URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (75%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; SILVER, SHELDON (SPEAKER); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



131 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 31; Column 1; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
A Political Insider With Bush Tells of the Outside

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI 

 BODY:

THE POLITICS OF DIPLOMACY
Revolution, War and Peace, 1989-1992
By James A. Baker 3d with Thomas M. DeFrank
Illustrated. 687 pages. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $32.50. 
 James A. Baker 3d never hid his distaste at having to leave his post as Secretary of State to bail out President George Bush's floundering 1992 re-election campaign. Mr. Baker even points out in his new memoir that "in 14 years of public service, I've only lost my composure once -- on Aug. 13, 1992, the day I announced I was leaving the State Department to become President Bush's chief of staff."
It was widely reported at the time that Mr. Baker had been disappointed at having to forfeit his image as a statesman and return to the grungy world of partisan politics, where he had won a reputation, in Time magazine's words, as "The Velvet Hammer," the master of those Washington black arts of handling, leaking and spin control.
The reluctant campaign manager did not pull out the election for President Bush, and since returning to private life, he has devoted himself to writing these memoirs, memoirs that assiduously avoid dealing with Mr. Baker's roles as a campaign manager and White House chief of staff for Presidents Reagan and Bush. Like many political memoirs, "The Politics of Diplomacy,' which was written with Thomas M. DeFrank of Newsweek magazine, is more interesting for what it leaves out than for what it discloses.
Not only does Mr. Baker decline to give the reader an insider's tour of the Ford, Reagan or Bush administrations, in which he served, but he also seems unwilling to reveal much about his four-decades-long friendship with George Bush, his political mentor and protege. Instead, Mr. Baker dwells almost exclusively on the foreign policy issues he grappled with during the 43 months he served as President Bush's Secretary of State, a momentous period that witnessed the breakup of the Soviet Union, the fall of the Berlin wall, the end of apartheid in South Africa and the gulf war.
Although there are a couple of displays of Mr. Baker's down-home, Texas-style taste for ribald expression -- he calls Gen. Manuel Noriega of Panama a case of "bad chili" and refers to President Hafez al-Assad of Syria's penchant for marathon meetings as "bladder diplomacy" -- most of this book is written in a hard-working student's careful, dessicated prose. Mr. Baker, a precise man who was famous for always keeping his jacket buttoned over his monogrammed shirts, is equally buttoned-up about his feelings in this book. He reveals almost nothing about himself, save the fact that he likes to play tennis and hunt, and just as little about the world leaders he routinely dealt with. He describes Mikhail Gorbachev as "invariably positive" and Boris Yeltsin as "physically intimidating," and uses the word "stalwart" to describe the British so many times that it begins to feel like a Homeric epithet.
In his first meeting with Yitzhak Shamir in 1989, Mr. Baker says, he tried to break the ice by suggesting some improbable common ground. "We both know that the media like to pigeonhole people with catch phrases," he told Mr. Shamir, who was then Israel's Prime Minister. "You've been described to me as a man of principle who is incapable of being practical. I've probably been described to you as a man totally lacking in principle who cares only about being practical."
This image of Mr. Baker as a wily pragmatist who worked to implement a foreign policy that was essentially ad hoc and reactive frequently surfaced in the press during his tenure in the State Department. And this book, despite its efforts to confer diplomatic immortality upon its author, only reinforces that perception.
In these pages, Mr. Baker repeatedly argues that politics and policy "are inextricably linked" and that "politics drives diplomacy, not vice versa." He found, he writes, that "common sense was an effective guide to action"; he says he would call himself "a realist" who believes in solving "the problems of the present before tackling the problems of the future."
A few pages later he adds that he approached "the world of 1989 from the 'inside out,' much the way I had approached politics and government."
"I started with an overall notion of where we wanted to go," he writes, "and worked backward from that goal, beginning with those institutions that we had to control or influence the most in order to achieve our objective: first, the immediate bureacracy; second, the Congress; and third, the press. Once we had done what we could in this regard, we would work on insuring our 'continental base' (relations with Canada, Mexico, and Central America), then strengthening and, where necessary, expanding our alliances across the Atlantic and Pacific."
Given this workmanlike outlook, it's little wonder that neither the Bush Administration nor Mr. Baker's new book has done much to articulate a vision of foreign policy. While Mr. Baker frequently emphasizes the importance of "new thinking" in coping with a rapidly changing world, there is no discussion in these pages of broader moral or ideological issues, no overview of how America should cope with a post-cold-war world. Instead, Mr. Baker's narrative moves ploddingly from incident to incident, crisis to crisis, issue to issue.
His efforts to help President Bush put together an international coalition for the Persian Gulf War tend to read like a candidate's hunt for crucial delegates at a convention, while his drive to bring about the first full-scale peace talks between Israel and her Arab neighbors often sounds like a political strategist's attempts to exchange favors and compromises for votes on a big Congressional bill.
Because these negotiations in the Middle East eventually led to the 1991 peace conference in Madrid (which in turn opened the way for advances under the Clinton Administration), because the gulf war wrought changes in the region that the Bush Administration was able (and willing) to exploit in the pursuit of a goal, the chapters devoted to these negotiations are by far the most interesting -- and vivid -- part of the book.
On other matters, Mr. Baker tends to offer predictable responses. He defends the Bush Administration's muted response to the crackdown in Tiananmen Square, arguing "we had to strike a delicate balance between the need for decisive steps and the need to safeguard the underlying strategic relationship to the extent possible." He rationalizes the Bush Administration's support of Saddam Hussein before the gulf war by arguing that "at the time, we saw Iraq as a potentially helpful Arab ally in moving the moribund Middle East peace process forward." And he argues that the war in Bosnia could not "have been prevented by any combination of political, diplomatic, and economic measures."
Although Mr. Baker tries to suggest that the Bush Administration played a crucial role in ending the cold war, his account underscores the fact that it was a role largely confined to responding constructively to developments within the Soviet Union and to initiatives on the part of Mr. Gorbachev and Mr. Yeltsin.
For all his success in politics, Mr. Baker seems to have never been able to forget his grandfather's admonition to "work hard, study and keep out of politics." And with this book he reveals that "the Velvet Hammer" would rather be remembered as a Warren Christopher or George Shultz.
With "Diplomacy," the man who became famous for handling scattered politicians and malleable reporters has turned his attention to the reader; the man famous for spinning the message of the week is now spinning his own image for history. And yet, readers, like voters in the last Presidential election, are unlikely to buy his message. In this case, it's clear the diplomat is still a politician.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James A. Baker 3d (G. P. Putnam's Sons)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: POLITICS OF DIPLOMACY, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); PANAMA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: G P PUTNAM'S SONS (91%); NEWSWEEK INC (54%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); PANAMA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SYRIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); POLITICS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); DESERT STORM (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (71%); 

PERSON: KAKUTANI, MICHIKO; BAKER, JAMES A 3D; DEFRANK, THOMAS M GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



132 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

A Loss of $1.8 Billion Seen From Hurricane
Hurricane Opal will cost insurance companies about $1.8 billion, enough to make it the fourth most expensive disaster to American insurers, and the third most costly hurricane. 
 Although the losses will be small compared with the $15.5 billion caused by Hurricane Andrew in 1992, they are enough that analysts expect renewed efforts by insurers to limit the amount of business they do in coastal areas exposed to hurricanes. [Page A25.]
Retail Sales Mixed in September
 
Retail sales in September managed to shake off the worst of the summer doldrums, with department stores and discount stores showing modest improvement. But some specialty-apparel and specialty-hard-goods stores suffered their worst month of the year. [D4.]
 
Dollar Falls on Intervention Doubts
The dollar fell sharply as doubts grew that central bankers would intervene in foreign-exchange markets to support the dollar. The dollar fell to 98.58 Japanese yen from 100.94 yen on Wednesday and to 1.4205 German marks from 1.4349 marks. [D7.]
 
The stock market rebounded from recent losses, with the Dow industrials rising 22.04 points, to 4,762.71, and the Nasdaq gaining 11.93 points, to 1,014.20. [D8.]
 
Rhone-Poulenc Raises Fisons Bid
Rhone-Poulenc Rorer increased its hostile offer for Fisons by about 10 percent, to nearly $3 billion, and backed up the bid by purchasing more than 16 percent of the British drug maker's shares on the open market. [D6.]
 
Alcatel Details Its Reorganization
Serge Tchuruk, Alcatel Alsthom's chairman, said the French telecommunications-equipment maker would reorganize along product lines and might have losses of up to $5 billion in 1995. [D6.]
 
Resignations Possible at Daiwa
The top two executives of Daiwa Bank were reported to have suggested that they would resign to take responsibility for the $1.1 billion loss incurred by one of its bond traders. [D6.]
 
Fewer Americans in Poverty Status
The Census Bureau said that the median income of black households rose 5 percent last year and the number of Americans living in poverty dropped by 1.2 million. [A22.]
 
Levi Buys Software Company
Levi Strauss has acquired the Custom Clothing Technology Corporation, the software company that created the technology for custom-fit bluejeans for women. Financial terms were not disclosed. [D2.]
 
Mexico Makes a Payment
Mexico said that it had recovered enough from its economic crisis to repay, ahead of schedule, $700 million of the $12.5 billion it borrowed from the United States this year. [A1.]
 
Campaign Aims at Gay Consumers
Subaru of America, the Travelers Bank and Visa U.S.A. are teaming up with the tennis star Martina Navratilova for an affinity marketing program aimed at gay and lesbian consumers. The program involves an affinity card that will help raise funds for charitable causes through a new Rainbow Card Foundation. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D6.]
 
Sunglass Hut Is Market Darling
Analysts are calling Sunglass Hut the next "category killer," a type of store, like Home Depot and Staples, that comes into the market selling one type of product and wipes most competitors off the map. Market Place. [D8.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: V (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (80%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (55%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (75%); 

COMPANY: VISA INC (80%); CUSTOM CLOTHING TECHNOLOGY CORP (63%); RHONE-POULENC RORER TURKEY (55%); RHONE-POULENC RORER PHILS INC (55%); RHONE-POULENC SA (55%); RHONE-POULENC RORER BANGLADESH LTD (55%); RHONE-POULENC RORER SA (55%); RHONE-POULENC RORER INC (55%); RHONE-POULENC RORER AS (55%); RHONE-POULENC RORER GMBH (55%); RHONE-POULENC RORER PAKISTAN LTD (55%); RHONE-POULENC RORER PUERTO RICO INC (55%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INSURANCE (91%); HURRICANES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (86%); POOR POPULATION (85%); WEATHER (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); RETAILERS (75%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (75%); RETAIL SALES (75%); BONDS (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); CHARITIES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); LOYALTY MARKETING (71%); POVERTY RATES (70%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (70%); TENNIS (69%); SPORTS (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); BOND MARKETS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); GAYS & LESBIANS (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); CENSUS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



133 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: CONFLICT IN THE BALKANS: THE IMPLICATIONS;
Balkan Peace at Hand? 4-Year Path to a Truce

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5

 BODY:
The Croats have what they want. The Serbs are exhausted. The Muslims see no better option. That, four years after the wars of Yugoslavia's destruction began, is the basis on which the United States was able today to announce the outlines of a road to Balkan peace.
It is a grim, and perhaps fragile, basis for a settlement. America only took the lead in pushing for peace after about 3 million people had lost their homes and more than 200,000 had been killed. The result is a deep reservoir of bitterness, particularly among Bosnian Muslims, that could easily trigger renewed fighting. 
 This legacy, replete with hordes of refugees, may weigh on the area for years to come, just as the Middle East was destabilized for decades by the 1948 war and its harvest of Palestinian refugees. But for now, it is clear that exhaustion and a rough balance of power in the area, combined with the bullying ingenuity of Richard C. Holbrooke, the chief American negotiator, made peace this year a real possibility.
There is still a long way to go. A cease-fire agreement worked out late last year by former President Jimmy Carter looked just as promising as the one announced today, but was never fully carried out.
Moreover, the central issue that has defeated all previous attempts at mediation -- the division of territory -- remains unresolved. Over the last four years, negotiation has never caused a single square foot of Bosnian land to change hands: that has been done by force alone.
"I don't think it's in the bag," said a senior State Department official. "There are very tough issues to deal with on the map, especially the fate of Sarajevo. But there's never been an opportunity like this one."
Radical changes on the ground over the last three years have created that opportunity. The Croats are now largely satisfied. They have recovered all but 3 percent of their territory within Croatia and grabbed perhaps one-fifth of Bosnia. Greater Croatia exists. This is almost certainly enough to insure the re-election of President Franjo Tudjman later this month.
The Serbs, meanwhile, have suffered serious military setbacks, losing the Krajina area of Croatia and seeing their share of Bosnia dwindle to about 49 percent from close to 70 percent. With the losses, the ability they long enjoyed to dictate terms has also evaporated.
This reverse has been rooted in the decision of President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia to lend only limited support to his brothers west of the Drina River in Croatia and Bosnia.
As a result, while the Muslim-Croat Federation has been fighting with the decisive support of the Croatian Army, the Bosnian Serbs have been relatively beleaguered. In effect, after a protracted struggle, Mr. Milosevic has brought the Bosnian Serbs to heel.
He is to be rewarded later this month with a visit to the United States, when talks between the Presidents of Serbia, Croatia and Bosnia will begin at a secluded, as yet undetermined, site.
Such a visit amounts to the culmination of a long-sought rehabilitation for Mr. Milosevic, who has long wanted to overcome his image in America as the man who destroyed Yugoslavia, and countless lives, by unleashing Serbian nationalism across the Balkans.
"There will always be a certain queasiness in dealing with the man," said a senior Administration official. "But in recent months Mr. Milosevic has proved himself a viable interlocutor. Even Arafat came to the White House in the end."
The fact remains, however, that the peace now taking form is one based on the acceptance of widespread destruction and enormous shifts in population.
For the Muslim-led Bosnian Government, the agreement on the cease-fire and further peace talks was an extremely difficult one, reached only after bitter internal debate, American officials said.
In the end it appears that only promises of large amounts of Western economic aid and military assistance in the event of a peace, as well as a sense that no more military gains were imminent, convinced the Government to sign.
The official singled out Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic of Bosnia as the most resistant to the current peace plan because he is concerned that it would ultimately cause the partition of Bosnia, with roughly 50 percent of the country going to the Serbs.
His position reflects that of many officials within the Bosnian Government and the army who are deeply skeptical of American assurances that Bosnia will remain a single state -- albeit one split down the middle -- with some real authority still vested in its central Government.
These officials contend that the only way to preserve a single Bosnian state may ultimately be to fight on and to defeat the Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic. This long-term objective is certain to persist for some time and is likely to be a source of tension if a settlement is reached and as many as 20,000 American troops lead a NATO force into the area to police the peace.
Administration officials insisted today that everything possible would be done to insure that Bosnia is not partitioned. Economic aid will be fashioned in such a way as to discourage the splitting of the country, and efforts will be made to insure that the final constitution will give the central Government of Bosnia real power.
However, the fact remains that, in any settlement, Bosnia is to be a state with three armies -- the loosely tied, but mutually suspicious, Croat and Bosnian Government forces on one side, and the Serbs on the other. If the NATO force only consolidates the lines between these armies, the ultimate death of Bosnia may become inevitable.
What hope there is for the country may now lie in the radically changed attitude of the Clinton Administration. President Clinton has already begun a drive to convince Congress that American troops must go to Bosnia in the event of a peace because American leadership of the NATO alliance is at stake and because only the United States can make a peace hold in the Balkans.
Four years ago, when Yugoslavia fell apart, America's position was the opposite: it tried to portray the conflict as a European problem and to leave it to Europeans to solve.
That policy persisted from the Bush Administration into the Clinton Administration. Its fruit was a long war. If the emergent peace is to hold, it seems clear that it must be led and guaranteed by the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard C. Holbrooke, the American peace negotiator, in Croatia yesterday after arriving from Bosnia with a cease-fire agreement. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); CROATIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; CROATIA; SERBIA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); CROATIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YUGOSLAVIA MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); RELIGION (89%); ARMIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); REFUGEES (75%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; HOLBROOKE, RICHARD C (ASST SEC) RICHARD HOLBROOKE (86%); JIMMY CARTER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995



134 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-5
 
CLINTON DEFENDS FOREIGN POLICY
President Clinton offered a sweeping defense of his Administration's foreign policy, denouncing what he called an "isolationist backlash" in the United States. 1 

P.L.O. PROPOSES ENDING ATTACKS
The Palestine Liberation Organization has sent Islamic militants a proposal under which they would suspend attacks on Israel from Palestinian-controlled areas. 2
 
CASE IGNITES RIOTS IN FRANCE
The killing of a 24-year-old Algerian by members of an anti-terrorist squad has focused attention on the anger felt by many North Africans immigrants to France. 3
A bomb in a subway trash can injured 12 people in Paris. 3
 
TIRED OF WAR IN BOSNIA
Many Bosnian soldiers have grown sick of war and long for a normal life, with parties and civilian clothes, and an end to the cruelty they have learned. 4
 
Fighting in northwestern and central Bosnia has intensified. 4
 
Allegations have struck a new blow to U.S.-Colombia relations. 5
 
Guatemalan solidiers killed at least 10 peasants, rights groups said. 5
 
Zwickau Journal: The little car that couldn't finds a following. 4
 
National 6-9
 
EASING NURSING HOME STANDARDS
As part of the Republicans' plan to shift power to the states, bills in Congress would repeal tough Federal standards for the quality of care in nursing homes. 1
 
A MAJOR DEMOCRATIC EXODUS
Since Bill Clinton was elected President, 137 Democratic officeholders have switched to the Republican Party in what is considered one of the largest shifts away from a single party in such a short time. 1
 
RISKS FROM VITAMIN A
Pregnant women who take high doses of vitamin A place their babies at higher risk of birth defects, a detailed study found. 1
 
RESTRICTING LEGAL SERVICES
If Congress has its way, lawyers in the 1,200 offices of the Legal Services Corporation will have smaller budgets and be restricted in the cases they can accept from people in the economy's cellar. 6
 
ANOTHER MILLIONAIRE ON THE TRAIL
Can the nation tolerate a third millionaire businessman taking the plunge into Presidential politics? Morry Taylor, a 51-year-old Republican and self-made mogul from Grosse Pointe, Mich., said it was worth finding out. 6
 
BOEING'S LARGEST UNION STRIKES
The Boeing Company's largest group of union workers went on strike after voting down a new three-year contract offer, but company officials said production would not be seriously affected. 8
 
STORM VICTIMS RETURN HOME
Residents along a 100-mile stretch of the Florida Panhandle Coast returned to their broken homes for the first time since Hurricane Opal struck only to find that their worst nightmares had come true. 9
 
FUTURE OF SIMPSON CHILDREN
An custody battle appeared to be shaping up over the fate of O. J. Simpson's children, as Lou and Juditha Brown sent mixed signals about whether they intended to relinquish custody. 9
 
Metro Digest 21
 
CONSENSUS ON CHANCELLOR
With the blessing of Mayor Giuliani, the Board of Education decided to offer the job of schools chancellor to Rudolph F. Crew, the superintendent of schools in Tacoma, Wash., even though he has not yet said whether he would take the job. 1
 
MORAL CHALLENGE FROM THE POPE
Speaking to 70,000 at the Aqueduct Race Track in Queens, Pope John Paul II called on New York City to pay more attention to hardship and poverty in its midst. 1
 
POPE FOCUSES ON SEMINARIANS
The Pope turned his attention to Catholic seminarians, the men who as priests will shortly be the spiritual leaders of his church. 1
 
Business Digest 35
 
Arts/Entertainment 11-17
 
Philharmonic musicians accept contract. 11
 
At a castle in Germany, a king-size yard sale. 11
 
Film: "Guimba." 12
 
"Good Men, Good Women." 12
 
"The Convent." 14
 
Music: Carnegie season opens. 11
 
"Don Giovanni." 16
 
"Urban Aid 4 Lifebeat," rap concert and AIDS benefit. 17
 
Sports 29-33
 
Baseball: Yankees fall to Mariners. 29
 
Indians sweep Red Sox. 29
 
Rockies take one from Braves. 31
 
Basketball: Nets and Knicks open training camps. 29
 
Columns: Rhoden on baseball 29
 
Football: Giants notebook 33
 
Obituaries 10
 
Francis O. Schmitt, pioneering molecular biologist.
 
Wladyslaw O. Biernacki-Poray, architect.
 
Lillian Fuchs, violinist.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 18-19
 
Editorials
 
Ensnared by the drug trade.
 
Computers worth protecting.
 
The poet and his pen.
 
A constitutional farce.
 
Letters
 
Frank Rich: The Dole dive.
 
Russell Baker: New York diary.
 
Margaret Morton: Homes for the invisible.
 
George W. Fellendorf: Why New Hampshire said no to $9 million.
 
Chronicle 20
 
Bridge 17
 
Crossword 16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (81%); BAB (BRU) (81%); BA (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); FRANCE (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (81%); FRANCE 3 SA (57%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); FRANCE (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); LEGAL SERVICES (86%); IMMIGRATION (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); LAWYERS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); POLITICS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); LEGAL AID (71%); RIOTS (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (68%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); NURSING HOMES (66%); STRIKES (64%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); RELIGION (57%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1995



135 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Storm Transforms Florida Beach Town Into a Scene of Ruins

BYLINE: By New York Times Regional Newspapers 

DATELINE: NAVARRE BEACH, Fla., Oct. 6

 BODY:
Before Hurricane Opal, this tiny beach town on a barrier island near Pensacola was covered by majestic sand dunes, sea oats and sun-loving tourists. Today, two days after the storm crashed ashore with 125-mile-an-hour winds and 20-foot waves, Navarre Beach is a desolate landscape.
The dunes, some 20 to 30 feet high, have been washed out to sea, along with the only road that ran through this town and the rest of Santa Rosa Island. Vegetation is gone. House after house along the water was battered, buckled or blown away. And the town's 300 permanent residents were being kept away from their property by several dozen National Guard troops. 
 All along a 100-mile stretch of the Florida Panhandle coastline, residents sought to return to their homes. In some areas, because roads and power were out and because of fear of looting, the authorities said it was still too dangerous to allow homeowners to inspect their property. Okaloosa County officials planned to allow residents to visit their damaged homes on Saturday, but only to collect personal items. Several other beach-front communities, which have been under 24-hour curfew, were opened briefly to residents today. .
Many people who did get to see or return to their property reached two conclusions: that despite the estimated $1.8 billion damage in Florida and the loss of life -- 18 deaths have now been recorded in four states -- the destruction could have been much worse if the storm had struck an urban area; and, second, that it would take weeks, if not months, for life in quiet coastal communities like this to return to normal.
"It really can't be the same," said Tom Chapman of Montgomery, Ala., whose 60-year-old waterfront vacation home in Santa Rosa Beach vanished during the storm. "There are too many memories and too much we put into that house."
Elsewhere in the Panhandle, about half a million people remained without electric power, and many towns lacked safe drinking water. It may take several more days to restore utility service.
Several roads and bridges remained impassable, and the authorities said it could take six months to rebuild parts of U.S. 98, the area's main coastal thoroughfare.
"This is a long-term emergency," said Jo Miglino, a spokeswoman for the state Division of Emergency Management in Tallahassee. "We're going to be in this for the long haul. There's no two ways about it."
In Navarre Beach, near where the hurricane's eye made landfall on Wednesday, it was hard to picture any recovery at all. A tour of the town today with a National Guard escort showed that every structure had suffered wind and water damage, some reduced to rubble and others left with gaping holes in walls and roofs. A few houses were swept into nearby Santa Rosa Sound, and pieces landed half a mile away on the mainland.
Sand coated the entire barrier island, obscuring the few parts of the roadway that were not washed out Wednesday. Debris of all sorts -- pieces of sailboats, abandoned cars, household appliances and, at one spot, a single water ski -- littered the waterfront. A sign outside the town's Holiday Inn, now standing in a newly formed tidal pool, stated the obvious: "CLOSED."
Some residents said they planned to rebuild, despite the continued risk of hurricanes.
"I don't want to lose the view," said Mr. Chapman, the Alabama man who lost his vacation home. "It's fabulous. You can't describe it. We had picture of it. But those albums are gone now."
Farther east, along Panama City Beach, where two-story homes, motels and souvenir shops along Highway 98 were sacked by the hurricane blasts, residents were shocked to find miles of beach swept away.
"I had a garden here -- now I've got a cliff outside," said Betty Dyer, a 10-year seasonal resident. "I don't know if Panama City Beach will ever be the way it was. At the least, it's going to take years and years of repairs. And after that happens, there'll be another reality. We don't have much of a beach left anymore."
C. F. Whatley, who has lived on the beach since 1984, predicted long-lasting economic woes from Opal.
"We'll have to do one heck of a sales pitch to get the Canadians and snowbirds to ever come back here again," he said. "We can only hope for what happens by next summer."
Other coastal residents found that perhaps the only thing worse than surveying damaged homes was not being allowed to return there.
In the luxury resort community of Destin, tensions were high as barricades and police officers kept elderly residents away from their beachside apartments.
"I thought surely they'd have to let us in," said Bob Pittman, a retiree who drove from Atlanta to check on his waterfront condominium. "They don't care if you own these places or not."
Many residents wanted just to retrieve photograph albums and other mementos -- "the things you have that reflect on your life," as Virginia Smithey, a retiree, put it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the aftermath of Hurricane Opal, residents along a 100-mile stretch of the Florida Panhandle returned yesterday to what was left of their property. In Destin, two people assessed damage along a boardwalk. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PENSACOLA, FL, USA (92%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FLORIDA PANHANDLE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; FLORIDA PANHANDLE; UNITED STATES (97%); FLORIDA, USA (97%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (92%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE OPAL HURRICANES (90%); WEATHER (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (70%); COUNTIES (69%); CURFEW (68%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (52%); 

PERSON: TOM CHAPMAN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1995



136 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: For Legal Aid, Tough Times Get Tougher

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: SAVANNAH, Ga.

 BODY:
Martha Bramblett, a slight 33-year-old mother of two, visited this city's office of Georgia Legal Services not long ago to get help with her marital problems.
Her husband, a mechanic, often turned violent after finishing his daily six-pack, she told Wanda Andrews, a lawyer there. In July, after a quarrel, Ms. Bramblett said, he stormed out of their trailer home outside town. Last month he hired a lawyer, served divorce papers on her and demanded custody of their children, ages 5 and 3. Ms. Bramblett told Ms. Andrews that she wanted the divorce. "But I'm not going to let him have custody of the kids," she said. 
 Legal Services lawyers who represent clients like Ms. Bramblett may soon be faced with turning away increasing numbers of them: Congress is preparing to enact legislation that would add heavily to deep budget cuts imposed on the lawyers in the Reagan Administration and restrict the nature of the cases they take.
The lawyers here, and in 1,200 other offices around the country, work for the Legal Services Corporation, created by the Government during the Nixon Administration more than two decades ago to help people in the economy's cellar fight the civil-law indignities and entanglements of everyday life. Legal Services lawyers take on spats with merchants, landlords, welfare officials and spouses, and problems of garnished paychecks and lost credit.
Now a bill approved by the House would chop the corporation's annual budget by one-third, to $278 million from the $415 million appropriated for the last fiscal year; a Senate version would cut it to $340 million. Because of budget cuts in earlier years, the corporation says, it already turns away about half the people whose below-poverty-line incomes qualify them for help.
The House bill would also dismantle the corporation, converting its financing into block grants to the states, which would have no obligation to allocate them to the existing Legal Services offices.
Both houses, which are expected to begin working out the differences between their bills during the week of Oct. 8, would prohibit Legal Services lawyers from lobbying on behalf of the poor before legislatures and government agencies, and from bringing class-action suits against public agencies. Both would also forbid the lawyers to take cases from prisoners, illegal immigrants or women seeking abortions.
In part, Legal Services has been swept into the budget-slimming tide rolling through Congress and the Republican conviction that the states can manage Federal money more efficiently than Washington can.
But it has also become a special target of conservative lobbies like the Christian Coalition that deem it meddlesome, liberal, anti-family and, in promoting the welfare rights of the poor, an obstacle to overhauling the welfare system.
"What I hear is they are going to emasculate us," said William K. Broker, managing lawyer of the Savannah office. "They take away half your money and restrict what you do."
Mike Hancock, executive director of the Farm Workers Justice Fund, an advocacy group for migrant laborers, said of the legislation, "They're horrible, terrible, restrictive bills that destroy the ability of Legal Services to represent poor people."
The corporation's opponents say it has far overstepped its mandate to help the poor. "It was almost as though in creating Legal Services we had asked bureaucrats to design a program to benefit liberal Democratic activists all over America," said Larry Neal, press secretary to Senator Phil Gramm, the Texas Republican who is the author of some of the legislation's tougher restrictions.
"Some of them are angry about losing their jobs," Mr. Neal said of Legal Services officials, "so I'm sure they are going to feel emasculated."
While Legal Services may be a symbol of liberalism or a line in the budget to lobbyists and lawmakers in Washington, to many of its clients it is simply a way to get help with some of the tedious but pressing problems of daily life. Nearly 1,000 of the 2,500 cases that the Savannah office closed last year involved housing disputes, and nearly 800 others involved family issues like protecting women from abuse and arranging custody of children.
Across the nation, the corporation says, 33 percent of all cases involve family law, 22 percent housing, 16 percent helping people collect benefits like welfare and Social Security, and 10 percent consumer disputes stemming from matters like personal bankruptcy or business fraud.
Lawyers in the Savannah office helped Yvette McGee, a 20-year-old mother of three, get her landlord to patch "a big picture-frame-size hole in the wall to the outside." He had refused to repair the hole, Ms. McGee said, until the lawyers wrote a letter for her, outlining her rights. She gave the landlord the letter, and soon he "patched up the hole and fixed some other things, too," she said.
Her mother, Frazier McGee, 43, said: "Business people don't hear your voice. They talk to you like you are dumb. The legal aid lawyer comes in and tells you, 'That's not the way it's supposed to be.' " Yvette McGee added, "When you have a lawyer, they talk to you like you are a person."
Mr. Broker, the managing lawyer in the Savannah office, said the legislation in Congress would force him to drop from one to three of the seven full-time lawyers there, an effect that would leave people like the McGees with that much less of a chance in trying to find someone to take their case.
Fourteen years ago, at the dawn of the Reagan Administration, Congress chopped financing for Legal Services by 25 percent. That cut alone, despite some small increases in the Legal Services budget later, has already taken a heavy toll. William Lutz, a spokesman for the corporation, said the legal staff had shrunk to one lawyer for every 8,000 people with incomes below the poverty line, from two for every 10,000.
This time, on top of the new budget cuts, Legal Services lawyers would encounter restrictions on the cases they could take. In addition to the ban on working on behalf of the poor before legislatures and regulators, they would be barred from taking on a client whose welfare or Social Security office had inexplicably cut benefits. And they would be forbidden to use contributions from private sources, like churches and charities, to take on cases that they would otherwise be barred from handling -- action on behalf of prisoners, for instance.
Then there is the proposed ban on class actions against government agencies. Although class actions account for only about 2 percent of the corporation's caseload, by their nature they can have a large impact. And under either Congressional bill, the Savannah office would have had to decline a case like one it has filed on behalf of 450 people, nearly all women who are, or recently have been, on welfare.
In that case, whose defendants include the United States Education Secretary and the State of Georgia, the office is asking the court to order forgiveness of the women's Government-guaranteed student loans. The lawyer handling the case, Murphy A. Cooper 3d, said that from 1988 to 1992, the women enrolled in an accredited private job-training schoolto learn nursing and office skills. Mr. Cooper said the school had promised to place them in jobs upon completion of the courses.
The women got help from the school in obtaining Government-guaranteed student loans of $2,000 to $4,000, money that was then paid to the school as tuition. "The school basically ran on student-loan money," Mr. Cooper said.
But the women say the school did not deliver what it promised. Most never found jobs and, without work, defaulted on the loans and lost access to credit. Until Legal Services interceded, the Government garnished the tax-refund checks of those who did find work.
"The question," Mr. Cooper said, "is who is going to be left holding the bag, the students or the lenders?"
The Savannah office's seven full-time lawyers, average age 42, earn $24,250 to $52,000 a year. But it is Albert Mazo, one of two full-time volunteers, who is perhaps the most passionate about his job. Now a little stooped and nearly bald at the age of 80, Mr. Mazo started a paint-manufacturing company in town after earning a law degree from the University of Georgia as a young man. When his wife died seven years ago, he sold his business and began practicing family law for Legal Services.
He describes the cases he has handled as eye-poppers. Right now he is enmeshed in a dispute over a 14-year-old girl whose father now has custody of her but who has confessed to having sexual relations with her. The girl's mother has a history of instability, Mr. Mazo said, but has now righted herself. "I'm going to try to get that child back for the mother," he said.
"I don't think of helping children as being liberal or conservative," Mr. Mazo said. "I just think of it as being right."
Only one significant lobby has emerged to defend the corporation: the nation's private lawyers, whose pro bono work could not begin to scratch the corporation's annual load of 1.5 million clients.
Dolly Chisholm, head of the Savannah Bar Association's pro bono committee, said that without the Legal Services office here, "a lot of these people would be out of luck."
"The office here runs just beautifully," she added. "Their motive is just to help serve the public."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Legal Services officials say Federal legislation would force them to turn away increasing numbers of people like Martha Bramblett, a poor Georgia woman fighting to retain custody of her son Dillan and another child. (Wade Spees for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCI (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7261 FUNERAL SERVICES & CREMATORIES (91%); SIC6553 CEMETERY SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: LEGAL SERVICES CORP SERVICE CORP INTERNATIONAL (91%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (82%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL SERVICES CORP LEGAL SERVICES CORP (82%); LEGAL SERVICES CORP (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL AID FOR THE POOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LEGAL PROFESSION LEGAL AID (92%); LAWYERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); BUDGET CUTS (88%); LOBBYING (88%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (76%); CHILDREN (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); CONSERVATISM (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); MOBILE HOMES (71%); APPROVALS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); CLASS ACTIONS (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T MARTHA BRAMBLETT (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1995



137 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Technology Shares Up a Bit But Other Issues Are Mixed

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
Stock prices were mixed yesterday, while some technology issues made a modest recovery.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 6.50 points, to 4,769.21. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.14 point, to 582.49, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 2.16 points, to 1,012.04. 
 "The stock market was directionless, motionless, trendless and friendless," said Hugh A. Johnson, senior vice president of the First Albany Corporation. "It clearly reflected the employment data."
The Labor Department reported yesterday that employers added 121,000 jobs in September, much fewer than expected. The August employment figure was revised upward by 13,000 jobs, to 262,000.
"The bottom line is that the economy continues to limp along at a no-boom, no-bust pace," Mr. Johnson said. "The earnings season is fast approaching and most investors are very edgy." The initial batch of third-quarter earnings reports -- including some from big corporations like Chrysler, Motorola and Texas Instruments -- is scheduled to be released week.
A number of technology stocks, which had been pushed down recently, managed to achieve modest gains, despite afternoon profit taking. Intel jumped 1 1/8, to 62, after being upgraded by Merrill Lynch. Other technology gainers included Computer Associates, up 1, to 40, and Cyrix, up 2 3/4, to 42 1/2. The initial public offering of ESS Technology ended the session at 16, up 1.
But shares of DSC Communications, a maker of telephone and cable television equipment, fell sharply after the company said third-quarter earnings would fall short of expectations. The stock fell 8, to 44 3/8, in very heavy trading.
Banking issues benefited from the belief by traders that interest rates would continue their decline. Citicorp advanced 1/8, to 72 7/8; J. P. Morgan increased 3/8, to 78 1/4; Mellon Bank gained 1, to 47 5/8, and Wells Fargo rose 1 7/8, to 199 5/8.
Big name household-products companies also finished on the upside. Procter & Gamble climbed 1 1/8, to 80 1/8, a record, and Johnson & Johnson rose 1 3/4, to 77 1/4.
The Dow Jones utility index slumped 1.25 points, to 215.07, after one of its components, Niagara Mohawk Power, announced plans to split itself into two companies. Niagara Mohawk shares fell 1 1/4, to 11 5/8. Consolidated Edison closed at 30 1/8, down 1/2; Commonwealth Energy closed at 41 3/4, down 5/8, and New York State Electric and Gas closed at 25 7/8, down 1/4.
Oil stocks were lower as concerns grew about various downward pressures on energy prices. ARCO declined 7/8, to 105 3/4; Texaco fell 1/8, to 66 3/8; Mobil dropped 1/4, to 101 7/8, and Chevron slipped 1/4, to 49 1/8.
Alcoa, which said that third-quarter profits more than tripled from the corresponding period last year, rose 1 1/2, to 53 1/8. Iomega, which projected a doubling of its third-quarter revenues, increased 3/4, to 19 3/4. And Sybase, which was upgraded by Soundview Financial, advanced 2 1/4,to 33 7/8.
Wal-Mart Stores traded down 1/8, to 23 3/4, after being downgraded by Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Advances topped declines on the New York Stock Exchange by 1,197 to 993. Turnover on the Big Board dropped to 313.7 million shares, from 367.5 million on Thursday; the average daily volume this year has been slightly less than 338 million shares.
Earlier yesterday, stocks in Tokyo ended sharply higher. The Nikkei index of 225 issues closed up 285.87 points, or 1.57 percent, at 18,506.28, after hitting a high of 18,547.43.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (81%); GLCH (NASDAQ) (72%); JNJ (NYSE) (63%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); CA (NASDAQ) (55%); TXN (NASDAQ) (55%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); BK (NYSE) (53%); PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%); ED (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (60%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (51%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (81%); GLEACHER & CO INC (72%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); NEW YORK STATE ELECTRIC & GAS CORP (60%); INTEL CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); CA INC (55%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (55%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (53%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (51%); NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (84%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); BONDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (64%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (64%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1995



138 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Credit Jumped in August

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6

 BODY:
Consumers borrowed heavily in August, running up their installment debts by another $9.1 billion after an $8.8 billion increase in July, the Federal Reserve said today.
Outstanding consumer installment credit was expanding at an 11.1 percent annual rate in August, up from the 10.9 percent rate seen in July.
Much of the increase came from greater use by consumers of their credit cards.
Revolving or credit-card debt ballooned upward by $4.33 billion in August, for an annual rate of 13.8 percent, compared with a $3.25 billion expansion in July.
"We think consumers are getting pretty deeply in hock," said Cynthia Latta, an economist at DRI/McGraw Hill Inc. in Lexington, Mass.
Borrowing to buy new cars slowed sharply in August, as auto loans expanded by $1.46 billion for an annual rate of 5.2 percent. That was down from the $4.42 billion in car loans posted in July.
Before seasonal adjustment, total outstanding consumer installment credit in August was $987.87 billion, up from $971.58 billion in July and up from $863.05 billion a year ago.
There were other signs this week that American consumers' ability to keep spending, and thus keep fueling the country's economic growth, could be pinched.
The Commerce Department said on Monday that personal incomes from wages, salaries and all other sources were flat in August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) CONSUMER LENDING (92%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1995



139 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: Little Change In New Jersey And New York

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Employment levels in New York City, New York State and New Jersey were nearly unchanged in September, with the region continuing a sluggish pattern of economic expansion that is lagging behind that of most of the nation, Government reports showed yesterday.
"The region is on a slow and uneven growth path as we enter the fourth quarter," said John L. Weiting, the New York regional commissioner for the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "The economy just doesn't have sufficient strength to make much of a dent in the ranks of the unemployed." 
 The Labor Department's monthly data for the nation's 11 largest industrial states showed that the unemployment rate fell slightly in New York State, to 6.8 percent in September from 7.1 percent in August. In New York City, it fell to 8 percent from 8.3 percent.
The unemployment decline was sharper in New Jersey, to 5.7 percent in September from 6.6 percent in August.
But Mr. Weiting said the apparent improvement in New Jersey was "not as good as it first appears" because it partly reflected a decline in the number of people looking for work, including young people who returned to school.
The unemployment rate is based on the number of people who are actively looking for jobs; thus, it does not count those who have withdrawn from the labor market.
The number of people employed in the region -- regarded by many experts as a better gauge of economic performance than the unemployment rate -- rose by less than 1 percent last month.
Employment was virtually unchanged in New York State, at 8 million jobs, and in New Jersey, at 3.8 million jobs. It rose in New York City to 3 million jobs in September from 2.9 million jobs in August.
Connecticut is not among the 11 states for which the Labor Department provides separate figures when it releases the national jobs data each month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (79%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); STATISTICS (76%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J JOHN L WEITING (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1995



140 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

POPE URGES NEW YORK TO BE KINDER
Echoing the moral challenge he has posed several times since his arrival Wednesday, Pope John Paul II called on New York City to pay more attention to hardship and poverty in its midst. "Have the people living in this huge metropolis lost sight of the blessings which belong to the poor in spirit?" the Pope said at a morning Mass for about 75,000 people at Aqueduct Race Track in Queens. [Page 1.]
Nationally, the number of Roman Catholic seminarians has fallen precipitously in recent years, and the Pope came to St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers to offer them encouragement, saying those who would be priests must be tough-minded in a materialistic culture, yet spiritually alive and compassionate. [1.]
 
JOB OFFER EXPECTED IN SCHOOLS SEARCH
With the blessing of Mayor Giuliani, the Board of Education has decided to offer the job of schools chancellor to Rudolph F. Crew, the Superintendent in Tacoma, Wash., even though he has not yet said whether he would take the job, officials said. [1.]
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
BOMBING SUSPECT ORDERED TESTED
A Federal judge ordered a defendant in the third trial stemming from the World Trade Center bombing to undergo psychiatric tests after the man tried to stab himself in prison and threatened to kill his court-appointed lawyer. He has been demanding a Muslim lawyer. [22.]
 
LIMELIGHT CLUB IS ALLOWED TO REOPEN
A week after police staged a drug raid there, the Limelight was allowed to reopen under an agreement with the city that calls for more rigorous security to deter drug use and sales. The club is to hire more bouncers and retain security consultants to create a more comprehensive anti-drug program. [22.]
 
ARREST IN SNACKING BURGLAR CASE
In a world plagued by bank robbers, carjackers, kidnappers and tax cheats, detectives in Queens say they have captured a man who developed a voracious new type of robbery: the snacking bandit. The suspect, a Queens man, was arraigned on charges that he sneaked into the homes of elderly East Elmhurst residents, stole cash and other valuables, then raided their refrigerators on his way out. [22.]
 
CHESS GAME ENDS IN ANOTHER DRAW
Viswanathan Anand agreed to a uninspired draw in Game 16 of his world championship chess match with Gary Kasparov, making it look as though he has reconciled himself to bowing out of contention with respectable draws. The score is now 9 1/2 to 6 1/2 with four games to be contested. Another draw will give Mr. Kasparov at least a tie match and thus enable him to retain his title. [28.]
 
REGION
 
UTILITY ASKS TO RESTRUCTURE
Threatening to throw itself into bankruptcy unless it wins relief, Niagara Mohawk Power, the utility that serves much of upstate New York, has proposed forming a separate company to free itself from state regulation. The company said its sweeping plan was necessary to avoid sharp increases in the cost of electricity for millions of New Yorkers. [Business Day, 35.]
 
REGIONAL EMPLOYMENT REMAINS STAGNANT
Employment levels in New York City, New York State and New Jersey were nearly unchanged in September, with the region continuing a sluggish pattern of economic expansion that lags behind that of most of the nation, Government reports showed. [Business Day, 36.]

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Riding Underground" shows NYC subway riders from 1991 to 1995. (Source: New York City Authority)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ROBBERY (87%); TAX FRAUD (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); BURGLARY (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (68%); BOARD GAMES (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (66%); BANK ROBBERY (66%); JUDGES (66%); DRUG POLICY (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); CARJACKING (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1995



141 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Payrolls Rose By 121,000 In September

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6

 BODY:
Factory employment resumed its decline in September, but the economy generated enough service jobs to swell overall payrolls by 121,000, Labor Department figures showed today.
The unemployment rate, meanwhile, remained at 5.6 percent, about where it has hovered for a year. 
 Today's report, the first broad gauge of economic performance for September, provided additional evidence that growth picked up a bit over the summer but that conditions were still soft enough to dispel fears of revived inflation.
"It looks like almost the perfect soft landing," said Frank McCormick, senior economist at the Bank of America, referring to the Federal Reserve's effort to restrain an economy that was expanding at an unsustainably rapid pace in late 1994. "The Fed should be quite pleased."
New Jersey and California posted sizable declines in their jobless rates during September while Pennsylvania and Florida had increases. New York State recorded a slight decline, although employment levels in the region were nearly unchanged. [Page 36.]
The nationwide increase in payroll jobs was about at the pace needed to keep up with population growth and was a bit below expectations. At the same time, the Labor Department raised its estimates for July and August by a total of 35,000 and the Clinton Administration and most private analysts continued to regard the job market as satisfactory, although not robust.
"These numbers are further evidence that we are likely to see continuing economic growth with low inflation in the second half of this year," said Joseph E. Stiglitz, chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers.
After some early swings, market reaction to the employment report was subdued, with analysts finding little to inspire thoughts of change in monetary policy. Richard B. Hoey, chief economist at the Dreyfus Corporation, called the results "plain vanilla" and "very close to neutral" for the Fed's policy makers.
Still, the drop of 32,000 factory jobs following a flat August was an unsettling development and brought the total decline since March to 200,000. The declines last month were widespread, with the biggest ones in motor vehicles and in apparel and textiles, where the department noted that losses have accelerated of late.
On the other hand, the factory workweek lengthened by 6 minutes last month and factory overtime rose 12 minutes. When uncertain about the economic outlook, companies tend to squeeze more production from existing workers rather than hiring new ones.
Temporary-help and other business services added 59,000 jobs last month, while social services and health services spurted 58,000 and retail trade jobs climbed 48,000. Finance, insurance and real estate, all of which have been moving slowly higher for several months, added 8,000 in September. Government jobs fell 30,000 after a huge August jump, a gyration the department attributed to the trend toward an earlier opening of the school year, a change that has not yet been fully reflected in the seasonal adjustment process.
Construction was reported up 16,000 but this was significantly overstated, the agency said, because sluggish hiring during the spring and summer left fewer workers than usual to be laid off in September.
Average hourly earnings, the report also showed, rose 4 cents after easing 2 cents in August. Average weekly earnings rose six-tenths of 1 percent, nearly offsetting August's decline.
The department's survey of households found 361,000 more people with jobs. This nearly matched the expansion of 380,000 in the labor force, leaving the unemployment rate unchanged.
But Merrill Lynch & Company pointed to the likelihood of more "slack" in the labor market than suggested by a jobless rate of 5.6 percent. It cited the fact that the proportion of adult men who are employed, 72.8 percent, is some two percentage points below the levels of the late 1980's. This probably reflects "reserves of potential workers who are not reporting themselves" part of the labor force, the brokerage firm's economists said.
Geographically, there was unusual regional disparity last month. Unemployment fell five-tenths of a percentage point in the West, to 6.4 percent, while it rose three-tenths of a point in the South, to 5.8 percent. The Northeast and Midwest were essentially unchanged, at 6.1 percent and 4.5 percent, respectively.
New Jersey's rate eased to 5.7 percent from 6.6 and California's declined to 7.2 from 7.8. By contrast, the rate for Pennsylvania rose to 6.4 from 5.5, while Florida's rose a full point, to 5.6 percent. New York's rate was 6.8 percent, compared with 7.1 percent last month.
If threatened budget cuts are carried out, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said it would have to reduce the number of households surveyed each month to 50,000 from 56,000 and would thus be unable to provide the early data on 11 large states.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Labor Picture in September" shows employment and unemployment statistics for September. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 36)
 
Graph: "Consumer Borrowing" shows net change in consumer installment credit outstanding from May 1994 to Aug. 1995. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) DREYFUS CORP (65%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (79%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (79%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); OVERTIME (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); TEXTILES (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1995



142 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
The Dole Dive

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH 

 BODY:
After a solid month of Powellmania, I am certain of only two things:
1. Anyone who counts "The Producers" among his favorite movies -- see "My American Journey," page 593 -- can't be all bad. 
 2. Bob Dole's campaign for the Presidency is kaput.
Since only the second of these two assertions is debatable, please forgive me for dwelling on it to the exclusion of an extended exegesis of the cultural overlap of Colin Powell and Mel Brooks.
Mr. Powell remains an enigma in any case -- a Rorschach test, as prognosticators are fond of prognosticating, whose nearly papal popularity is more revealing about the rudderless populace that cheers him than it is about the man himself. And now that the Rorschach test has been taken by the political party to which Mr. Powell claims affinity, the preliminary results are easy to read: The Contract-era Republican establishment doesn't want Mr. Dole, whether Mr. Powell runs or not.
"It has grown harder and harder to fake any enthusiasm for G.O.P. front-runner Bob Dole," wrote Arianna Huffington last week in the lead essay on the most influential conservative editorial page in the country, The Wall Street Journal's. Mrs. Huffington -- whose latest cultist calling is as what Vanity Fair calls a "ubiquitous" and "self-appointed guardian" to Newt Gingrich -- is hardly speaking just for herself.
She is in fact merely stating in blunt language the message other leading Republican conservatives have been tiptoeing around since the Powell boom began in earnest after Labor Day. When William Kristol and William Bennett talk up a Powell candidacy, as Mrs. Huffington also is, they never endorse the retired general's few known specific views -- which are patently opposed to the Gingrich revolution they stand for and the religious right they are in bed with -- but instead use his glowing presence to beat up implicitly on Mr. Dole, for whom they can't muster even fake enthusiasm.
None of this has stopped the press from referring reflexively to Mr. Dole as the "G.O.P. front-runner" -- describing his candidacy much as Theodore H. White once described another front-runner in "The Making of the President 1972." Mr. White wrote that Edmund Muskie's campaign that year "seemed irresistible" because "he had solid financial backing, a large and experienced staff, the endorsement of the party's leading figures, the advice of the party sages, the affirmation of the nation's pollsters."
Mr. Dole, too, leads the existing G.O.P. field by far in cash, polls, staff and endorsements, but who believes this emperor has clothes? "Man Without a Message," declared a recent anti-Dole editorial in The Manchester (N.H.) Union Leader, the conservative primary-state rag that could yet bring Mr. Dole to grief as it reduced Mr. Muskie to tears.
As mushy in his views as was Mr. Muskie -- whose campaign slogan, "Trusty Muskie," emphasized the ur-Dole virtues of moderation and tried-and-true Washington experience -- Mr. Dole stands in relation to the true Gingrichian heart of his party's right-wing leadership as his Democratic antecedent did to his party's McGovernite left. As Arthur Miller wrote of Willy Loman, he is liked but not well liked. On a recent "Crossfire," Mr. Kristol foresaw a Dole nosedive as soon as Nov. 17, when he is "likely" to do "badly" in a debate on "Larry King Live."
The front-runner has no one but himself to blame for his stumble. As the Powell book was published, the Senator was already taking heat for reversing his principled, lifelong record on affirmative action and even changing the church where he worships to pander to the Christian Coalition. But he kept on flip-flopping -- whether by trying to stall Bob Packwood's departure, embracing the supply-side economics he once ridiculed or returning a contribution from the gay Log Cabin Republicans, whose support his campaign had solicited.
So universal has been the condemnation of Mr. Dole for such hypocrisies that no one bothers to talk about the age issue anymore -- as if the unlikelihood of a Dole Presidency has rendered it moot. Last weekend "Saturday Night Live" revealingly focused on the Dole character issue instead, depicting him as eager to score political points by implying Colin Powell was gay. The sketch would have been far funnier if its Bob Dole had not so sourly evoked the real thing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (50%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (50%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); US LABOR DAY (72%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK; DOLE, BOB (SEN) ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (72%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%); FRANK RICH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1995



143 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Talks in Rome Look to Helping Balkans Recover From War

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: ROME, Oct. 6

 BODY:
With the ink barely dry on a Bosnian cease-fire agreement, representatives of governments in the United States, Europe, Japan and the Middle East met in Rome today to begin thinking about ways to promote the financial and economic recovery of the war-torn Balkan region.
The American negotiator, Assistant Secretary of State Richard C. Holbrooke, said efforts were partly directed toward meeting immediate concerns. 
 These included the restoration of gas and electric service to Sarajevo, which the Bosnian Government has made a condition for carrying out the truce that Mr. Holbrooke brokered on Thursday and which is to take effect on Tuesday. Sarajevo's bedraggled population of 300,000 is facing its fourth consecutive winter without regular energy supplies.
Russia has announced that it would reopen a pipeline delivering gas to Sarajevo, but Mr. Holbrooke said restoration of electric service was proving to be a "technical problem," with access to some power pylons and generating stations hampered by land mines. He said delays in restoring power could lead to a postponement of the cease-fire, but he said he hoped any delay would be "exceedingly short."
The discussions were also directed toward lining up commitments for financial aid to promote economic reconstruction of the region.
Mr. Holbrooke, speaking at a news conference after the talks, stressed that economic assistance involved the entire Balkan region, including countries not involved in the fighting, like Albania.
The meeting came as large amounts of investment money are being sought to support the Middle East peace process. There was no talk of specific financial commitments, and while some diplomats attending the discussions said estimates of the required financial assistance went as high as $4 billion, others stressed that it was too early for precise figures.
The meeting was attended by representatives of the countries that have long been seeking to broker a Balkan peace, including the United States, Russia, Britain, France and Germany, as well as by the foreign ministers of Yugoslavia and Bosnia and the deputy foreign minister of Croatia.
Reflecting the need to drum up enough money to bolster the peace effort, the group also invited for the first time representatives of the Arab League and Japan.
Japan's Ambassador to Austria, Tsuyoshi Kurokawa, said that the Balkan war was "primarily a European problem, and maybe also of the United States," but that Tokyo was prepared to "cooperate closely."
Officials emphasized that Bosnia and Croatia faced not only the cost of reconstructing factories, roads, rail lines and power systems, but also a lag in opening up their economies to the kind of foreign investment that has surged into the other countries of Central and Eastern Europe since the collapse of Communism.
Carl Bildt, the European Union's mediator for the Balkans, said Bosnia was expected to send representatives as early as next week to European Union economic planning sessions in Luxembourg.
"This is the first of our meetings not focused on problems of war, but on problems of peace," he said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); AUSTRIA (53%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CROATIA (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); AUSTRIA (53%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available PEACE PROCESS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); POWER FAILURES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); 

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1995



144 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: THE POPE'S VISIT;
A Homily Links Human Progress and Salvation

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the homily by Pope John Paul II at Aqueduct Race Track yesterday, as recorded by The New York Times:
Dear Brothers and Sisters in Christ, 
 Jesus' words in today's Gospel bring me back to my youth and remind me of a song we used to sing in my home parish at Wadowice. The words of that song are very simple, but at the same time very profound:
"Come, Holy Spirit, we stand in need of your grace.
Spoken in Polish and then in English: "Make us grow in the heavenly knowledge you have revealed. Make it easy for us to understand it, and by our perseverance may it remain in us. Enlightened by that truth, we shall be confirmed in goodness."
Spoken in English: These words express well the theology of the Holy Spirit, through whom the Father reveals what is "hidden from the learned and the clever," and through whom the Son reveals the Father. The Spirit, in fact, is the active agent of the Church's evangelizing mission. For this reason, the Church constantly invokes the Holy Spirit, invokes the Holy Spirit, upon individual communities, and today we are doing the same, we renew that same invocation here, at the Aqueduct Race Track in Queens, in Brooklyn.
I am happy to see such a representative gathering of the faithful of this local church. I greet all of you with warm affection: your stalwart pastor, Bishop Thomas Daily; my brothers, cardinals and bishops, religious women and men from the Diocese of Brooklyn and many other dioceses. At the same time my greetings go to the leaders of the various religious denominations and the civil authorities from both local and state government. . . .
Spoken in Spanish: I know that there are many Spanish-speaking people, families and communities present at this Mass. In the heart of the Pope, you have a special place. To each one I express my sincere love and affection in the Lord.
 
'Progress of Peoples'
 Spoken in English: The theme of this morning's Mass is "Progress of Peoples." The progress of peoples is closely connected with the proclamation of Christ's message of salvation and hope. Of this salvation Isaiah speaks in the first reading: "The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Upon those who dwelt in the land of gloom a light has shone." This darkness stands for the spiritual darkness which sometimes envelops people, nations and history itself, in its desolate mantle. Certainly the 20th century has witnessed such periods of gloom. The two World Wars were times of great darkness which plunged peoples and nations into immense suffering. For many people, the 20th century continues to be a time of terrible anguish and torture. From the depths of such sad experiences the human family searches for a path of justice and peace.
Spoken in Spanish: Isaiah goes on to suggest that genuine justice and peace, the authentic progress of peoples, is centered on God's plan to send a Savior. For he writes: "A child is born to us, a son is given us. . . . His dominion is vast and forever peaceful. . . . He confirms and sustains by judgment and justice, both now and forever." Here the prophet is speaking of the Messiah whose arrival Israel so eagerly awaited. This is the Messiah so anxiously looked to by modern men and women, especially when they have been immersed in the devastating experiences of war, of concentration camps, of brutality and contempt for human dignity.
It is here that the words of Jesus, He who is our salvation and our hope, take on a special meaning: "Come to me, all you who are weary and find life burdensome, and I will refresh." Christ Himself carried a burden, and His burden -- the cross -- was made heavier by the sins of us all. But Christ did not avoid the cross; He accepted it and carried it willingly. Moreover, He now stands beside those weighed down by trials and persecutions, remaining beside them to the end. It is for all people and with all people that He carries the cross to Calvary, and it is there that for all of us He is nailed to his cross. He dies the death of a criminal, the most humiliating death known to the world at that time. That is why to those in our own century who carry terrible burdens He is able to say: Come to me! I am your brother in suffering. There is no humiliation or bitterness which I do not know.
 
God's Kingdom on Earth
 Spoken in English: It is precisely through the Gospel of the cross and through His Resurrection that Christ lays the foundations for advancement of God's kingdom in the world. The presence of this kingdom opens to us the dimension of eternity in God, and discloses the deepest meaning of our efforts to improve life here on earth.
What kind of society is worthy of the human person? The Church responds with the unique perspective of salvation history. She proclaims the truth that the Word of God, through whom all things were made, was Himself made flesh and dwelt among us. He entered the world's history -- our history -- as a man; a human person, a divine person. He took on our history and made it complete. By His Resurrection He became Lord and was given full power in heaven and on earth. Thus through the power of His spirit, Christ is now at work in our hearts and in our world. The Spirit instills in us a desire for the world to come, but He also inspires, purifies and strengthens those noble longings by which we strive to make earthly life more human.
Dear friends, we are gathered together in this enormous metropolis of New York, considered by many to be the zenith of modern civilization and progress, a symbol of America and American life. For more than 200 years people of different nations, languages and cultures have come here, bringing memories and traditions of the "old country," while at the same time becoming part of a new nation. America has a reputation the world over, a reputation of power, prestige and wealth, richness. But not everyone here is powerful; not everyone here is rich. In fact, America's sometimes extravagant affluence often conceals much hardship and poverty.
From the viewpoint of the kingdom of God we must therefore ask a very basic question: Have the people living in this huge metropolis lost sight of the blessings which belong to the poor in spirit? In the midst of the magnificent scientific and technological civilization of which America is proud, and especially here in Queens, in Brooklyn, in New York, is there room for the mystery of God? That mystery which is "revealed to the merest children," the mystery of the Father and the Son in the unity of the Holy Spirit; the mystery of divine love which is the source of everything? Is there room for the mystery of God? Is there room for the revelation of life -- that transcendent life which Christ brings us at the price of his Cross and through the victory of His Resurrection? . . .
The Gospel of the kingdom of God is open to every aspect of earthly progress which helps people to discover and enter the space of divine life, the space of eternal salvation. This is the work of the Church; this is the work which the Holy Spirit will accomplish through all of us, if only we will heed the truth he reveals and be confirmed in goodness.
 
Honoring Marriage and Family
 In practical terms, this truth tells us that there can be no life worthy of the human person without a culture -- and a legal system -- that honors and defends marriage and the family.
Society must strongly reaffirm the right of the child to grow up in a family in which, as far as possible, both parents are present. Fathers of families must accept their full share of responsibility for the lives and upbringing of their children. Both parents must spend time with their children, and be personally interested in their moral and religious education. Children need not only material support from their parents, but more importantly a secure, affectionate and morally correct family environment.
Catholic parents must learn to form their family as a "domestic church," a church in the home as it were, where God is honored, His law is respected, prayer is a normal event, virtue is transmitted by word and example, and everyone shares the hopes, the problems and sufferings of everyone else. All this is not to advocate a return to some outdated style of living. It is to return to the roots of human development and human happiness.
The truth which Christ reveals tells us that we must support one another and work together with others, despite cultural, social or religious differences. It challenges us to be involved. It gives us the courage to see Christ in our neighbor and to serve Him there. And, in imitation of our Divine Master who said, "Come to me, all you who are weary and find life burdensome," we ought to invite others to come to us by stretching out a helping hand to those in need, by welcoming the newcomer, by speaking words of comfort to the afflicted. This is the goodness in which the Holy Spirit confirms us! This is how you -- women and men; young people and old; married couples and singles; parents, children and families; students and teachers; professional people, those who work and those who are suffering the terrible burden of unemployment -- this is how everyone can make a positive contribution to America and help to transform your culture into a vibrant culture of life.
This, dear brothers and sisters, is what it means to work for the kingdom of God in America today. This is the way which leads to the true progress of nations and peoples; it is the path of justice and peace, the light which shines in the darkness, the yoke which is easy and the burden which is light. This is where our souls will find rest. . . .

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Paul II in the Popemobile with John Cardinal O'Connor at St. Joseph's Seminary. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; AQUEDUCT RACE TRACK

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; AQUEDUCT RACE TRACK

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: POPE (JOHN PAUL II) POPE JOHN PAUL II (94%); THOMAS V DAILY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1995



145 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Rises as Traders Try To Second-Guess the Group of 7

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Cautious currency traders, still trying to second-guess what steps the Group of Seven industrial powers may take this weekend, drove the dollar higher yesterday.
The dollar held its ground even as the German mark drew strength from political uncertainty in France. 
 The dollar rose early in the week on expectations that the Group of Seven -- the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada -- would reaffirm a commitment to keeping the dollar strong at the weekend meeting in Washington. On Wednesday and Thursday, the dollar fell on profit taking and on doubts that the leading central banks would back up a Group of Seven commitment with rounds of dollar-buying.
But yesterday, traders were not taking any chances.
"There are expectations that they will talk about the dollar during the G-7 meeting," said Dave Glowacki, senior trader at the NBD Bank in Detroit. "But many traders are still being careful about their moves ahead of the meeting."
The dollar was also supported late in the day by comments by Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, who said he welcomed the dollar's rise since the Group of Seven's pledge in April to continue economic cooperation efforts that would stabilize currency markets.
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar rose to 100.54 Japanese yen from 99.58 yen. The dollar rose to 1.4220 marks from 1.4205 marks and to 1.1449 Swiss francs from 1.1389. The British pound fell to $1.5833 from $1.5854.
The mark surged against other European currencies after Prime Minister Alain Juppe of France was accused of misusing his office when he was deputy mayor of Paris by obtaining cheap housing for his son. The allegations in French newspapers fed speculation that Mr. Juppe might be forced to resign.
The French franc fell as low as 3.5191 francs to the mark, its weakest since June 28, when it was quoted as low as 3.5306. The mark settled at 3.5125 francs, up from 3.4710 francs on Thursday. The mark typically benefits from political uncertainty in Europe.
In other currency trading, the Canadian dollar rose on continued expectations that Quebec voters would reject secession in a referendum at the end of the month. The Canadian dollar rose to 75.11 United States cents, from 74.85 on Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (91%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (77%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN NBD BANK NA (INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA) (56%); GROUP OF SEVEN (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN GROUP OF SEVEN (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN; JAPAN; CANADA (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (77%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); US DOLLAR (92%); GERMAN MARK (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); BRITISH POUND (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RESIGNATIONS (63%); REFERENDUMS (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%); 

PERSON: ALAIN JUPPE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1995



146 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Treasuries End the Day Mainly Flat

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Treasury prices barely moved yesterday as the report on September employment did little to change the market's outlook on the economy and interest rates.
The Labor Department reported that 121,000 jobs were added to the nation's payrolls last month, while the unemployment rate remained at 5.6 percent. Economists had expected payrolls to gain 161,000 for the month. 
 "If you had a bullish or a bearish view, you can still defend it within the framework of the data we've had," said Matthew Alexy, chief market strategist at CS First Boston in New York.
The price of the 30-year bond fell 5/32 of a percentage point, to 105 29/32 , leaving its yield unchanged at 6.42 percent. Trading volume was lighter than usual, with many traders preparing for a long holiday weekend. The Public Securities Association, a trade group, has recommended that the cash market in Treasury securities be closed on Monday in observance of Columbus Day.
Trading was volatile in the morning. Prices first rose, then fell sharply as some traders concluded that elements of the Labor Department's report could portend a return to brisk economic growth.
"The component that spooked the market was a larger-than- expected increase in average hourly earnings," said Steven Saslow, an executive managing director at HSBC Securities in New York.
The Labor Department said average hourly earnings jumped 4 cents, to $11.52. Higher wages can help accelerate inflation. "Had it not been for that, the market would be trading better," Mr. Saslow said.
But investors later saw new reasons to believe inflation was not about to pick up speed. The Center for International Business Cycle Research at Columbia University said its preliminary leading inflation index fell to 106.2 last month from an unrevised 106.5 in August.
"You've got the best of all possible worlds: low inflation and moderate economic growth that leaves the Fed room to ease" interest rates, said Frank Rachwalski, who manages $12 billion of fixed-income securities at Kemper Financial Services in Chicago.
In the corporate market, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation and the Norwest Corporation took advantage of the recent drop in government bond yields to lock in low rates on $700 million of new debt.
In the largest sale yesterday, G.M.A.C. sold $500 million of seven-year notes at a price to yield 6.657 percent, or 68.7 basis points more than the seven-year Treasury note. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
The company would have had to pay a yield of almost 7 percent on the notes if it sold them two months ago at the same spread, or yield premium.
Norwest sold $200 million of five-year notes, just a day after it raised $250 million by selling three-year notes.
Meanwhile, bonds of the Niagara Mohawk Corporation lost value after the utility proposed forming a separate company to free itself from New York State regulation over the generation of power.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (63%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (63%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (63%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (63%); KEMPER FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (52%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (56%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (56%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: STEVEN SASLOW (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1995



147 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: THE POPE'S VISIT: THE MAYOR;
Unusually Gentle Giuliani Appears Moved by Pope

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

 BODY:
The last time Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani saw the Pope, his mayoral aspirations were about as far away as his seat. It was in 1979, 10 years before Mr. Giuliani first ran for office, and though he was only able to glimpse John Paul II from the back of St. Patrick's Cathedral, he says he counted the moment among the highlights of his life.
Sixteen years later, with front-row seats for the papal events this week, the Mayor, a Roman Catholic, has had the privilege of being an official host to his spiritual leader. And it has clearly moved him deeply, producing words and phrases -- "gentle," "beautiful," "blessed" -- that the public is not accustomed to hearing from a man often criticized as lacking in warmth. 
 Mr. Giuliani's visibility during the papal visit has been relatively low-key, in part because there have been few events where politicians could take an active part. He has attended all the Pope's speeches and Masses in New York, though his only private meeting took place when the Pope first arrived in the city at the 34th Street Heliport on Wednesday night.
The Mayor has, however, taken pains to identify himself with the Pope's message of tolerance. On Thursday, after reporters besieged him with questions about the search for a schools chancellor, Mr. Giuliani chided them for dwelling on the "temporal," and let loose with an unbidden analysis of the Pope's address to the United Nations, a speech he called "probably the most insightful and wisest speech that I've ever heard anyone give."
John Paul II's call to reject the anti-immigrant spirit that is rising in political circles "discusses a topic I've talked about a lot, and better than I've ever seen anyone discuss it," said the Mayor, who has himself been vocal in breaking with the leadership of his own Republican Party on immigration issues.
"I think his words on immigration come at a time when America really needs that advice: that people shouldn't be afraid of differences," Mr. Giuliani said. "And I can't think of a better time in which someone could bring that message to America, when there's so much fear of people that are different now."
But the Mayor, whose administration plans to remove 100,000 New Yorkers from the welfare rolls by the end of the year by tightening eligibility, did not mention the Pope's expressed fear that America is "becoming less sensitive, less caring toward the poor, the weak, the stranger, the needy."
Mr. Giuliani has also tried to put the papal visit in the context of what he sees as the city's new, upbeat spirit, an urban cheeriness for which he takes responsibility, but one that polls show is not shared by every New Yorker. The concept is best embodied by the "Capital of the World" campaign that the Mayor has waged in pulpits ranging from the United Nations to the David Letterman show, and the Pope's visit has provided him with a theme happy in its coincidence.
"This is a cleaner city, this is a city that's having a real revival of its spirit, and the presence of the Pope will, I think, add to that, in a very, very significant way," the Mayor said on Tuesday.
But though Mr. Giuliani knows to the dollar the estimated economic impact of the visit, the Pope's presence clearly resonates most strongly with him on a personal level. Yesterday he took time to show reporters the medals that the Pope had given him. On Wednesday, he took his daughter, Caroline, and son, Andrew, to meet the Pope at the heliport, and his ecstatic description of the Pope's physical contact with his children seemed genuine and unforced.
"He's a gentle and a beautiful man, and when you're next to him and near him you feel some of what you see on television," the Mayor said. "You see on television the kind of beauty and charisma that he projects, and when you're right next to him you actually feel it. It's really remarkable."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 8, 1995, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about Mayor Rudolph W. Giuiliani's reaction to the visit of Pope John Paul II misidentified the heliport where the Mayor greeted the Pope on Wednesday. It was the Downtown Heliport, not the 34th Street Heliport.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); POLITICS (72%); IMMIGRATION (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); POPE (JOHN PAUL II); FIRESTONE, DAVID RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1995



148 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Homes for the Invisible

BYLINE: By Margaret Morton; Margaret Morton, a photographer, is the author of the forthcoming "The Tunnel: The Underground Homeless of New York City."

 BODY:
A quiet victory is taking place beneath the streets of New York City. Homeless people who for 20 years have occupied a two-mile stretch of unused railroad line under Riverside Park are packing up their belongings and moving into permanent housing. Their departure is a triumph of decency, but it also points out the dilemmas arising from government plans to help the homeless.
The so-called mole people began seeking refuge in the abandoned tunnel in the mid-1970's and lived there largely undisturbed until 1991, when Amtrak workers routed 50 people living in a labyrinthine village made of scavenged materials. Over the past four years, the population has grown back to its former size as people have been swept from encampments at the 72d Street overpass and the 79th Street rotunda. 
 Tunnel residents said that living underground seemed a reasonable choice. The city's shelters are dangerous, they said, and, despite the need to transport water and ward off rats, the tunnel offered protection from the elements and a sense of privacy and security.
Most of the tunnel people supported themselves by recycling cans or selling books and clothing on the street. Some got occasional odd jobs at Upper West Side apartment buildings.
But this existence changed over the summer when the tunnel entrances were sealed off by the Amtrak police, who threatened to arrest for trespassing anyone who stayed. Amtrak claimed that the encampment was a fire hazard.
What could have blown into a needless confrontation -- yet another incident of homeless people scrambling frantically before police in a desperate attempt to salvage belongings and pets -- was averted by the Coalition for the Homeless, a statewide nonprofit organization.
According to Mary Brosnahan, the director of the coalition, Amtrak reluctantly agreed to delay evicting the residents temporarily while the coalition looked into a languishing $9 million Federal program set up to provide vouchers for permanent housing to people living underground.
Although the program, created by Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Henry G. Cisneros after he toured the city's subway system, had been in place since November 1994, only two of its 250 vouchers had been used by this summer. Ms. Brosnahan said that most of the non-profit groups that administer the vouchers have been hesitant to give them to people in need of drug treatment and mental-health counseling, since these services are not included in the Federal program.
Nevertheless, workers from the coalition and other groups went into the tunnel to help residents get vouchers and also to place them in treatment programs. Seven people have vouchers, which can be used to get apartments in privately owned buildings, and two dozen more should be getting their vouchers soon.
That the tunnel people needed a special Federal program to get homes also reflects a general problem with our relief system: virtually all housing is held for families. Of course, children should get priority. But this program is one of very few that addresses the needs of single adults.
It is true that this voucher program put the needs of those living undergound ahead of those of people in less extreme situations. But it demonstrates how even those most adamant about spurning the shelter system will accept suitable housing -- something with economic benefits for the city. It costs more than $20,000 a year to keep a person in a cot on an armory floor. It costs about $12,000 to keep that person in the kind of supported housing being made available to the tunnel people.
There are solutions to homelessness. The people leaving the tunnel are proof.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Notes from the underground: For a community of 50, plus cats, the tunnel under Riverside Park provided shelter and privacy. (Photographs by Margaret Morton/Lowinsky Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COALITION FOR THE HOMELESS NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COALITION FOR THE HOMELESS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; RAILROADS HOMELESSNESS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EVICTION (78%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); FAMILY (77%); MAMMALS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); CATS (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); CITIES (73%); CHILDREN (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (71%); MENTAL HEALTH (60%); POPULATION GROWTH (57%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (54%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (50%); 

PERSON: MORTON, MARGARET MARY BROSNAHAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1995



149 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 32; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye, Dali

BYLINE: By Deborah Solomon; Deborah Solomon, the art critic of The Wall Street Journal, is completing a biography of the artist Joseph Cornell.

 BODY:

SURREALISM IN EXILE
And the Beginning of the New York School.
By Martica Sawin.
Illustrated. 466 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
The MIT Press. $45. 
 NO decade in American art was livelier than the 1940's, in part because its most influential figures were not American at all. Rather they were French Surrealists, who sailed to New York as refugees from World War II and stayed on until the war's end. Moving into fifth-floor walk-ups in Greenwich Village or run-down farmhouses in western Connecticut, the exiled artists grumbled about the New World, which seemed to lack everything from a good loaf of bread and a comfortable cafe to any semblance of high culture.
By the time the emigres sailed back to Europe, however, something astonishing had happened. An American avant-garde led by Jackson Pollock and Willem de Kooning had appeared as if out of nowhere and was about to shift the capital of contemporary art from Paris to New York. This fabled turn of events -- with its grand, against-all-odds finale -- has been recounted many times. Yet Martica Sawin's "Surrealism in Exile" brings something fresh to the drama by focusing on the picturesque moment when the French avant-garde was dropped into the wilds of the New York art scene and made the acquaintance of the woolly natives.
Not all avant-gardes are alike. When Ms. Sawin's story begins, Pollock and the future Abstract Expressionists were barely 30, still unknown and accustomed to meeting over nickel cups of coffee in cafeterias. They had come of age during the Depression and were trying to find an alternative to the pictures of hillbillies and downtrodden workers that then passed for serious American art. The Surrealists, by contrast, were older and world famous, urbane cafe philosophers whose work was a visual riff on Freud. They believed they had made not just pictures but a daredevil leap down through the strata of the unconscious -- never mind that an art of dreams and buried desires is as ancient as art itself.
Surrealism, of course, had started years before its members were transplanted to New York. Founded in Paris in the early 20's by the poet Andre Breton, it began as a literary movement but made its greatest mark in the visual arts. Salvador Dali's melting watches, Giorgio de Chirico's eerily emptied-out plazas, Rene Magritte's floating men in bowler hats -- these were the icons of Surrealism, and they came accompanied by noisy antics. Through the 30's, the movement's heyday, the Surrealists threw costume balls, published journals and excommunicated wayward members with a style of cliquishness more befitting high school seniors.
Their party had a solemn ending. With the Nazi invasion of Paris in the spring of 1940, most of the Surrealist contingent -- including Dali, Max Ernst, Andre Masson, Yves Tanguy, Roberto Matta, Kurt Seligmann and Breton himself -- took refuge in the United States. But artist-rebels, much like skinny fashion models, tend to do best in their youth, and the Surrealists' period of exile only saddled the movement with the sag of middle age. Its creative energies dwindled, and the group activities of Paris could not be sustained in New York. Left with nothing to do, the once scandalous Surrealists went to afternoon movies -- and the most radical break they attempted was probably with their wives. Before heading home, most of them changed partners.
American artists, in the meantime, felt invigorated by the presence of the refugees. Pollock, Mark Rothko and Robert Motherwell, among others, had previously given little thought to Surrealism, figuring it went no deeper than the slick tricks of Dali. But now they looked more closely. After meeting the exiles at polyglot parties and at Peggy Guggenheim's gallery, Art of This Century, they came to appreciate the side of Surrealism devoted to "psychic automatism" and other techniques for spontaneous art making. It was the very catalyst they needed to take their own work beyond the cornball style of social realism. By the end of the decade, Pollock's "drip" paintings, Barnett Newman's "zip" paintings and Rothko's fuzzy clouds of color would be signaling the arrival of Abstract Expressionism -- an all-too-nebulous name for a movement that Motherwell once remarked should instead have been called "abstract surrealism."
Ms. Sawin, an independent art historian who taught for three decades at the Parsons School of Design, tells her story in a straightforward style. Her book is lucid, informative and illustrated with all the right photographs. She bends not an inch toward the current fashion for revisionist art history, ignoring the claim, popular in academia, that Abstract Expressionism owes its success solely to America's postwar economic dominance. And, happily, the word "gender" is nowhere in her book.
On the other hand, "Surrealism in Exile" is not nearly as engaging as one might have hoped. Ms. Sawin skimps on anecdotes, overloads her narrative with leaden analyses of minor paintings and fails to imbue the figures in her story with the vividness they deserve. In a typically ungainly sentence she observes, "During the summer of 1938, Peggy Guggenheim swept the remarkable Yves Tanguy, with his polished dome of a head sprouting a few unruly tufts of hair, off to England." We never find out why Tanguy was "remarkable" -- a cliche, anyway -- and are left to assume that the artist's distinction resided in his hair. Moreover, as described by Ms. Sawin, Tanguy's coiffure sounds like that of Bozo the Clown, though the artist in fact (as photographs in the book reveal) suffered from baldness of the most unspectacular variety.
 EVEN more problematic is Ms. Sawin's tendency to interpret art history with a connect-the-dots literalness. While deftly mapping the points of contact between American artists and their European visitors, she all but overlooks the larger cargo of styles and "isms" that arrived in New York unescorted by the artists who conceived them. Picasso, Matisse and Miro remained in Europe during the war years, finding safety inside the armor of their reputations. Yet even from a distance, their pioneering efforts in abstract painting shaped the New York scene more profoundly than the essentially academic and illustrative work purveyed by most of the Surrealists who migrated here.
For all its flaws, "Surrealism in Exile" returns us to a rich period in American art. How should that period be remembered? For years we've been taught to see Abstract Expressionism as a kind of morality play set amid the quaintly bohemian squalor of Eighth Street: a drama about a group of artists who, though hungry and cold and dressed in tatters, defeated the evil forces of philistinism and prepared the way for "the triumph of American painting," to borrow the title of Irving Sandler's perennial campus best seller.
Yet after reading Ms. Sawin's book, with its emphasis on the experiences of the refugees, I wondered if there wasn't also a comic element to this drama. True, Abstract Expressionism had its brave insurgents. But it also had something of the spirit of a Marx Brothers caper, complete with young troublemakers (the Americans), cranky elders (the Surrealists) and a madcap topsy-turvy script. It's amusing to think of the Surrealists, with their polished manners and mandarin tastes, roaming New York as the self-appointed aristocrats of culture. For all their vast sophistication, they could not see the revolution taking place right beneath their turned-up noses, never guessing that they represented the European avant-garde in its final moment.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A photograph by George Platt Lynes for an "Artists in Exile" exhibition in New York in 1942. Front row, from left: Roberto Matta Echaurren, Ossip Zadkine, Yves Tanguy, Max Ernst, Marc Chagall, Fernand Leger. Back row: Andre Breton, Piet Mondrian, Andre Masson, Amedee Ozenfant, Jacques Lipchits, Pavel Tchelitchew, Kurt Seligman, Eugene Berman. (MUSEUM OF MODERN ART/FROM "SURREALISM IN EXILE")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SURREALISM IN EXILE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW WORLD LIBRARY (57%); NEW WORLD WINES (57%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (57%); NEW YORK SCHOOL (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK SCHOOL (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; ART BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WORLD WAR II (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); LITERATURE (84%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); REFUGEES (72%); VISUAL ARTS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); WRITERS (69%); 

PERSON: SOLOMON, DEBORAH; SAWIN, MARTICA WILLEM DE KOONING (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



150 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 38; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: October 8, 1995

 BODY:

 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction	 	 	 	 	 1		1	THE LOST WORLD, by Michael Crichton. (Knopf, $25.95.) Scientists visit a Costa Rican jungle that is the breeding ground of dinosaurs; a sequel to "Jurassic Park."	 	 	 	 	 2	2	3	MORNING, NOON, AND NIGHT, by Sidney Sheldon. (Morrow, $24.) The mysterious drowning of a respected tycoon leads to the revelation of a tangle of scandals.	 	 	 	 	 3	1	3	THE HORSE WHISPERER, by Nicholas Evans. (Delacorte, $23.95.) A troubled woman seeks solace for herself, her daughter and their horse from a wrangler in Montana.	 	 	 	 	 4	4	4	"L" IS FOR LAWLESS, by Sue Grafton. (Holt, $24.) Kinsey Millhone on the trail of the cash and the culprits involved in a bank heist perpetrated decades ago.	 	 	 	 	 5	3	5	COMING HOME, by Rosamunde Pilcher. (Dunne/St. Martin's, $25.95.) A British woman comes of age during World War II.	 	 	 	 	 6	8	4	A PLACE CALLED FREEDOM, by Ken Follett. (Crown, $25.) Two Scots, fleeing the injustices of their native land, find romance and freedom in 18th-century America.	 	 	 	 	 7	5	2	COME TO GRIEF, by Dick Francis. (Putnam, $23.95.) Sid Halley, champion jockey turned investigator, probes the suicide of a revered racing figure's mother.	 	 	 	 	 8	10	4	DEAD MAN'S WALK, by Larry McMurtry. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) The adventures of two young Texas Rangers; a prequel to "Lonesome Dove."	 	 	 	 	 9	6	13	BEACH MUSIC, by Pat Conroy. (Talese/Doubleday, $27.50.) An American living in Rome returns to South Carolina and tries to cope with his past.	 	 	 	 	 10	9	84	THE CELESTINE PROPHECY, by James Redfield. (Warner, $17.95.) An ancient manuscript, found in Peru, provides insights into achieving a fulfilling life.	 	 	 	 	 11	7	8	FROM POTTER'S FIELD, by Patricia Cornwell. (Scribner, $24.) Dr. Kay Scarpetta tracks a serial killer in Central Park.	 	 	 	 	 12	11	11	MEMNOCH THE DEVIL, by Anne Rice. (Knopf, $25.) The vampire Lestat is snatched from the world by a mysterious adversary who claims to be the Devil.	 	 	 	 	 13	12	24	THE RAINMAKER, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $25.95.) A young man barely out of law school tries to expose a corporation's multibillion-dollar scam.	 	 	 	 	 14	13	6	STORMY WEATHER, by Carl Hiaasen. (Knopf, $24.) A hurricane sweeping across southern Florida leaves in its wake troubled tourists and con artists.	 	 	 	 	 15	15	164	THE BRIDGES OF MADISON COUNTY, by Robert James Waller. (Warner, $17.95.) A photographer and a farmer's lonely wife in Iowa.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction	 	 	 	 	 1	1	2	MY AMERICAN JOURNEY, by Colin L. Powell with Joseph E. Persico. (Random House, $25.95.) The autobiography of the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. (+)	 	 	 	 	 2	2	5	MY POINT ... AND I DO HAVE ONE, by Ellen DeGeneres. (Bantam, $19.95.) Observations on life and the pursuit of happiness by the television star and stand-up comedian.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	16	A GOOD WALK SPOILED, by John Feinstein. (Little, Brown, $23.95.) A sportswriter reports on the P.G.A. Tour in 1993 and 1994. (+)	 	 	 	 	 4	11	4	I'M ONLY ONE MAN! by Regis Philbin with Bill Zehme. (Hyperion, $22.95.) A memoir by the co-host of "Live With Regis and Kathie Lee."	 	 	 	 	 5	4	83	MIDNIGHT IN THE GARDEN OF GOOD AND EVIL, by John Berendt. (Random House, $23.) The mysterious death of a young man in Savannah, Ga.	 	 	 	 	 6	10	9	MY OLD MAN AND THE SEA, by David Hays and Daniel Hays. (Algonquin, $19.95.) A sailing yarn about a father-and-son voyage from Connecticut around Cape Horn.	 	 	 	 	 7	7	19	SPONTANEOUS HEALING, by Andrew Weil. (Knopf, $23.) A physician explains the ways in which the body heals itself. (+)	 	 	 	 	 8	12	5	BUFFETT, by Roger Lowenstein. (Random House, $27.50.) The life of Warren Buffett and how he became one of the country's richest men. (+)	 	 	 	 	 9		1	EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE, by Daniel Goleman. (Bantam, $23.95.) Factors other than I.Q. that contribute to a successful and happy life.	 	 	 	 	 10	5	41	SISTERS. Essays by Carol Saline. Photographs by Sharon J. Wohlmuth. (Running Press, $27.50.) The relationships of 36 sets of sisters of varied callings and backgrounds.	 	 	 	 	 11		1	AN UNQUIET MIND, by Kay Redfield Jamison. (Knopf, $22.) A professor of psychiatry recalls her struggle with manic depression.	 	 	 	 	 12	6	16	NEW PASSAGES, by Gail Sheehy. (Random House, $25.) How changing social conditions and longer life expectancies are affecting our lives.	 	 	 	 	 13	9	11	SLEEPERS, by Lorenzo Carcaterra. (Ballantine, $23.) The true story, the narrator claims, of four boys in a reformatory and the revenge they later take.	 	 	 	 	 14	13	7	BEYOND ALL REASON, by David Smith with Carol Calef. (Kensington, $18.95.) The former husband of Susan Smith, the woman convicted of killing their two sons, tells of their life together.	 	 	 	 	 15		5	DARK SUN, by Richard Rhodes. (Simon & Schuster, $32.50.) How and why the hydrogen bomb was made.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous	 	 	 	 	 1	1	124	MEN ARE FROM MARS, WOMEN ARE FROM VENUS, by John Gray. (HarperCollins, $23.) Relationships. (+)	 	 	 	 	 2	2	29	THE SEVEN SPIRITUAL LAWS OF SUCCESS, by Deepak Chopra. (Amber-Allen/New World Library, $14.) How to "generate wealth in all its forms." (+)	 	 	 	 	 3	4	3	THE MELATONIN MIRACLE, by Walter Pierpaoli and William Regelson with Carol Colman. (Simon & Schuster, $21.) Making use of a hormone to slow down aging.	 	 	 	 	 4	3	8	STOP AGING NOW! by Jean Carper. (HarperCollins, $24.) Ways to combat aging and resist disease. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales figures, for the week ending Sept. 23, at 3,050 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 28,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders for a book.
And Bear in Mind
(Editor's Choices of other recent books of particular interest)
 
THE BRONTES, by Juliet Barker. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $35.) A whopping compilation that aims to do justice to the whole family, dispelling its myth as a caldron of cranks and loonies that squeezed out the occasional great novel whenever the pressure got too high to bear.
 
THE CHESS GARDEN: Or, The Twilight Letters of Gustav Uyterhoeven, by Brooks Hansen. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.) An improbable, brilliant novel about a 19th-century Dutch physician who embodies many spiritual and scientific disturbances of then and now; he's a vitalist, a mystic and an enemy of determinism.
 
CITY LIFE: Urban Expectations in a New World, by Witold Rybczynski. (Scribner, $23.) Why our cities aren't like Paris, explained by a witty and subtle architect; mainly, their democratic vistas give no special focus to kings or bishops.
 
THE END OF AFFLUENCE: The Causes and Consequences of America's Economic Dilemma, by Jeffrey Madrick. (Random House, $22.) A journalist turned economic historian argues that historical changes have killed the prosperity many Americans remember, and that no economic or political nostrums can bring it back.
 
FIRE IN THE MIND: Science, Faith and the Search for Order, by George Johnson. (Knopf, $27.50.) Careful, balanced explorations of the places where scientific understanding of this extremely strange universe and religious and philosophical perceptions of it may illuminate each other.
 
A GOOD LIFE: Newspapering and Other Adventures, by Ben Bradlee. (Simon & Schuster, $27.50.) A memoir by the former editor of The Washington Post, who was, during Watergate, the world's most famous editor; his comfortable prose makes his accomplishments look easy.
 
MRS. TED BLISS, by Stanley Elkin. (Hyperion, $22.95.) The title character of the prodigious Elkin's final novel, an elderly widow in Miami, is occupied with death, disability and a million other subjects that fill her life with activity but not action; as for plot, don't ask.
 
PANAMA, by Eric Zencey. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) Henry Adams (yes, the Henry Adams) turns private investigator in this complex, ambitious detective novel, which starts in Panama but moves to the Paris of the 1890's.
 
PRAIRIE REUNION, by Barbara J. Scot. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $21.) This engaging, thoughtful memoir of a return to the scene of the author's Iowa childhood confirms that places and people have the power to change gracefully if they try.
 
WILLIAM MORRIS: A Life for Our Time, by Fiona MacCarthy. (Knopf, $45.) A witty, shrewd, learned full-scale biography of the great 19th-century English designer whose amazing versatility (propaganda was one of his skills) has always made his center hard to find.
 
WRITING HOME, by Alan Bennett. (Random House, $25.) Notes, prefaces, diary entries and fugitive pieces, charming and insightful, by the slyest of contemporary British playwrights.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); COSTA RICA (73%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (78%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); COSTA RICA (73%); TEXAS, USA (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); SUICIDE (69%); BANK ROBBERY (67%); MURDER (63%); HOMICIDE (63%); WORLD WAR II (51%); 

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



151 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 6; Page 66; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: How I'd Spend $100

BYLINE: By NEAL KARLEN 

 BODY:
Numbers can melt into meaninglessness inside Minnesota's Mall of America, a coliseum of consumerism encompassing 78 acres and more than 400 stores. The fantasy of better living through buying is mirrored in the mall's advertising jingle: "You can have it all!"
But Rob Mathewson, 8, is contemplating the sad fact that he can't nearly have it all, inside Field of Dreams, a sports memorabilia store. His entire wad is only $100. Rob tries to stay focused amid displays bearing an autographed Babe Ruth baseball ($7,500) and a mint 1955 Sandy Koufax rookie card ($1,250). "These are hard choices," he says, running through the math. 
 Rob decides to plow $50 into a baseball and a football, both autographed. It doesn't seem to matter whose signatures are on the balls as long as they are celebrated. "I'm happy," Rob says, filling out his list with a $40 dog and $10 for a set of Magic cards. "I guess this is what I can afford."
He is one of a dozen children who happen to be in the mall on this late afternoon and agree to take part in a pretend shopping spree, filling out a wish list itemizing how they would spend 100 bucks. It's an unscientific survey seeking clues to some of the dreams, priorities and arithmetic abilities of tomorrow's adults. Are they greedy or selfish? Do they prefer goods to services? Are they any smarter with their dough than their parents?
Sometimes. A surprising number of children display the kind of economic foresight thought to be absent among the younger siblings of the Beavis and Butt-head generation. Shane O'Neil, 10, spends several minutes discussing with his brothers the best stocks to buy with the $20 he's set aside for investment.
"I've been reading up, and I think I'll have to go with California growth stocks," Shane says, crouching on the floor of the Enchanted Tales toy store. The rest goes for in-line skates.
Almost a third of the children say they would save some of their money; Molly Dworsky, 8, puts away $99 for college and a house, rewarding herself only with a $1 cookie. (Reconsidering, she decides to spend $69 more.) Similarly, Julia Brenner, who is 6 but likes to think of herself as 7, says she'd "save all the money, until I have 200 million thousand dollars, and then I can buy everything!" Then, in a split-second leap from existential longings to here-and-now needs, she adds, "First I'd like a baby brother, and then a new Game Boy game."
Rob Mathewson is still laboring over his choices inside the sports store. Pressed to give actual names of players he'd like on the balls he's requested, he scans the shelves for likely heroes. "O.K.," he says. "I'll get a Ken Griffey Jr. signed baseball and a Steve Young autographed football."
Sadly, the clerk informs Rob, the football sells for $280, while the Ken Griffey ball alone would eat up almost the entire $100. Rob holds up his hands like Tevye and walks out of the store, smiling. He can't have it all, but for a moment, on paper, it was enough. By NEAL KARLEN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MALL OF AMERICA (BLOOMINGTON, MINN)

ORGANIZATION: MALL OF AMERICA (BLOOMINGTON, MINN)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MINNESOTA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; SHOPPING CENTERS; SURVEYS AND SERIES STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); COLLECTORS SHOPS (78%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (78%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (78%); BASEBALL (76%); TOYS & GAMES (61%); 

PERSON: KARLEN, NEAL ROB MATHEWSON (92%); KEN GRIFFEY JR (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



152 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 6; Page 58; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4357 words

HEADLINE: The Society That Pretends to Love Children

BYLINE: By ROGER ROSENBLATT; Roger Rosenblatt is a contributing writer for the Magazine. His last article described Richard Snyder's return to the publishing world.

 BODY:
Henry will not face me. We sit close together on small plastic chairs in a classroom at P.S. 314, an elementary school in the Sunset Park area of Brooklyn, where he works with small children in a summer camp. Our knees, drawn high because we are sitting on the low chairs, almost touch. Still, Henry angles his body so that he shows me only his profile. If he turns toward me briefly and catches my eye, he immediately turns away again and gazes out the large schoolroom window at kids on a stoop across the street.
His neighborhood, Sunset Park, consists of approximately 110,000 people, most of them poor, with a per capita income of $11,115. A quarter of the residents have incomes below the poverty line. They represent a variety of backgrounds -- Puerto Rican, African-American, Dominican, Mexican, Jordanian, Pakistani, Chinese, Korean and Vietnamese. These groups are the latest to populate Sunset Park. They follow the Irish, Finns, Swedes, Norwegians, Poles and Italians of the late 19th century, and the Greeks, Russians and Jews of the early 20th. The first area residents were the Dutch and the English, who established farms where the Canarsie Indians had lived. 
 A little over a mile wide and 2.6 miles long, the area lies between middle-class Bay Ridge to the south and gentrified Park Slope to the north. The rectangle of the neighborhood slopes down from the high ridge at Eighth Avenue to the east to Upper New York Bay, where the Statue of Liberty rises. At the top of the ridge is Sunset Park itself -- an 18-acre public park with old trees and a W.P.A. swimming pool. On the grid of narrow streets and wide avenues between the ridge and the bay lie two- and three-story brownstones with attractive cornices; brick-and-masonry houses with little gardens in the front, where corn is sometimes grown, and many rows of drab no-color tenements. Henry lives in one of these. His home is near Third Avenue, which is close to the water, and is shadowed by the Gowanus Expressway, one of the highways built by Robert Moses to carry white people away from places like Sunset Park.
Henry is 16, tall for his age at about 6 foot 1. His skin is a dull, dark brown; antiperspirant under his arms foams white against it. His hair is spun into curlicues. He rarely smiles, though when he does, he looks warm and welcoming -- in contrast to his usual self-concealing blankness. He is sleepy this morning. He yawns frequently, and fully, his mouth wide open like a baby's.
"What else have you seen?" I ask him. He is talking about life on the streets.
"I saw a man throw a telephone out the window," he says. "It hit a baby in a carriage. It nearly killed her. So her father ran up the stairs, and he grabbed the man who threw the phone, and he cut him." He traces a line across his throat with his index finger. "He lived, but he's got this necklace now."
"Did you know the men involved?" I ask him.
"I knew the man who threw the phone," he says. "He's my mother's boyfriend."
"Why did he do that?"
"He was drunk, crazy." He shrugs to indicate that the behavior is normal for his mother's boyfriend.
"What did you do when the baby's father slit his throat?" I ask.
"I was happy," Henry says. "I laughed when he did it. I even testified against the boyfriend in court. My mother was mad. She's always mad at me." He gives me a glance, then turns his head to the side. "That was when things really blew up at home. So I went to the Center for Family Life and told Jennifer. She's been everything to me." He says this without emotion. "She makes me think about what I do."
"What about your mother?"
"She screams. Says I'm the Devil. Calls me stupid and retarded. She says I'm bad. I am bad." He holds his head down. "I hang out. I write up -- you know? -- do graffiti. I fight, maybe less now, but I used to fight all the time. When I start fighting, it's like seek and destroy. You start with me and you're the enemy. Nobody else in sight. You my spotlight, my way out. You the exit door."
"The exit door from what?" He does not answer. "Are other grown-ups in your life good to you? Teachers?"
"Some are O.K.," he says. "I had a teacher tell me: 'I don't care if you come to class or not. I get paid anyway.' "
"Police?"
"When I got arrested for writing up, a woman cop told me she hopes they send me to jail."
"Ministers? Priests?" I ask.
He shakes his head. "I don't have religion."
"The Mayor? The Governor? The President?" I am speaking a foreign language. "Are there any grown-ups who help you?"
"Jennifer," he says softly. "People at the center."
I ask him: "Henry, do you think that your mother loves you?"
"She pretends to love me," he says.
 The fact that Henry is poor and black, and that he lives in violent circumstances, makes him an unusually dramatic and sadly familiar example of the mistreatment of American children. But, for what he represents, he could be any child, anywhere in the country. I could have the wrong Henry. Henry is not a kid from Sunset Park, Brooklyn. He is a rich, white, 16-year-old senior at Groton, who has just cheated on his Greek exam because his father, a true-blue Yalie, yells at him constantly for being stupid and retarded and for not being good enough to get into Yale.
No, that isn't Henry, either. Henry is a 12-year-old girl from Corpus Christi, Tex., who is trying to get pregnant "to have love in my life." Or the boy whose father set him on fire to strike back at his wife in a custody case. Or those teen-agers who made a suicide pact in New Jersey. Henry is a 14-year-old girl from Aspen, Colo., who wears all that oversize clothing and who heads for the ladies' room immediately after meals. He is the toddler in Los Angeles whose grandmother punished him by holding a pillow over his head and squeezing him between a table and a sofa. His last words were "Me no breathe."
Here's Henry now. That's his key in the door. His folks are both at work and will be out till midnight. He has the house to himself. He pours himself a Coors, calls his girlfriend to come over and plunks down in front of the TV to watch the Jenny Jones show bring him a picture of America.
Actually, the Henry of Sunset Park is a bit luckier than the tens of millions of American children, of all economic classes, races and regions, whom the country pretends to love. At least this Henry has an effective local social service agency -- the Center for Family Life to which he referred -- that is devoted to his well-being.
In 1993, according to several child interest groups like the Children's Defense Fund, an estimated three million children were reported to public social service agencies to be suffering from abuse or neglect. Some 1,300 of them died. Approximately half a million children are in foster care or similar substitute homes, an increase of 250,000 since 1986. About 14 million live in poverty. About 100,000 children are homeless. The welfare bill passed overwhelmingly by the Senate last month, ending guaranteed assistance to poor families, should add significantly to the number of children in need.
The American Humane Association reports that since 1988 American teen-age boys are more likely to die from gunshot wounds than from all natural causes combined. Studies of teen-age pregnancy in Seattle and Chicago show that two-thirds of teen-age mothers reported having been sexually abused. Figures on sexual abuse have been disputed as being too high, but even if the true figures are only half of those reported, they are still considerable.
While poor children, black and white, suffer a disproportionate share of ills, the increasing affliction of the American child occurs in rural regions as well as in the cities, and among the middle and upper classes, too. Responses to a survey of girls in grades 6 through 12 in mainly Midwestern states, in 111 communities with populations under 100,000, indicated that by grade nine, one in five girls had been sexually abused. By grade 10, the number was still one in five, but one in three girls had been abused physically, sexually or both. The survey defined physical abuse as an adult causing a scar, bruises, welts, bleeding or a broken bone and sexual abuse as a family member or "someone else" imposing sexual behavior on the child. In 1993, there were 19,466 incidents of child abuse reported to the Iowa Department of Human Services. The advocacy organization, Girls Inc. in Omaha, states that sexual abuse of girls reported in Nebraska (3 in a class of 25) is that of the national average. The abuse of boys is more rarely reported, so the numbers are probably comparable.
Statistics on poor families, like Henry's, are more available than those on better-off families; welfare agencies rarely invade the homes of the rich. But the mistreatment of children is also a middle-class problem. A random sampling of adolescents in Minnesota found that 6 percent of middle- or middle-to-high-income families had at least one child in alcohol or drug treatment programs by ages 14 to 17. Adolescents in an additional 5 percent of families were using as much alcohol and drugs as the kids who were in treatment.
Middle-class whites like to think that kids with guns are a black or Latino inner-city menace exclusively. But William C. Haynes, juvenile justice director of the Tennessee Commission on Children and Youth, reports that groups of middle-class white kids in Antioch had a gunfight armed with 9-millimeter semiautomatic pistols. Richard Louv, the author of "Childhood's Future," notes that the shooting programs of the 4-H Clubs drew at least 100,000 kids at the end of the 1980's, a tenfold increase since the mid-1980's.
Two middle-class parents who work full time will, naturally, spend less time with their children. In 1976, according to the economist Sylvia Ann Hewlett, author of "When the Bough Breaks," 11 percent of children under the age of 1 year had mothers in the work force. By 1994, the number had risen to 54.5 percent. Another economist, Victor Fuchs, contends that children have lost 10 to 12 hours a week of parental time since 1960 because of the added number of hours that both parents work. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that the average work week was 43.3 hours in 1994, with professional people working an average of 43.8.
At an exhibit of children's artwork at Christie's in New York City last year, paintings were displayed depicting "Images of Mothers and Fathers." One, showing a man with his hands held up in surrender and surrounded by clocks, carried the caption: "This is my father." A ninth grader drew a picture of her mother as a clock.
Neglect is a varied form of abuse and is difficult to pin down. Martha Farrell Erickson of the Children, Youth and Family Consortium at the University of Minnesota reports that 45 percent of child-abuse cases are officially cited as neglect, but "it seems likely that the actual incidence is much higher." Erickson also notes that many neglected children are infants: "Given that neglect is often chronic rather than episodic, these children may grow up thinking this is the way life is."
Violent and destructive behavior by middle-class and upper-middle-class kids -- generally considered to be a consequence of neglect -- is a daily news story. In the placid seaport town of Dartmouth, Mass., in 1993, three teen-agers burst into a high-school classroom, beat a freshman over the head with a baseball bat and stabbed him to death. In Williamson County, Tenn., the richest county in the state, a boy driving the new car that his parents had just bought him shot and killed a horse in a field -- for the fun of it. High-school kids go on destructive binges in Montana and Vermont. In 1989, ABC's television news program, "20/ 20," ran a piece on high-living teen-agers in wealthy Pacific Palisades, Calif., who were lost to drugs and drink. Last year, the network news shows broadcast a video of middle-class teen-agers in Florida on a rampage. They tore apart elegant homes, tortured a dog and cooked a goldfish in the microwave. The teen-agers made the video themselves.
Divorce is not always a destructive event in a child's life, but it is more often so than the divorcing parents care to admit. Fully 40 percent of children living with their mothers do not see their fathers after the breakup. Of the 58 percent of divorced fathers ordered to pay child support, less than two-thirds actually pay in full. One father explained that he could not pay child support because he needed the money to board his two Doberman pinschers. Even when both parents maintain contact with the children, the children can pay penalties. The headmaster of one of New York's distinguished private schools tells of an afternoon when he was summoned to the school lobby, where two parents were shouting and fighting. Each had thought that the coming weekend was the one in which he or she was to take their child. When the headmaster arrived on the scene, the parents were yanking at the child's arms, stretching him between them.
If some wealthier parents are not looking out for their children, they are looking out for themselves. Many young couples simply do not have children, even if they are able to, because a child will cut into their income and their time for self-interested pursuits. Many who do have kids did not really want the responsibility of rearing a human being; they wanted another witty, charming, urbane adult in the house. So neglect was built into their vision of the child in the first place. And, of course, when the child turned out not to be the delightful companion the parents originally had in mind, they abandoned it to "independence."
In "Habits of the Heart," Robert Bellah points out that since 1965, Americans have been hooked on the therapeutic mentality. The social critic Christopher Lasch also concluded that therapy has replaced religion in American adult lives. A guidance counselor in Alabama tells me that a reason many parents do not come home at nights to their children is that they are taking therapy classes to help them be better parents.
The neglect and abuse of children is hardly new in American history. One may go back through the 350 years represented by the different inhabitants of Sunset Park alone, starting with the Puritans, and discover an unbroken pattern of beating children, psychologically tormenting children, imposing one or another form of miseducation on them, forcing them into labor, giving them too little freedom, or giving them too much. Every major intellectual influence on American children, from Locke to Spock, has wound up distorting their lives. In 1646, "stubborn child laws" were enacted (though never enforced) in Massachusetts, which provided the death penalty for a rebellious son. In the 1850's, the Rev. Samuel Arnold of Ossippee, N.H., nearly beat his adopted son to death because the boy failed to pronounce the words "utter" and "gutter" to the reverend's satisfaction. In 1985, a Sunset Park father, who wanted to show off how smart his 6-year-old son was, forced him to stand and read aloud from a book. When the boy mispronounced the word "bite" as "bit," his father slammed his fist on the kitchen table and made him read the book from the beginning.
The difference between past and present abuses is that today's children are not assaulted by one or two destructive forces. They are assaulted by everything, all at once. Individual parents may love their kids, but the society seems to wish the children disappeared. It is as if children are seen as interfering with life, rather than as contributing to it or perpetuating it. Modern living is too difficult, too much to handle or to bear. Children get in the way of one's pleasure or of one's survival. They compete for one's money, resources and affections. Worse, like Henry, they remind adults of their incapacity to love them.
 "WHAT IS TO BE DONE?" I ask Mary Paul and Geraldine, the two Sisters of the Good Shepherd who founded the Center for Family Life 17 years ago. The center, which is a lay institution, addresses all sources of difficulty for children, works with the family members involved, and embraces every facet of life in the neighborhood. Besides counseling, it provides an employment agency, an emergency food program, advocacy and legal services, a theater program, a literacy program, summer camps like the one in which Henry works, day care for school-age children and a neighborhood foster-care program. The foster families are selected within the community of the original family, so that the children do not lose touch with their homes.
"Better ask what is not to be done," Mary Paul says. "People do have positive goals in regard to children. But somehow these goals become subverted because, paradoxically, they become overcommitted to whatever they are doing. Life ceases to be an adaptation and an exchange with an outside environment. We become mere doers. We do and we do and we do, and we grow to be more narrowly focused and more narrowly driven. Soon we lose energy and we fail. It's the law of entropy."
"Does that happen in education?" I ask.
"Absolutely," she says. "A few years ago, schools in places like New York started out being attentive to the needs of children in a multicultural environment. Perfectly sensible, given all the new immigrant groups who were coming in. Then people became overcommitted to that one goal of multiculturalism. They forgot about what else was worthwhile in education. They thought that education was about self-esteem. They came up with the idea of teaching bilingualism, which serves no useful purpose at all for children trying to make it in American society. In Sunset Park, bilingualism is promoted solely to get patronage jobs for Spanish teachers."
"The reason we instituted neighborhood foster care," says Geraldine, "is that child welfare in this country -- the Child Welfare Administration in particular -- focuses only on the well-being of the child."
"The aim is to remove the child from the original family as far away as possible," Mary Paul says. "Often the taking of children is done abruptly. The C.W.A. will take a child from school because it's easier than confronting the mother. Sometimes children are removed in the middle of the night, with the police in attendance. They'll use even more coercive methods. I cannot stand the violence of it."
Geraldine breaks in. "This is why we began neighborhood foster care in Sunset Park. We've been doing this seven years now, and sometimes we succeed and sometimes not. But even the failures can be a partial success. A child whom we placed in foster care here has a mother who is seriously mentally ill. The woman will stand in the street and scream up at the windows of the little girl's foster parents' house. She will sit in the hallway and bang on the door with her fists all night. And she will not go for treatment. And still the little girl -- because she has been allowed to remain close to her mother -- sees the disease for what it is. She understands. It doesn't make the mother well, but it helps the girl."
"Everyone suffers from tunnel vision," says Mary Paul. "We are in an economic depression right now. All one reads is how strapped city, state and Federal budgets are. Politicians win points by coming up with ways to save the country money. 'We have to reduce the deficit. We have to reduce the national debt.' For whose benefit should we rescue the economy? It is always the children and the grandchildren. Yet how should we save the economy?"
"Take money away from children," Geraldine offers, and laughs.
"Exactly," says Mary Paul. "Take the money from the children even though you are focusing on the children as the reason for rescuing the economy. By this logic, you will amass a fortune as a legacy and, at the same time, kill off the legatees."
"When parents fail their children," says Geraldine, "it is almost always because of an excessive commitment to one or another pursuit. Henry's mother yells at him and degrades him because she thinks that's how to make him toe the mark. And naturally, Henry is angry at her. He's in a constant rage. And he takes out his rage in street fights."
"This is a poor neighborhood," says Mary Paul. "Money drives much of people's behavior. The rage of parents who have sacrificed so much and invested so much and then nothing Continued on page 106
works . . . they begin to see the child as a repudiation of their capacity for giving."
"What happens when a parent assaults or kills a child?" I ask.
"You know," Mary Paul says, "the feeling that one has to love a child can be overwhelming, especially for those -- and there are many -- who do not. And then the child reminds you every day of your inability to build a world for it. It calls forth something that the parent cannot give.
"A Mexican mother in this neighborhood killed her child by repeated beatings. It said in the papers that the family 'somehow made its way from Mexico to Sunset Park.' Somehow made its way! Can you imagine what commitment it took to get from Mexico to here, what ambitions for a new life they had? They wind up in a situation where all forms of love and rationality are abandoned to that dream, which had at its center the children, after all. And then one day the child becomes a noise. And the noise has to be stilled.
"We have to remind the child that it belongs to a community. We have to do that for adults, too. Adults are yesterday's children."
"A client of ours killed her daughter," says Geraldine. "The girl was about 3 1/2. She had diabetes and she was always thirsty. So she would go to the refrigerator again and again for juice. The mother, who was unaware that the child had diabetes, was very poor. She had so little food. She told the girl not to keep going to the refrigerator, but the girl kept going anyway. So the mother hit her in the head, the child went into a coma and eventually died. The mother did not want to kill her little girl, of course. She was thinking about the juice."
 JENNIFER, THE SOCIAL worker who has been counseling Henry, says: "We spend so much time protecting ourselves from the realities because we can't bear to see what we are doing to our kids. How could we live with ourselves if we really knew what we are creating?"
She started working with Henry after the incident involving his mother's boyfriend. She had seen him around the center but had no idea of the trouble in his life until he approached her the day he testified against the boyfriend in court. His mother was shutting him out. " 'I need to talk to you,' he told me. "Then he burst into tears.
"The situation was terrible in the beginning. It is getting a bit better now. But with his mother at that time, my God! She did not speak to him for three whole months. The afternoon that Geraldine and I first went over to their house, the mother pulled a kitchen knife on Henry. He stood there helplessly, repeating, 'I don't want to hurt you.' And she kept screaming at him.
"Henry has a very tender heart. He is struggling with the question of whether it is possible to feel something without being hurt. Once he came to me and said: 'I saw something in the park today that almost made me tear. A mother and her daughter were sitting on a bench. The mother said, I love you. And the daughter said, I love you. I thought: Can people really be that way? And then I thought: Nah.'
"He is very gentle. He's wonderful with little kids in the summer camp. He would never harm a smaller child. But if an older person attacks or offends him, he is livid beyond control. He is so deeply hurt that the slightest thing sets him off. Fighting is a power issue for him. He tells me, 'When I'm in a fight, I think of my mother and it gives me the energy.'
"This graffiti business, this 'writing up.' I've said to him so many times: 'Please. Explain it to me. I want to understand.' Because he keeps getting arrested for these petty offenses, and they're building up to a point where a prosecutor will want to put him away. One time he was arrested for writing up two days in a row. I get a call and I go down to the 68th Precinct, and there he is -- no shoes on, handcuffed to the bench. The cop was awful. She said: 'I hope you go to jail because that's where you deserve to be.' So I wind up being on Henry's side, even though I want to confront him for doing the wrong thing.
"And the third day, there is Henry again, down at the station house, handcuffed to the bench. I said to him: 'Look. If you want to spend time with me, just say so. We'll go do something. You don't need to get arrested to get my attention.' He said, in that glum way of his, 'Very funny, Jennifer.' But on the way out, he leans down and tells me: 'You shouldn't help me. You should help someone else. It's past my time already.' He was 15."
Sitting with Henry in the P.S. 314 classroom, I ask him what he thinks about when he's alone.
"I think about the future, about getting out of here. I'd like to live somewhere else, upstate maybe. I wouldn't want to grow up and have a kid and live in this neighborhood. It's too dangerous.
"A man held a gun to my head one time, 'cause he wanted my fronts." Fronts are gold caps that kids wear on their teeth for show. I said, 'I won't take 'em off for you or anybody.' "
"Why not give him the fronts?" I ask.
"It's the way I am."
"Did you think he would shoot you?" He shrugs. "How would you treat a kid of your own?"
"I wouldn't hit him. I'd never hit him. If you hit a kid, he cries at first. Then he stops crying after a while and he doesn't care. You can hit him forever and it won't matter."
"Have people hit you?" He nods. "What for?"
"Writing up."
"Why do you keep doing it?"
"I don't know," he says. "I know it gets me into trouble, but I just can't stop."
"What do you write?"
"TM1," he says. "Everywhere I see some open space I write it. TM1. In the hallways, on the buildings, I just have to see it."
"What does TM1 mean?"
He looks me in the eye for the first time. "The Magnificent One," he says.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ANTHONY AND A FRIEND -- Astoria Pool, Astoria, Queens, 1993. (pg. 58); AMANDA -- Suffolk HELP Shelter, Bellport, L.I., 1993. (pg. 59); KAREN -- Minneapolis, Minn., 1994 (pg. 60); KENYA AND HER SISTER, PRECIOUS -- Suffolk HELP Shelter, Bellport, L.I., 1993. (pg. 61) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARY ELLEN MARK)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORWAY (79%); KENYA (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: W P I (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORWAY (79%); KENYA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; SURVEYS AND SERIES; CHILD ABUSE CHILDREN (91%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); RACE & RACISM (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); CHILD ABUSE (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%); 

PERSON: ROSENBLATT, ROGER

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



153 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 5; Page 11; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2158 words

HEADLINE: FALL AND WINTER CRUISES;
AFTER THE STORMS, SHIPS SAIL ON

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL; EDWIN McDOWELL writes about travel for Business Day.

 BODY:
AFTER operating close to capacity almost every summer, the cruise industry usually pauses in autumn to reposition fleets to warm winter climes and to catch its collective breath. But there will be no rest for the weary this fall. That's because Hurricane Luis tore into the Caribbean in early September, causing damage ranging from drastic to minor in Anguilla, Antigua, Barbuda, Montserrat, St. Barthelemy, St. Kitts and St. Martin-St. Maarten. And just days later, Hurricane Marilyn barreled through the U.S. Virgin Islands, devastating the popular cruise port of St. Thomas and damaging parts of St. John; St. Croix suffered relatively minor damage.
As a result, the cruise industry slightly altered a few itineraries, then had to revamp a whole lot more. "One big hurricane would have been plenty," said Larry Dessler, a spokesman for Holland America. 
 For the time being, at least, St. Thomas, St. Maarten (the Dutch side) and Antigua are off cruise ship itineraries, in most cases replaced by St. Croix, Tortola and Nassau. And anyone booked on a Caribbean cruise this fall or winter would be well advised to double-check the itinerary with cruise line or travel agent.
To illustrate the fine art of juggling, cruise-line style, consider Norwegian Cruise Line. In the aftermath of Hurricane Luis's fury, the line decided that its Norway and Seaward would substitute St. Croix for the usual calls at battered St. Maarten. But after Hurricane Marilyn roared through the Caribbean, Norwegian decided that, beginning Nov. 11, St. Croix would replace St. Thomas on the Norway's itinerary "until further notice" and that St. Maarten would also be back on that itinerary. (While Marilyn flattened St. Thomas, it treated neighboring St. Croix with relative gentleness -- at least in comparison with the destruction inflicted on the island by Hurricane Hugo in 1989.)
Meantime, in late September the Norway, which sails year-round in the eastern Caribbean, was repositioned to the western Caribbean, while the Seaward continued its alternating itineraries to the southern Caribbean. But even there the Seaward had to substitute St. Lucia for St. Maarten, St. Croix for St. Thomas and a day at sea for Antigua. As with St. Thomas, Norwegian Cruise Line ships will avoid stopping at Antigua until further notice.
No cruises were canceled because of the hurricanes, but Carnival, Royal Caribbean and Cunard ships already at sea either pulled into unexpected ports or spent an extra day at sea.
With the status of cleanup and repair still in flux on the damaged islands, some cruise line officials acknowledge that "until further notice" could extend well beyond the two to three months that some island tourist boards are forecasting as the time they will need to be back in business. In any event, the bypassed ports, whose residents have already suffered from nature's fury, are virtually certain to suffer further hardship from the inevitable drop in tourism, the islands' economic mainstay.
Last year, for example, 1,240,000 cruise ship passengers visited St. Thomas (out of a total 1.9 million visitors), according to the Florida Caribbean Cruise Association, while 718,600 visited St. Maarten and 222,900 called at Antigua. In a 1992 economic impact study of the United States passenger cruise industry done for the Cruise Lines International Association, the accounting concern Price Waterhouse found that the industry accounted for 8,540 full-time jobs in the U.S. Virgin Islands, its total economic impact on the islands amounted to $171.8 million and it generated $6.9 million for the islands in port taxes and fees.
The one silver lining for the industry amid the tumult is that the hurricanes hit while many ships destined for the Caribbean were still in Europe, on the West Coast or making their way down from Alaska. Princess Cruises's Star Princess did not leave San Diego for the East until Sept. 22, Holland America's first Caribbean itinerary is not until this Saturday, and the Crystal Harmony will not arrive in the Caribbean until the end of this month, after its trans-Atlantic crossing from Europe. Cunard won't get up to speed in the Caribbean until the Christmas season, when it will have four ships there.
SPEAKING of Cunard, its QE2 weathered a frightening moment last month, south of Newfoundland near the Grand Banks, when it was hit head-on in the early morning hours by a monstrous wave generated by Hurricane Luis. While a Cunard spokeswoman disputed press descriptions that it was a "tidal wave," she acknowledged that it was 90 feet high.
Perhaps because the wave hit in the early morning, none of the 2,500 passengers and crew was seriously injured. But the incident served as another reminder that whereas cruising has a good safety record, it is neither risk- nor incident-free. In less than two months last summer, six ships -- belonging to the Majesty Cruise Line, Cunard, Carnival, Delta Steamboat Company, Princess Cruises and Regency Cruises -- either ran aground, caught fire, suffered engine problems or hit a rock.
While no one was killed or seriously injured, the mishaps led the Coast Guard last month to create a task force to examine international maritime safety standards and see what lessons can be learned from the incidents. Some cruise line executives think it possible that the mishaps have eroded confidence in cruising -- at least on the part of those who have never cruised.
After three of those six incidents this summer, Mickey Arison -- president of Carnival Corporation, the cruise line's corporate parent -- said the cumulative effect of the publicity could have cost as much as eight percentage points off the industry's occupancy rate (which last year averaged 88 percent).
Because autumn is also cruising's slowest season, discounts tend to be more generous than at any other time of year, often extending well into winter. The bargains are out there again, and in late September, at least, the cruise lines insisted they need not sweeten them further because of disruption caused by the hurricanes.
The existing bargains include 2-for-1 fares on certain Carnival, Celebrity, Costa, Holland America and Princess cruises; third and fourth passengers sharing the same cabin free on some Carnival and Premier cruises, and third and fourth passengers sharing the same cabin on some Royal Caribbean and Norwegian Cruise Lines for as little as $99 each.
Industry-wide fares have averaged about $200 a person a day for the past four years, yet a half-dozen cruise lines are offering Caribbean cruises this fall that will average around $150 a day -- even after including the round-trip air fare that some cruise lines now routinely omit from the large print in their ads.
Many bargains for this fall and winter were advertised months in advance. For example, last March, Royal Cruise announced it would not raise fares for any of its 1996 worldwide cruises, and also announced discounts from 80 percent to 100 percent for the second person sharing a cabin with a full fare passenger aboard the Queen Odyssey.
The rush to trumpet this fall's discounts stemmed from industry determination to avoid a repetition of last year, when a heavily booked spring and summer lulled many industry officials into thinking they did not need bargain fares to entice passengers in the fall.
It proved to be a costly miscalculation. Passengers stayed away in droves, causing the industry's first year-long falloff (1 percent) in at least 20 years. Some industry officials even blamed the fall slump for contributing to the unexpectedly weak winter of 1995, when passenger count fell an alarming 4.5 percent over the same period last year.
But cruising seemed to wage a strong comeback this summer, aided by a weak dollar that kept many vacationers at home rather than in Europe, and the cruise industry's long term outlook remains bullish. That is primarily because only 8 percent of North Americans have ever taken a cruise, according to the Cruise Lines International Association, and because cruise lines are beginning to target the virtually untapped foreign market.
With new ships costing upwards of $350 million, the cruise industry (and its bankers) is backing up its optimistic forecasts with its bank book. Four new ships have already joined the cruise fleet this year, bringing the total to 105, while two more will arrive in December and at least 20 more are scheduled by 1999, including two 2,400-passenger ships from Disney Cruise Lines. By then the number of berths will have soared to more than 141,000 from just under 105,000 last year, and the competition to fill them is already a major preoccupation of cruise line sales and marketing officials.
THE increasingly heated competition in the industry has led to a drive to embellish both the ships' gustatory appeal -- with lines adding all types of snack outlets and specialty fare -- and their esthetics. Carnival's Imagination, launched this summer, has installed a pizzeria, for example, and several Royal Caribbean ships now have full-time horticulturists tending the greenery on board.
Among the new ships being launched this season, the 1,950-passenger Sun Princess, scheduled to go into service in late December, was constructed two weeks ahead of schedule, allowing it to add two weeklong Caribbean cruises (Dec. 2 and Dec. 9). And Royal Caribbean's Splendour of the Seas, expected next March, is also being delivered two weeks early, in time to add three additional European cruises.
The fastest growing destination is Asia and the Pacific, where the number of cruises has mushroomed from 19 in 1984 to nearly 400 this year. Holland America's Rotterdam is offering its longest South Pacific voyage ever this fall, 34 days from Los Angeles beginning Oct. 17; it will call at 13 ports and twice cross both the international dateline and the equator. In December, Royal Caribbean will deploy its 714-passenger Sun Viking to year-round service in the region. And citing "unprecedented demand for cruises to Southwest Asia," Royal Cruise Line added a second 12-day cruise in the region to the Star Odyssey's winter schedule.
The popularity of Asia/Pacific voyages reflects the desire of repeat cruisers to visit faraway places, including those with such sonorous names as Bali, Pago Pago, Fiji and Bora Bora. For the cruise lines themselves, the Pacific means less competition and higher fares. "In the Caribbean we had to drop our per diem from $831 per person to around $350," said Ernie Beyl, a spokesman for the luxury Seabourne line. "So our Seabourne Pride will be leaving the Caribbean in March and redeploying to the South Pacific, where our per diem goes up to $1,000 a day on cruises to China."
For years now, even some industry veterans have predicted that world cruises would sail off into the sunset, casualties of the three to four months' time required to circle the globe and of the minimum $30,000 to pay for it. What's more, the most popular cruises for the past several years have been those of three to four days, according to the Cruise Lines International Association. Yet world cruises, usually defined as cruises of at least 90 days, are actually growing in popularity. Moreover, Regency Cruises is offering what some employees affectionately describe as "the first workingman's world cruise" and rivals call "the first mass market world cruise" -- a 113-day voyage aboard the Regent Sea, departing New York Jan. 3 and returning to Fort Lauderdale on April 26. With rates ranging from $14,465 to $29,052, Regent Sea's voyage is as much as 50 percent below those of most of its more luxurious competitors.
The phenomenon that breathed new life into the world cruise market was segmentation -- dividing each cruise into many shorter segments, all of which can be taken separately, with an array of optional land tours. The Regent Sea offers 18 segments, many as short as 14 days. The QE2, which departs New York on Jan. 4 for 95 days, offers four segments shorter than two weeks.
Theme cruises continue to grow in popularity, according to the Cruise Lines International Association. Music and sports are the most popular themes, but more and more cruises are packaged around health and physical fitness themes.
Then there are cruises that defy easy description. Late this month for example, the Celebrity Zenith is scheduled to leave Fort Lauderdale on a one-week cruise combining elements of a reunion, an affinity group and maybe even a war party. Aboard will be William F. Buckley Jr., noted sailor and the founder of National Review, who will be celebrating the magazine's 40th anniversary along with many of its editors, contributors and subscribers. While the revised itinerary calls for stops at San Juan, Tortola and Nassau, the advertisement for the cruise declares, "If the mood hits us, we'll swing by neighboring Cuba and give Fidel a scare."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Family birthday party aboard the Fascination. (Jonathan Atkin for The New York Times); Miguel James, horticulturist on the Sovereign of the Seas. (Tom Salyer/Silver Image, for The New York Times); Crystal Symphony's New York inaugural. (Barry M. Winker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NCLH (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (55%); 

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (97%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (96%); SAINT MARTIN (94%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (94%); ANGUILLA (92%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (92%); MONTSERRAT (92%); SAINT LUCIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE HOLDINGS LTD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN AREA; CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (97%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (96%); SAINT MARTIN (94%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (94%); ANGUILLA (92%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (92%); MONTSERRAT (92%); SAINT LUCIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CRUISES; HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); NYTRAVEL CRUISES (96%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (92%); HURRICANES (91%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (75%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (66%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (66%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



154 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 16; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTICUT GUIDE

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:

MOVIE MONSTERS TIME
Cortlandt Hull's Witch's Dungeon in Bristol is open for business for the 29th year at the price of 50 cents admission. 
 Mr. Hull's horror museum was born of his adolescent love of horror movies, his experience as an artist-illustrator, and as a makeup and prop man for many television shows and commercials. He started his museum when he was 13 and gave it the name that has stuck to the present day.
Many of the characters who occupy his mordant vignettes were created from life masks of the film stars who created them or molds from the original "Dracula," "Frankenstein" and various werewolf movies.
The museum opens only once a year like Brigadoon, but with rather a different atmosphere. (Henry Hull, star of the 1935 "Werewolf of London" was Mr. Hull's great-uncle, by the way.)
Several years ago, through friendships with Hollywood makeup artists, Mr. Hull met Vincent Price, who supported his efforts and provided the voice track and his costume from "House of Wax." Mark Hamill of the "Star Wars" films; John Agar, star of science fiction horror movies in the 50's, and June Foray, the voice of many Hollywood cartoon characters, have also contributed voice tracks. There are 13 exhibits based on movie monsters known and loved.
The museum is at 90 Battle Street, and is open Friday through Sunday of the coming week, also Oct. 20 through Oct. 22 and Oct. 27 through Oct. 31, from 7 to 10 P.M. There are no daytime hours and the experience is not recommeded for children under 6. Because of its artistry and authenticity, the exhibition attracts movie buffs and busloads of college students from a wide area. For more information or directions, call 583-8306 or 584-4718.
 
CHAOS AND ORDER
 The riveting choreography of Donald Byrd and the Group, his company of multiethnic dancers, may be seen in a single performance on Saturday at 8 P.M. at University Theater, 222 York Street in New Haven. Tickets at $22, or $11 for students, may be reserved by calling 432-1234.
Titled "Drastic," an apt characterization of Mr. Byrd's pole-to-pole swings of creativity, the evening will consist of excerpts from some of his most recent works, including "Bristle," "Life Situations" and "Drastic Cuts." Careening between chaos and order his choreography dwells on the battle between the sexes, expressed in a fusion of ballet, gymnastics, street dance and jazz.
Mr. Byrd's training was acquired at Yale, the London School of Contemporary Dance and the Alvin Ailey Center. Since 1976 he has created some 80 works for his own company, the Alvin Ailey company, major dance companies in Dallas, Philadelphia, Atlanta and in France, the Netherlands and England. He has been the recipient of fellowships from the National Endowment for the Arts and the New York Foundation for the Arts.
 
JOHN WATERS ON TASTE
 The content of "Shock Value" and "Trash Trio," published respectively by Dell in 1981 and Vintage Books in 1988, typify their author's contention that bad taste often makes for good movies. The author, John Waters, will explore that thesis on Saturday at 7 P.M. in the Wadsworth Atheneum's Aetna Theater in downtown Hartford, following a cash bar reception at 6:30.
Three films that Mr. Waters directed will be screened to illustrate the talk. The films are "Serial Mom" with Kathleen Turner, a 1994 hit about a loving wife and mother who does murder as dutifully as she does the laundry; "Hairspray" of 1988, a sendup of monumental hair-dos and inflated social stereotypes, and "Female Trouble," Mr. Waters's favorite, about a fictional criminal named Dawn.
Tickets are $30. Call 278-2670, extension 3049 for reservations.
 
BUILDING BOXES
 "Architecture + Children," an unusual family event, is scheduled on Saturday in Norwalk and New Canaan. The event is organized by the Connecticut Architecture Foundation of New Haven, which awards scholarships in architecture to needy Connecticut students, and the Architecture Resource Center, the foundation's educational arm aimed at primary and secondary schoolchildren.
From 10 A.M. to 3 P.M. at the Silvermine Elementary School in Norwalk, parents and children will work together to design a city out of cardboard boxes, colored paper and markers. The results will be exhibited from 7 to 10 P.M. at the Silvermine Guild of Artists Gallery in New Canaan, where a black-tie cocktail party, silent auction of donated merchandise and music performed by multitalented architects will be held.
The purpose of all of this is to point up the lack of architecture as subject matter in school curriculums, thus leaving a void where a sense of community planning, of buildings as form, home, decoration, emblem or history should be, according to the foundation.
Admission to the parent-child workshop is free, admission to the evening party is $100, or $200 with a 6 P.M. preview and a copy of Philip Johnson's book "In His Own Words," autographed by the architect. Mr. Johnson is honorary chairman of the event and is expected to attend the party. For reservations or more information, call 865-2195.
 
LUNCH AND FLOWERS
 A lecture, lunch and a flower show are the ingredients of the Middletown Garden Club's 80th anniversary, to be celebrated with a series of events taking place on Thursday from 10:30 A.M. to 9 P.M.
The club's new project, to be started in conjunction with the birthday, is the restoration of plantings at Long Hill Estate, built in 1909 by Col. Clarence S. Wadsworth, with grounds designed by Olmstead Brothers of Boston.
After a fire and extensive vandalism had damaged the property, the city acquired it last year to save it from demolition. Together with the Nature Conservancy and a local committee, the city is working toward rehabilitating the mansion for new uses. The garden club will work on a 1,000-foot lane and a connecting nature trail.
Flower arranging will be the subject of the 10:30 lecture at the Barns on Wesleyan Hills Road, where a garden boutique will be open from 11:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M., and a silent auction of garden-related items, services and rare blooms will be in progress. The flower show will be held in five homes, on decks, antique tables, breakfast trays, fireplace mantels, pedestals and along woodland walks. Box lunches will be available at the Barns at noon, and a catered evening gala is set from 6 to 9 o'clock.
Prices range from $25 for the lecture and flower show to $40 for lecture, lunch and flower show or the evening gala. Patron tickets for two or more persons start at $150. Call 347-4354 or 342-2805 for more information.
 
FORMAL OR FOLKSY
 "American Colonial: Puritan Simplicity to Georgian Grace" is the story of American Colonial design breaking away from English prototypes and evolving into styles based on formal or folksy tastes and rooted in regional, social, economic, cultural and technical factors.
It will be recounted on Wednesday by Wendell Garrett, senior vice president of the American decorative arts department of Sotheby's in New York.
The talk will be given at the Greenwich Japanese School, 270 Lake Avenue, in Greenwich, free of charge at 8 P.M.
The event is sponsored by the Greenwich Historical Society. Dessert and coffee will be served at 7:30.
For more information, call 869-6899. ELEANOR CHARLES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); ENGLAND (79%); NETHERLANDS (65%); FRANCE (50%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT ARCHITECTURE FOUNDATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT ARCHITECTURE FOUNDATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); ENGLAND (79%); NETHERLANDS (65%); FRANCE (50%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); HORROR FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); DANCE (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); COSMETICS (78%); DANCERS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); DANCE EDUCATION (68%); DANCE COMPANIES (67%); BALLET (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (56%); 

PERSON: VINCENT PRICE (55%); MARK HAMILL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



155 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 4; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Building May Be Sold, Leased or Given Away;
City Plans to Give Up Site at Columbus Circle

 BODY:
The New York City Department of Cultural Affairs and the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau may soon be vacating their headquarters on Columbus Circle, as city officials said last week that they were preparing to turn over building to the private sector, probably sometime next year.
Forrest Taylor, the chief of staff for John S. Dyson, the city's Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, said that the city was in the process of preparing a request for proposals to develop the site. That could mean that the building will be sold or leased or possibly even given away. The request should be ready by spring, Mr. Taylor said. 
 "It is thought that the best place for this property is in the hands of the private sector -- that way the city receives tax revenue, and there is the additional component in that you create construction jobs," he said.
He added that no place had been found for the Cultural Affairs Department. "We will find a place for them," he said.
Stephen J. Morello, president of the Convention and Visitors Bureau, whose space in the building is provided rent free by the city, said he hoped to be "able to work with the Deputy Mayor's office to find alternative space that is either rent free or would have the lowest possible cost."
The white marble building, formerly known as the New York Cultural Center and the Huntington Hartford Gallery of Modern Art, is at 2 Columbus Circle, between Eighth Avenue and Broadway on the south side of the circle.
Built in 1964, it was designed by Edward Durell Stone and was commissioned by Mr. Hartford, the A. & P. heir. It was later bought by the Gulf & Western Company and presented to the city as a gift.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Building at 2 Columbus Circle, originally the Huntington Hartford gallery, may be turned over to private use. (Monica Almeida for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CULTURAL AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (NYC); NEW YORK CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT (77%); CULTURAL AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (70%); VISITORS BUREAU (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: CULTURAL AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (NYC); NEW YORK CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT (77%); CULTURAL AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (70%); VISITORS BUREAU (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; COLUMBUS CIRCLE (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC BUILDINGS CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); MAYORS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); JOB CREATION (71%); 

PERSON: HUNTINGTON HARTFORD (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



156 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 8; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: AT THE SHORE;
Gate Plan Leaves a City Feeling Locked Out

BYLINE: By BARBARA STEWART 

 BODY:
It takes a minute, at most, to stroll across either of the two concrete footbridges that span Wesley Lake, joining Asbury Park to the Ocean Grove neighborhood in Neptune Township. The easy access to and fro is frightening the residents of Ocean Park's gabled Victorian gingerbread houses. Neptune officials voted last week to block the walkways by installing high, sturdy gates to be locked from dark to dawn.
Neptune officials say strong gates would block an escape route for criminals. Police officers in cars cannot cross the bridges, said Mayor Richard Iadanza, and closed gates will force criminals "to run a little farther." 
 "How many people are out at 2 in the morning having peaceful hand-in-hand strolls?" he said. "We're trying to make it harder for people to get mugged, raped, stabbed."
But Asbury Park officials perceive other motives.
"If laws don't stop criminals, gates won't stop criminals," said Al Feit, Asbury Park's city manager. Furthermore, he added, "it sends a bad message, restricting people to go from one town to another."
The more passionately opposed Asbury Park residents liken blocking the footbridges to the internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II, or the forcing of black South Africans into townships.
"This is about: 'We're afraid of you. We don't want you crossing this bridge,' " said Midge Guerrera, who works in public relations and has lived in Asbury Park for 10 years. "It's: 'The people on the other side of the bridge are scary. We don't want any part of them.' It's about attitude, symbols."
It's also about race and money, or the lack of it, she said. "We're a mini-Newark. We have a multicultural population. We've got a melt."
Bruce Donaldson, an Asbury Park real estate broker, agreed. "It's racist," he said. "More black people live here. Asbury Park is a very depressed city, a lower economic level."
Once known as the jewel of the Jersey shore, Asbury Park is a resort town whose hard times began about 30 years ago. Its population of 17,000 is 65 percent minority, and its average income per person is $11,000 a year. Ocean Grove is a mile-square trove of Victorian houses and bed-and-breakfasts.
"Think Ralph Lauren colors," said Larry D. Jackson, the chief executive of the Ocean Grove Camp Meeting Association, which owns the neighborhood. "Forest green and burgundy. Beiges, blues, pinks, purples. Tea shops and crafts and espresso."
Ocean Grove, a community of 6,000, was founded as a Methodist summer center a century ago, when the bridges had gates, guards and a penny toll. Its tradition of keeping the Sabbath was law until 1980, when the United States Supreme Court struck down laws forbidding the driving of cars and pedaling of bicycles on Sundays.
The Ocean Grove Camp Meeting Association plans to meet on Oct. 21 to vote on the footbridge gates. "The feeling is that the township feels gates are needed for security reasons," Mr. Jackson said. "The association is likely to agree."
If gates are built, the Asbury Park school board and council members threaten to call reporters and scale them, said Jack Huber, a 10-year resident of Asbury Park.
To that, Mayor Iadanza responded: "Whoever wants to try whatever they want to try, let them try and God bless them."

GRAPHIC: Map of foot bridges.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASBURY PARK PRESS INC (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEPTUNE (NJ); ASBURY PARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; BLACKS CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MAYORS (77%); CITIES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (72%); ASIAN AMERICANS (66%); WORLD WAR II (51%); 

PERSON: STEWART, BARBARA RALPH LAUREN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



157 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2234 words

HEADLINE: A Doting Uncle Cuts Back, And a City Feels the Pain

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

DATELINE: ROCHESTER

 BODY:
IF ever a company looked after the interests of its home city, Eastman Kodak did. The company's principal founder a century ago, George Eastman, had no children and instead nurtured Rochester like a doting uncle. He gave away more than $100 million -- about $1 billion in today's dollars -- mainly to schools, the University of Rochester and local hospitals. He helped start the organization that became the United Way in Rochester. One year he even paid to remove the tonsils of every child in town.
After Eastman died in 1932, his company remained a model of civic sensibility. It resisted the temptation to use its size to negotiate for cheaper medical care for its Rochester employees, a tactic that would mean higher prices for individuals who did not work for Kodak and most small businesses and might push some companies to eliminate health benefits entirely. Many health-care experts have praised the company for an all-for-one and one-for-all spirit that has meant, among other things, that only about 7 percent of area residents do not have health insurance, compared with 15 percent nationally. In all, the move was seen as a fitting legacy of Mr. Eastman, who, according to historians, said "I want to make Rochester the best city in which to live and work." 
But now, with foreign competition growing and Wall Street demanding higher returns, good old Uncle Kodak is beginning to seem a lot less open-handed in town. And many here are worried.
For one thing, Kodak is threatening to desert its longstanding commitment to buying insurance that way. It also encouraged its retirees this summer to join a health plan that excluded two high-priced hospitals, one that was expensive partly because it trained medical students, the other because it subsidized the care of poor people. And Kodak has sharply cut its charitable contributions.
"We're being more careful how we spend our money everywhere in the world these days," said the new George at Kodak's helm -- George M. C. Fisher. "Rochester is no exception -- not only in our factories and work areas but in the community."
Indeed, Mr. Fisher, a Midwesterner who came from Motorola Inc. in 1993, admits that unlike the Kodak's legendary founder, "I personally have not spent a lot of time in the community. I said the best thing I could do for the city was to get the company back on a strong path. Therefore I would spend virtually all my time working for Kodak on business issues."
It is a story that is repeating itself across America -- a corporate benefactor that scales back locally in the name of remaining competitive globally. And it is all the more troubling because even as American companies reconsider their community obligations, Congress is whittling at Government programs that are also part of the safety net.
The cuts being proposed in Washington for Medicare and Medicaid, for example, would drain 10 percent to 15 percent from annual revenues at Strong Memorial Hospital, the University of Rochester teaching hospital, according to the hospital's chief executive, Leo P. Brideau. And at St. Mary's Hospital, which cares for many of Rochester's poor, the cuts "would severely affect our ability to provide these very necessary services to these people," said Susan Sanchez, manager of a center there that cares for 800 low-income patients a month.
For decades, Kodak had a lock on the film-products market. But in recent years it has faced an onslaught from the Japanese giant Fuji and low-priced private-label films made for the big discount retailers, as well as the growing threat of new technologies that allow filmless electronic imaging. Fuji, with a relatively young work force of 5,000 employees in the United States and only a handful of retirees, seems a particular threat to Kodak, with its 54,000 United States workers and 44,000 retirees.
As a result, Kodak is looking for ways to manage its costs that would have been unthinkable some years ago. Company officials quietly told some of Rochester's health care executives recently that unless they could reduce even further costs that are already low compared with those in other regions, Kodak might abandon its commitment to paying the same as everyone else in the community. Instead, Kodak, whose 58,000 employees and retirees in Rochester and their families account for 15 percent of the privately insured population, would start negotiating for discounts on medical care the way most big companies -- including Kodak -- routinely do in other cities.

FEW people in Rochester know much about this threat, not even the Mayor, William Johnson. But some who do mince no words. "We are not interested in beggaring our neighbor," said Helen Darling, a benefits executive with the Xerox Corporation, another big local employer. "We shouldn't say 'we want a better deal and the hell with the rest of the people.' "
Executives of some smaller businesses here also like the one-price-for-all system. "It's like one huge pool that makes it real nice for us," said Stanley Sarat, vice president of Ferronics Inc., a manufacturer with 85 employees.
Kodak has also recently told 16,000 Rochester retirees who are eligible for Medicare that starting Jan. 1, for the first time, they will have to pay part of the cost of their supplementary insurance premiums -- unless they sign up for a health plan called Preferred Care Gold that costs the company less money than other plans.
Preferred Care Gold is a first for Rochester. Unlike managed care plans in most cities, which exclude many doctors and hospitals, Rochester's two main insurers, Preferred Care and Rochester Blue Cross and Blue Shield, had always offered the services of all seven area hospitals. And 90 percent of the city's 2,000 doctors were available to patients covered by both companies.
But the new Preferred Care Gold plan excluded two hospitals with higher costs and higher prices. The first was Strong Memorial, the prestigious university hospital that George Eastman helped start in 1920 and was named for Henry A. Strong, the businessman who had financed the young inventor. The cost of training medical students adds 10 percent to 20 percent to Strong's costs, said Mr. Brideau, the hospital's chief executive.
The second hospital was St. Mary's, which serves about half of Rochester's indigent patients. The new plan also omitted some 400 doctors affiliated with the two hospitals.
Many company retirees were outraged. "We feel betrayed by Kodak," Hugh I. Race, 67, a retired sheet-metal worker, said last week. Mr. Race said that, upon his retirement in 1993, he had been promised in writing that his free health insurance -- covering any doctor or hospital he chose -- would continue for the rest of his life. Mr. Race said a group of Kodak retirees were consulting lawyers about filing a class action lawsuit against the company. "If they get away with this," he said, "what next?"
Many in the medical community were also alarmed. Dr. William Stein, an internist affiliated with Strong Memorial, criticized the exclusions and said he would refuse to take his patients who chose Preferred Care Gold to another hospital. "I made my voice heard through patients I have had for 30 years," he said. "I told them to call Preferred Care" and complain.
The protests have paid off, at least for now. Kodak executives said they were surprised that Preferred Care had excluded St. Mary's and Strong. And after some scrambling, both hospitals were brought into the Preferred Care Gold plan. Kodak made a one-year commitment to pay on the side for Strong's medical education; the hospital agreed to cost restraints acceptable to Preferred Care.
St. Mary's struck a deal of its own with Preferred Care after threatening to pull out of an arrangement that helps the company comply with a state requirement that health maintenance organizations recruit Medicaid members as well as more lucrative enrollees. "If we're good enough for their Medicaid program, we ought to be good for their Medicare people," said Stewart Putnam, the chief executive of St. Mary's.
Kodak has caused concern to Rochester on at least one more front: corporate philanthropy. Still the town's biggest giver, Kodak has cut what it donates to charities nationwide by 35 percent, to $13 million last year from $20 million in 1988, and to the local United Way by 17 percent, to $3 million.
It hasn't helped that Kodak has also cut its work force in Rochester by 40 percent since the mid-1980's, to 34,000. Not surprisingly, donations by Kodak employees to the United Way of Rochester have also dropped.
At first glance, Kodak's hard line on medical costs, which exceed $200 million annually at a company with revenue last year of $13.56 billion, might seem hard to understand. After all, Kodak and other employers here such as Xerox and General Motors say their health costs have been 20 percent to 33 percent lower in Rochester than in other cities for several years. But Mr. Fisher said that Kodak fears "that advantage is slipping away from us" as costs creep up in Rochester, while slipping in places like California where large employers win discounts on medical care for their workers. In such places, plans are also more exclusive about which doctors and hospitals they accept.
"As the leading industrial concern in this part of the state," Mr. Fisher said, "we really need to take the lead in bringing health care costs back to a rate of improvement just to make sure we don't lose ground relative to the rest of the country."
That demanding stand -- trying to improve on something that already looks good -- is typical of Mr. Fisher and many other executives these days. It is one reason that Kodak's board sacked his predecessor, Kay R. Whitmore, and ushered in Mr. Fisher, and one reason that Kodak shareholders have seen the value of their holdings in the company and a spun-off chemical division increase 56 percent since Kodak said in October 1993 that he was taking over. And many people in Rochester, while they fear any cuts in philanthropy, also acknowledge that without a financially healthy Kodak, the community will only suffer more.
"Everyone in this town loves George Fisher," said Jennifer Leonard, head of the Rochester Community Trust, a local charity organization. "On balance this community and its charitable organizations would rather have a strong Eastman Kodak with rising employment than worry about a relatively small drop in corporate giving."

EVEN as it limits its financial obligations, Kodak is looking for ways to help the community. A newly formed Rochester Health Commission -- led by a Kodak senior vice president, Michael P. Morley -- has been charged with seeking consensus in addressing health care issues.
Mr. Morley said the commission's top issue is to examine health care systems, from ones in which employers cut their own deals to ones like that used in Rochester. He said the health commission would also look at such local issues as how best to finance medical education at Strong Memorial and other hospitals, how to keep down the number of uninsured people and how to eliminate 700 hospital beds as health care increasingly shifts to doctors' offices and walk-in clinics.
These questions will be hard to answer. Meanwhile, Kodak still has "a significant commitment to community rating," said David E. Edwards, the company's benefits director, using insurer jargon for a one-price-for-all system like Rochester's. "The question is, can the local leadership and the commission and those who made this commitment get the community to adopt the 'best practices' " of managed care in other cities?" By that, Mr. Edwards meant finding ways to eliminate unneeded or inappropriate medical care that drives up prices.
If the commission cannot initiate important changes in Rochester's system, "employers and others will look for other, much more competitive alternatives," he said.
To be sure, the growth of medical costs in Rochester has slowed. Blue Cross rates have risen 2.9 percent for health maintenance organizations in the area this year and 2.5 percent for traditional coverage, close to the country's latest general inflation rate of 2.6 percent..
"But other communities are making significant improvements faster than we are," said Art Aspengren, president of the Rochester Industrial Management Council, an employer group that includes hospitals.
Dr. Stein, the internist, agreed that "the rest of the country has passed us by" in saving money -- for example, by discharging patients from hospitals more quickly. He thinks Rochester hospitals and doctors can change their ways by mutual agreements, without emulating California, the mecca of managed care, "where physicians are out of work and hospitals have closed."
But many benefits consultants who promote managed care say California should be a role model. By contrast, the Rochester H.M.O.'s have little control over doctors and hospitals because they do not pick and choose among them, said Brian Younger, a partner with Andersen Consulting.
The cures, however, could be worse than the disease. If the city loses its one-price-for-all system, "there will be more people uninsured, and that raises costs again," Mr. Aspengren said, when the uninsured show up in emergency rooms with advanced illnesses that might have been caught at an earlier, less costly stage.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "We're being more careful how we spend our money everywhere in the world these days." GEORGE M. C. FISHER Kodak's new chief executive (Reed Hoffman/Rochester Democrat & Chronicle); "I want to make Rochester the best city in which to live and work." GEORGE EASTMAN Kodak's founder (1854-1932) (The New York Times) (pg. 9)
 
Graph shows Kodak's market share in 1993 worldwide sales and 1994 sales figures (Source: Kodak, Fuji) (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO EASTMAN KODAK CO (91%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: EASTMAN KODAK CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HISTORY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); HOSPITALS (76%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT; FISHER, GEORGE M C GEORGE EASTMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



158 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Time to Check Gas Gauge on Equity Funds

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
The fuel that propelled United States equity markets to record heights in the first nine months of the year -- strong economic growth, low interest rates, improvements in productivity and expanding corporate profit margins -- is running low, making several investment and mutual fund strategists increasingly wary about the outlook for stocks.
"We've had an incredible rally, but looking ahead, the economic news isn't likely to be as good," said Theresa Hamacher, chief investment officer for Prudential Mutual Funds. "Stock valuations are extended, and at some point we're going to see a selloff." 
 That could be disappointing for the thousands of individuals who have flocked to mutual funds recently -- investors who have overwhelmingly put their savings into funds that invest in American stocks -- and to the fund companies that just closed the books on three stellar quarters.
Those parties can take little comfort in the lessons of history. According to Ibbotson Associates, a Chicago investment consulting firm, only four times since 1927 have stock prices risen more in the first nine months of a year than they did in 1995. In three of those years -- 1927, 1933 and 1987 -- the market cooled off in the fourth quarter.
Nor can mutual fund investors -- particularly those whose funds have fueled big gains by loading up on technology stocks -- find solace in the possibility that Congress will cut the capital gains tax later this year. While a cut is often promoted as a way to draw new money into the market, the immediate impact could be less than positive. Investors have used two previous cuts in the rate as an excuse to convert big paper profits to the real thing.
What's a mutual fund maven to do? "There is a better case to be made for bonds than for stocks over the next nine months or so," said Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Company. Ms. Hamacher concurs. "In our mutual funds that can hold bonds, we are finding they are as good a value as many stocks," she said.
Such predictions upend the fund results of this year's first three quarters. Mutual funds that invest primarily in stocks put together a stunning nine months, with the average domestic equity fund gaining 26.9 percent, including 8.92 percent in the third quarter, according to Morningstar Inc., a fund analysis company based in Chicago.
Other types of equity funds produced impressive gains, too. Specialized funds -- focusing on specific market sectors, like technology and banking -- rose 23.5 percent on average through September and 8.7 percent in the third quarter. International stock funds heated up in the third quarter, rising 4.88 percent, more than doubling first-half gains and putting the group ahead 7.7 percent for the year.
Bond funds, while not keeping pace with the red-hot equities market, have still had a fine year. The average domestic fixed-income fund gained 11.8 percent in the first nine months, including a 2.1 percent return in the most recent quarter. Municipal bond funds rose 11.1 percent, including 2.34 percent in the most recent quarter.
Things could get better for bond funds, but many mutual fund investors are not in position to take advantage of a bond rally. "We often find that fund investors have a lot of money in C.D.'s and equities, but don't have enough in bonds," Ms. Hamacher said.
As a rule of thumb, an investor's age is a good target, Ms. Hamacher said, for the percentage of a portfolio that should be in fixed-income products. "If you've gotten caught up in the euphoria of the stock market rally and have plunged all your life savings into technology funds, maybe you should start looking at some alternatives."
Any further strength in the stock market will depend almost solely on continued growth in corporate profits, Mr. Metz said. That growth "is waning and will continue to wane," he said. "The overall momentum of the market is gone."
Mary C. Farrell, market strategist at Paine Webber Inc., finds that estimates of future earnings "remain very, very high" despite signs of a slowing economy. She expects profit growth for companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 index to slow sharply this quarter. And next year a number of companies will find quarterly profits lagging behind or, at best, running even with this year's results, she predicted.
Among smaller companies, the current level of market optimism is more misguided, Ms. Farrell said. "For most small-cap companies, analysts are holding estimates that are way out of whack with the reality of a soft landing" for the economy.
While she doesn't view current stock market valuations as extreme, "the next few months will be a difficult few," she said.
"We really need an interest rate cut on the short-term end to make a strong case for upward momentum in the stock market," Ms. Farrell said. "Or it would be nice to get that capital gains tax cut."
Be careful what you ask for, warns Geoffrey Brod, vice president and equity analyst at Aeltus Investment Management, a money-management arm of Aetna Life and Casualty Company, based in Hartford. Capital gains rates have been cut twice before, in 1978 and 1981. "In both instances, the market experienced a nasty selloff over the next three to six months," he said, as the lower tax rate encouraged investors to take profits on winning positions.
Mr. Metz thinks even less of a tax cut. "A capital gains tax reduction is likely to put a lid on the stock market for as far as the eye can see," he said. "It will motivate a lot of sellers to take action and it will encourage no new buyers."
Meanwhile, any profit taking in the near future will probably be concentrated in the sector that has produced the greatest gains so far this year: technology. In fact, that happened to some degree last week when an analyst at Soundview Financial Group, a Stamford, Conn., firm that specializes in technology companies, cut his investment rating on the stocks of several semiconductor companies. It was the first such rating cut by the firm in three years, and it triggered a technology selloff.
James Townsend, chief executive of Soundview, said the firm still expects strong third-quarter and fourth-quarter earnings from most companies in the semiconductor group. But he notes that chip makers could have a tough time beating this year's spectacular earnings results beginning in the first quarter of 1996. Supplies of certain types of chips are beginning to catch up with demand, Mr. Townsend said, which could lead to lower prices.
Any disappointment in technology earnings could lead to a broad selloff in the group, because expectations continue to be so high. So while none of the strategists mentioned here are outright bears on the stock market, they do expect slower growth in the American economy to be the rule, rather than the exception.
That is one reason why mutual fund shareholders should not forget about overseas opportunities, said Ms. Hamacher, the Prudential strategist. "Economic growth is generally better overseas, and the markets have more attractive valuations," she said.
European countries offer the strongest economic growth in the world, even as many countries are undertaking structural changes, Ms. Hamacher said. Pacific Rim markets, by contrast, "are clearly fairly risky, but long-term economic growth can be the greatest there," she said.
"Those markets have lagged as well," Ms. Hamacher said, "and we are finding some good values."
But she warns against venturing into Latin American markets, which "are having trouble getting back on track," she said.
"I think there will be an opportunity there," she said, "but right now the underlying political and economic changes are not as compelling" as in other regions.
All the factors mentioned by the market strategists matter more to investors whose horizons are relatively short than to those who expect to remain invested for decades to come. To the long-term fund investors, a stock market correction of 5 percent to 15 percent in coming months could be nothing more than a minor blip -- in retrospect, of course. While it's happening, it might be frightening indeed.

GRAPHIC: Graphs shows the average percentage gain or lose of stock funds and bond funds for '94 and '95 (Source: Morningstar Inc.) (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (62%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (64%); MORNINGSTAR INC (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); BOND FUNDS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TAX LAW (69%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD THERESA HAMACHER (76%); MARY C FARRELL (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



159 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Diary

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING 

 BODY:

PARKING
Delivered, Presumably, Dent-Free
In a test run in Augsburg, Germany, an automatic rotating disc brought three cars to their parking slots. The promised waiting time at this fancy new garage: 2.5 minutes
 
PUBLISHING
Those Business Week Papers
Let's see. First Procter & Gamble sued Bankers Trust, saying it had been led down a too-risky investment path. A mass of papers quickly piled up -- lawyers tend to be good at that -- and a judge decided some of them weren't quite ready for public consumption. Then Business Week got hold of the sealed papers and smelled a scoop, a judge said no, and all sorts of First Amendment hell broke loose. Last week some smoke cleared, as the judge unsealed the documents, which seemed to bolster P.&G.'s case by disclosing losses at other companies from derivatives sold by Bankers Trust. But the free-speech issue was left smoldering, for the judge also insisted he had the right to stop publication. Now it's in the lap of the appeals courts.
 
CHARITY
Throwing Big Money at Cancer
It's all too familiar these days: a takeover, a merger, a little board-room back-scratching, and some executive walks away with a sum that would boggle the mind even if it lost a couple of zeroes. But last week came a stunning variation: the mind-numbing sum was going not to an executive but to science. Jon Huntsman, who made about $1 billion in chemicals, lost both parents to cancer and battled it twice himself. That was enough to prod him to say he'd give $100 million to a cancer research center at the University of Utah. That may be walking-around money to Ted Turner, but it's the largest individual gift ever to medical research. "It's been 26 years since a man walked on the moon," Mr. Huntsman said, and we're still battling cancer. He wants to win this one.
 
AUTOS
Speaking Out at Chrysler
The seat belts are off at Chrysler. Last week the chairman, Robert Eaton, lashed out at those he said wanted to "trash" the company -- mainly Kirk Kerkorian and Jerome York. He said Mr. Kerkorian, who now owns nearly 15 percent of Chrysler, "has no real knowledge" about what's happening and is merely out for "personal gain." He said Mr. Kerkorian and Mr. York -- the former Chrysler executive who's now in Mr. Kerkorian's camp -- are merely harming other shareholders by trying to gain control.

 
REAL ESTATE
Japanese for 'Low Rent'
Japanese real estate prices are so high they're almost an international joke (so long as someone else is paying them). So when you hear that they've plummeted -- by two-thirds or more -- in recent years, does that mean they're out of the stratosphere? Not exactly. You'll still spend $6,000 or so (every month!) to rent a modest suburban house, perhaps $4,000 for a one-bedroom Tokyo apartment; this is Japanese for "plummet." And it may not even last. Last week the I.M.F. forecast a recovery for the battered Japanese economy in 1996, though it did lower its estimate for the nation's growth this year. Rent 'em while you can.
 
CAREERS
The Mailroom Gambit
It is, so it's said, the American way: if you're near the top of your field, you make a good living. So you'd think that Jay Bonin, who's in the top 200 or so Americans in his chosen field, would be riding high. If he'd been a lawyer, he might have been one of the hundreds of that profession at the Simpson defense table; if he played baseball, he'd be out there spitting with the richest of them. But Mr. Bonin's great talent is chess. Yes, there's $1 million in prize money in the world championship match that was speeding toward a conclusion last week atop the World Trade Center, but in chess, if you're not at that pinnacle, you'd better have a day job. Mr. Bonin, brilliant at chess, makes a few thousand a year at it; by day, he's a mailroom clerk.
 
INNOVATIONS
Making Cats Easier to Love
There are, those tireless statisticians tell us, 63 million cats in this country. There'd be a lot fewer if it weren't for one Edward Lowe. Cats, you see, smell. Built for the desert, they use water with enviable efficiency, but the downside is that their urine . . . well, you know. To fight the odor, people tried sawdust, sand, wood shavings, but they weren't much help. Then one day in 1947 -- a watershed day in feline history -- Mr. Lowe had a neighbor try a dried, granulated clay used to sop up grease spills in factories. And, yes, Kitty Litter was born -- along with what is now a $600 million annual industry. And Mr. Lowe? In 1990 he sold his business for $200 million. And last week he died at age 75.
 
OPPORTUNITIES
Gulps of Premium Juice
Who has the most impact on this marvelous capitalist machine we inhabit? Well, one week it might be Bill Gates, the next week Newt Gingrich, and the next, Steven Spielberg. Last week, of course, it was 12 faceless jurors in a Los Angeles courtroom. They spoke, and this mighty economy -- which prides itself on packing every second chock full -- ground to a halt for long, long minutes. You could have heard a stock drop, if any had been trading; you could have heard the phone ring, if anyone had called. The jurors spoke, and whole conglomerates were born -- reported $1 million sales of photos of the reunion of the defendant (what was his name?) and his children, tales of $50 million pay-per-view blowout interviews, other interview deals, book deals, and then probably books about the book deals. And, yes, talk of a television drama series based on the lives of two DNA experts. And it's only just begun.
 
HEALTH CARE
Medicare Plan Under Fire
Medicare may well need patching up, but the Republicans' notions about how to do it took a lot of flak last week. First came the American Medical Association, which has kept silent for much of the recent debate but now voiced concern that limits on payments would scare too many doctors away. "It would be a major blow," said an A.M.A. spokesman. Then the A.A.R.P. joined the fray, saying Congress was cutting "too much, too fast" from projected spending. Newt Gingrich has been trying to get the elderly on his side, but he doesn't seem to have succeeded. And in a final attack, the head of the American College of Physicians said bluntly, "We are not on board."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (58%); PG (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); EARTH'S MOON (52%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (58%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); EARTH'S MOON (52%); 

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); CANCER (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); JUDGES (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); TAKEOVERS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); MERGERS (71%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MAJOR GIFTS (71%); ONCOLOGY (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (60%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%); APPEALS COURTS (52%); 

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



160 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Why the Market Likes Johnny-One-Notes . . . And Is Skeptical Of One-Man Bands

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI 

 BODY:
A FEW weeks ago, when Robert E. Allen, the chairman of AT&T, announced his plan to break the giant company into three pieces, he cited the stock market as one reason. "The market value of AT&T was being buried," he said. "Investors couldn't understand the strategy of the combined companies." And the market promptly agreed, sending AT&T's stock skyward.
Yet the market also loved it when Michael D. Eisner, the chairman of the Walt Disney Company, made his move to buy Capital Cities/ABC in a $19 billion deal that will expand Disney's reach into more areas of the media and entertainment world. 
 It seems that Wall Street can't make up its mind.
The reality is a little different. The focus sought by Mr. Allen is, in general, more highly valued by investors than the breadth Mr. Eisner is after, a new analysis conducted for The New York Times shows. The analysis, by Stern Stewart, a financial management advisory firm in New York, examined the 1,000 largest companies in market value. Companies less than five years old were excluded, as were financial services, real estate and electric utility companies.
The researchers found that the stock market does prefer "pure plays" -- one-business companies -- although the fact that these companies are usually small adds to their luster. The market is more skeptical about the value and future of big, complex, multibusiness corporations. And investors seem to believe a variation on Gresham's Law: A bad business will drive out the value provided by good ones.
Stern Stewart used two key measures, which it had devised, to reach its conclusion. The first, "economic value added," looks at how a company is doing in the books. It tracks whether a company is earning, on an operating basis and after taxes, more than its cost of capital. In 1993, the most recent year examined, only the single-business companies on average made money, when profits were adjusted in this way.
Judging from the second indicator, a comparison of each company's market value with all the capital that has been plowed into it over time, investors intuitively know that focus is better: they bid up stock prices of companies whose businesses are most concentrated.
On average, one-business companies created $2.27 in market value for every dollar invested in them, while companies with five or more businesses yielded $1.55. Put another way, the average market premium over book value was 127 percent for one-business companies, versus 55 percent for companies with five or more businesses.
The trend is so powerful that 79 focused businesses delivered more in market value than the $4.23 produced by the USG Corporation, the top performer in the most diversified batch.
The analysis did not take into account how dividends might have improved shareholder returns. But managers who could not even muster $1 of market value for every dollar entrusted to them are not doing much for shareholder wealth.
Individual companies with any number of businesses may shine, of course, -- H & R Block, the tax preparer, is one example of a complex business that generated nearly $7 in market value in 1993 for every dollar of capital invested in it. But the findings bolster the long-held suspicion that investors in general do better betting on focused companies.

GRAPHIC: Charts lists companies earning 1.5 percent or more above what they paid to raise capital and companies that created at least $6 in market value for every dollar of debt and equity invested.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (84%); USG (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (84%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (84%); NAICS423390 OTHER CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (60%); NAICS327420 GYPSUM PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STERN STEWART WALT DISNEY CO (84%); USG CORP (60%); ABC INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: STERN STEWART

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BONDS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (51%); 

PERSON: DOBRZYNSKI, JUDITH H MICHAEL D EISNER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



161 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST SIDE;
Heliport: New Lease And Quiet?

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
Residents of the high-rises along First Avenue in the 30's enjoy sweeping East River views. But for years, they have endured the staccato thunder of helicopters taking off and landing at the East 34th Street Heliport. Every few minutes, all day and late into the night, the whomp-whomp-whomp of propellers cutting the air halts conversation and drowns out televisions and stereos.
"Awful, terrible," said Luce Lauzon, who lives opposite the heliport at 401 East 34th Street. "It's nonstop. We have to keep the windows closed." Although the triple-glazed panes are designed to muffle noise, Ms. Lauzon said she has to keep the air-conditioners on so her children can sleep. 
 After years of such complaints, some relief is in the offing. The city's Economic Development Corporation, which oversees the heliport, said in an application for a new 10-year zoning permit that takeoffs and landings will be cut 47 percent next year, to approximately 28,000 or an average of 77 per day. "We're trying to balance the needs of the city's economy with the community's concerns," said Adam Brodsky, a development corporation spokesman.
But the proposed reduction does not appear to satisfy long-suffering neighbors. On Wednesday, Community Board 6 is expected to adopt a resolution calling for flights to begin at 8 A.M. and stop at 8 P.M. instead of the current 7 A.M. to 11 P.M. The board is also seeking a complete ban on weekend flights. "Give two days of peace and quiet so residents can enjoy the neighborhood they pay so dearly to live in," said William Oddo, its transportation chairman. The board's vote, however, is not binding on the Planning Commission and the City Council, which have the final say on zoning applications.
Right now, the heliport and its operator, National Helicopter Corporation of America, are in a legal limbo. National Helicopter's lease lapsed last week -- and the heliport's last zoning permit expired in 1976. For many years the company was unaware that a permit was needed, said Jay Segal, a lawyer for National Helicopter, and the application's environmental analysis turned out to be complex.
Mr. Oddo maintains that the site is ill-suited for aviation. "You have the world's busiest heliport operating on a postage stamp-size facility, no more than an acre," he said. Most flights are for sightseeing, which he said would be better handled at the heliport off Wall Street or the one along the Hudson River near the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. Both are in less residential areas and closer to tourist activities.
The East 34th Street Heliport's nearest neighbor, New York University Medical Center, complains that noise and fumes it generates bother patients and have forced the hospital to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on filtering. "The fumes cause eye, ear, nose and throat irritations and can get to the point where they are nauseating," said Jean Goldberg, an N.Y.U. environmental official. "Our Gimbel Gardens are virtually unusable because of the odors."
Mr. Segal, the lawyer, defended National Heliport. "They try to operate in a way that is the most safe and least noisy," he said. "The heliport provides a valuable service as a key part of the city's transportation system and as a thing tourists really like to do." He also pointed out that the heliport existed before most of the high-rise apartment towers nearby were built.
But pointing to the lack of both a lease and a zoning permit, Mr. Oddo of C.B. 6, called the heliport "an outlaw operation for two decades." BRUCE LAMBERT

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HELICOPTER CORP (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS; NOISE HELICOPTERS (90%); ZONING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); CITIES (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE WILLIAM ODDO (71%); JAY SEGAL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



162 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MIDTOWN/CLINTON;
Fur Trade Wanes, But Its Cradle Finds New Life

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
When Tom Gigi started in the fur business 40 years ago, West 30th Street from Avenue of the Americas to Eighth Avenue was thick with rack runners, jobbers and sewing-machine operators. "During lunch, you'd be forced into the street by the crowds," recalled Mr. Gigi, 65, a coat manufacturer. "It was a great time to be a furrier."
Although it remains the heart of the nation's fur trade, these days the fur district is more likely to house accountants or photographers than pelt merchants. "This used to be strictly a fur neighborhood, but we've seen a significant change in the past five years," said Vincent Terranova, executive vice president of Bernstein Real Estate. The company, which owns or manages 10 area buildings, says fur-related businesses have been supplanted by a hodgepodge of users, from newspaper publishers to carpet dealers to light-fixture makers. 
 Those furriers who survive tend to be concentrated in a handful of buildings, like 150 West 30th Street and 345 Seventh Avenue, Mr. Terranova said. Conversion of other bulky loft space south of Pennsylvania Station usually requires costly removal of storage vaults and refrigeration equipment. At 17 percent, the area's vacancy rate is much higher than a decade ago. Current rents on West 30th Street range from $8 to $12 a square foot, compared with $10 to $20 in the garment district, a few blocks north, where the economic picture has brightened somewhat in recent years.
But New York's fur industry has been buffeted hard by animal-rights advocates, a weak economy, cheap imports and a string of warm winters. And the future, some industry analysts say, looks even bleaker.
Nat Berkowitz, who opened Miller & Berkowitz furriers in 1950, knows only too well how times have changed. Customers who once bought a new coat every five years now make do with older furs or squeeze into those that do not quite fit. In summers past, his chilled vault at 224 West 30th Street overflowed with 8,000 coats left for storage by loyal clients. This year, the number is down to 6,500. "People would rather save the money," Mr. Berkowitz, 66, said. "It used to be that when you drove up the New York State Thruway to the Catskill resorts, there would be a mink stole hanging in every car window."
When Maureen Locke was looking for space to open her company, Versailles Lighting, the fur district was an obvious choice. Her husband's family has run Mechutan Fur on West 30th Street since the 1920's. "The fur business is going down the tubes, but I think this is a great neighborhood," said Ms. Locke, who has rented an entire floor above Miller and Berkowitz since June. She cited the district's reasonable rents, generous space and proximity to mass transit. "I can see Penn Station from my window," she said. "You can't beat that." ANDREW JACOBS

GRAPHIC: Photo: Space in the Fur District used to be scarce, but the fur business has dwindled. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FUR; INDUSTRY PROFILES REAL ESTATE (90%); FUR APPAREL STORES (90%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (90%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); APPAREL MFG (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (74%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (53%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



163 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Doesn't Stint on Defense Readiness

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Andrew Cockburn's "Swords Into Stock Shares" (Op-Ed, Oct. 3) incorrectly asserts that the Defense Department has slighted readiness to keep its procurement budget high.
From its peak in 1985, defense spending has fallen by 40 percent after inflation, and procurement is down 70 percent. The number of men and women serving in the active-duty military is 33 percent lower today than at the end of the cold war. 
 But this peace dividend has not come at the cost of readiness. In the drawdowns following World War II, Korea and Vietnam, readiness slipped badly. By contrast, the Clinton Administration has kept readiness high, favoring training, operations and maintenance over procurement. Our forces have performed well, wherever called -- in Rwanda, in Haiti and in the skies over Bosnia.
"The demands upon our forces these last two years have reinforced the wisdom of putting readiness first . . . near-term readiness today remains at historically high levels," the Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman, Gen. John Shalikashvili, recently told the Senate Armed Services Committee.
Other points in the article are wrong. In particular, Mr. Cockburn incorrectly states Defense Secretary William Perry, the Director of Central Intelligence, John M. Deutch, and Paul Kaminski, Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, "controlled" a defense contractor that received a small contract from the Defense Department. They do not control any Defense contractors.
An investment partnership in which they have interests, which they have not been able to sell, helped finance about a dozen small companies, including several that have won defense contracts. They have recused themselves completely from any dealings with these companies, and the Senate Armed Services Committee has approved these arrangements.
 
KENNETH H. BACON
Assistant to Secy. of Defense
for Public Affairs
Washington, Oct. 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RWANDA (79%); HAITI (79%); 

COMPANY: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RWANDA (79%); HAITI (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); KOREAN WAR (71%); CONTRACT AWARDS (70%); 

PERSON: BACON, KENNETH H (ASST SEC) JOEL V STAFF (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



164 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: Why Debt Ceiling Matters to Us All

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Roger C. Altman's "Real Price of Default" (Op-Ed, Oct. 1), on the possible consequences of a default on the United States debt because of Congressional refusal to raise the debt ceiling, only hints at the immediate catastrophic consequences of such an action. 
 The dollar is the international transaction currency: most international transfers of funds are made in United States dollars. The short-term United States Government securities market is closely tied to the international as well as domestic transfer of funds. Short-term United States securities serve as a source of liquidity and as a repository for temporarily idle funds.
If the debt ceiling is not raised, making it impossible to service these short-term obligations, they will become illiquid, instantly drying up the pool that serves international and domestic banking in its transfer function.
The dollar will then immediately lose its status as the global transaction currency. Holders of dollar assets in any form will sell to avoid losses. The resulting free fall in the international value of the dollar will force stringent currency controls and quickly terminate our ability to import such vital commodities as oil, except for direct payment of gold or foreign exchange.
Given the vast holdings of United States dollars and United States Government obligations in overseas private portfolios, no amount of central bank intervention will prevent such a disastrous flight from the dollar.
Even if Congress should rue its action the next day and raise the debt ceiling, international trust in the stability of our Government and its obligations will be compromised forever. A gallon of gas may cost $6. Is this what we want?
 
RICHARD HYSE
Oswego, N.Y., Oct. 2, 1995
 
The writer retired as professor of economics at SUNY.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; NATIONAL DEBT (US) DEBT CEILING (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); 

PERSON: HYSE, RICHARD ROGER ALTMAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



165 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 11; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: Pfizer's Role In Groton Schools

 BODY:
Kudos on your article ("For Groton, a Pfizer Commitment," Sept. 3). I would like you to know that this commitment is expressed in ways that were not described in the article. 
 The Pfizer Corporation has made a major commitment to advance the quality of science and mathematics programs, not only in the Groton public schools, but also in schools throughout southeastern Connecticut. In Groton, Pfizer has provided modern equipment to upgrade middle school science labs and has provided opportunities to our science teachers to work with Pfizer research scientists during the summer months. These teachers have been able to enrich their classroom instruction with this real world experience. Also, Pfizer encourages its employees to volunteer in our school in a variety of capacities. Pfizer then supports their employee volunteerism by donating funds to the schools in which they work. They are good neighbors who set a high standard for business-education partnerships. We are fortunate to have Pfizer in Groton.
GEORGE M. REILLY
The writer is Superintendent of Schools in Groton.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (90%); PFE (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (90%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC PFIZER INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: PFIZER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: GROTON (CONN); CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (87%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (70%); TRENDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: REILLY, GEORGE M

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



166 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

Today
 
The International Monetary Fund Group of 10 Finance Ministers and the I.M.F. Interim Committee meet.
 
Monday
 
Eugene A. Ludwig, the Comptroller of the currency, scheduled to speak at the American Bankers Association annual convention in San Francisco.
 
Columbus Day holiday. Banks and many government offices will be closed. Although stock and commodity markets will be open, the bond market is scheduled to be closed.
 
Tuesday
 
The board of directors of Apple Computer is scheduled to meet. The company's chief financial officer resigned last week and some analysts believe that the chief executive, Michael H. Spindler, will be asked to step down.
 
Bill Clinton and President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico to meet at the White House.
 
Ricki Tigert Helfer, chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, speaks at the American Bankers Association convention.

Wednesday
 
House Transportation Aviation subcommittee to consider proposals to overhaul the Federal Aviation Administration.
 
Thursday
 
The Labor Department reports the producer price index for September. Forecast: up 0.3 percent, following a 0.1 percent decline in August.
 
The I.M.F. and World Bank annual meetings are scheduled to conclude.
 
Friday
 
The Labor Department reports the consumer price index for September. Forecast: up 0.3 percent, following a 0.1 percent increase in August.
 
The Commerce Department releases September retail sales. Forecast: up 0.5 percent. They had risen 0.6 percent in August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (70%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRODUCER PRICES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); BONDS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



167 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Taking Heart in New York City

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
NEVER mind that Newt Gingrich and other New York bashers prattle on about the city. New Yorkers are harder on themselves. Never mind that for years Bleak Street has replaced Broadway as the economic thoroughfare. Take heart, New Yorkers -- from the outside, the city seems to be looking better.
"The whole perception of New York is that it has come back," said Dick Wolf, a television producer who has been filming "Law and Order" in the city for six years. Mr. Wolf began shooting a second series, "New York Undercover," two years ago. This year three more dramatic series, "Central Park West," "New York News" and "The Education of Matt Waters," are using the city as their backdrop, giving its streets and skyline their most pervasive television presence since the 1960's. 
 Although the city continues to lag behind much of the nation in job growth and business expansion, 1995 is proving to be a boom year, at least through the lens of the entertainment industry. In contrast to the 1980's, when the city's economy was driven mainly by finance and real estate development, economists say its most vibrant businesses now range from tourism to movie production, restaurant sales to computer software design.
Business executives and people in the arts say public sentiment about the city is shifting. More people want to be here, in the flesh or through the vicarious jolt of television and movies. Enhancing the city's reputation has been the influx of Hollywood luminaries like Steven Spielberg and Demi Moore.
Movie production has soared. City records show that a record high 157 movies were filmed last year, 56 more than in 1993. Patricia Reed Scott, commissioner of film, theater and broadcasting, said the 1994 television and movie production had pumped $4.3 billion into the city economy. Part of the resurgence in movies and television comes from hard-won concessions from local production crews whose 1990 labor dispute with the Alliance of Motion Producers brought filming to a virtual standstill. A settlement the following year laid the plans for this year's busy workload, Ms. Scott said.
Sales figures are not available for the city's 15,500 restaurants, but they had 129,300 workers in June, 3,300 more than a year earlier.
 
Multiplex and More
 "It's a boom time around here," said Michael O'Neal, owner of O'Neals', a West 64th Street restaurant that has been buoyed by increased attendance at Lincoln Center and several nearby movie theaters, including a huge new Sony multiplex. Business at O'Neals' is up 10 percent this year. And coming soon to the area are a Barnes & Noble bookstore and an enlarged Tower Records. The cultural density alone promises to make it a crossroads for glitterati, literati and assorted esthetes.
The number of passengers arriving at LaGuardia, Kennedy and Newark airports rose 2 percent during the first half of this year, according to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. The city's Convention and Visitors Bureau said hotel occupancy rose 4 percent in the first half of this year. Attendance at Broadway shows rose 12 percent, and ticket sales at tourist attractions like the Empire State Building and the Statue of Liberty rose 14 percent in the same period.
 
The Dollar and the Pope
 The city's appeal to foreign tourists has increased partly because of the low exchange rate of the dollar. A surge in visitors is particularly apparent this month because of the Pope's visit and the 50th anniversary of the United Nations.
Still, stubborn problems persist in the local economy, many of them rooted in the boom and bust of the 1980's. The city continues to lose jobs to Westchester County, northern New Jersey and Fairfield County, Conn. Banking, once one of its fastest growing industries, is now hemorrhaging jobs. A series of mergers and takeovers, including the proposed merger of Chemical Bank and Chase Manhattan, has reduced employment by 6,800, or 5.2 percent, over the last year, according to Federal data. Total employment in the city has risen only slightly, to 3 million from 2.9 million a year ago.
But economists say conditions in the city could be worse. "The fear was that New York would fall off when national growth slowed down," said John Weiting, New York Regional Commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. "But the city has held up well, and that has to be considered good news."
Another sign of promise, analysts say, is the recent spate of takeovers of television networks, including ABC and CBS and the Turner Broadcasting System, which is based in Atlanta but would have a New York City parent, Time Warner Inc., if its proposed merger is completed. Unlike corporate acquisitions that have led to layoffs, the media marriages could benefit the city. That is because the network takeovers have been spurred in part by Federal deregulation of broadcast entertainment, which will enable them to move more freely into film production and syndication.
"These New York companies can now deliver to larger audiences," said Mitchell Moss, a professor of economics and urban planning at New York University.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In New York City, there is a growing perception that a revival is taking place. Above, tourists visiting the Empire State Building. (Linda Rosier/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; MOTION PICTURES MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); TRENDS (90%); FILM (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (76%); BEGINNING OF FILMING (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RETAIL SALES (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (70%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); MOVIE THEATERS (68%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (66%); MUSIC STORES (63%); BOOKSTORES (61%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (51%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (51%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J STEVEN SPIELBERG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



168 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
One Revolution Is Enough in Mexico

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY

 BODY:
WHEN the price of rice shot up in the Philippines recently, thousands of people shut down the country's public transportation and set tires ablaze in Manila's streets to protest. When the Government of Mexico jacked up the price of tortillas for the third time this year -- making the flat corn cakes 50 percent more expensive than they were in 1994 -- nary a whimper was heard.
Mexico has been through a tough year in very serious ways -- impoverishment caused by a deep economic crisis, humiliation at having to beg the United States for help in solving the crisis and seemingly endless political scandals involving the ruling elite. A million more people are out of work than were a year ago, interest rates for a while topped 100 percent, and a series of assassinations still have not been satisfactorily solved. 
 But Mexicans today seem totally unwilling to mount sustained protest, let alone a revolt, against such conditions.
What's going on? Isn't this the Mexico that is famously proud of its 1910 Revolution, the Mexico always ready to give asylum and encouragement to revolutionaries from its Caribbean and Central American neighbors?
Curiously, perhaps, the reason Mexicans can show such remarkable self-restraint in the face of modern corruption, poverty and inept administration is that they know so much about rebellion -- not just the romance, but the cost.
This is a country where the names of Emiliano Zapata, Francisco "Pancho" Villa and other heroes of the 1910 Revolution are inscribed in gold letters on the walls of congress. The Mexican national anthem begins "Mexicans, onward to the shout of war."
At the same time, the country abhors violence, mostly out of bitter memory. The 1910 Revolution quickly succeeded in overthrowing the dictator Porfirio Diaz. But for most of the next decade Mexicans fought among themselves for power. A million Mexicans died. And in the end, the poor people for whom the Revolution had supposedly been fought were little better off than before, leaving the revolution unfinished.
 
Revolution Si, Rebellion No
 So one Revolution seems to have been enough. The political party that emerged from the chaos came to be called, incongruously, the Institutional Revolutionary Party, as if that one revolution could be institutionalized, providing a font of insurrectionary rhetoric without the need to ever launch another rebellion.
There have been other times in Mexico's recent past when it seemed that the country was set to blow, and only some thin strip of patience kept the country from crossing into chaos. Ten years ago, when an earthquake shattered great swaths of the city and left more than 10,000 people dead, the event was likened to a quake in Nicaragua in 1972 that proved a mighty spur to the uprising that later toppled the Somoza dictatorship there; in that case, even the middle class could not stomach the government's feeble and corrupt handling of reconstruction.
"The question everyone wanted to ask then was whether this earthquake was going to cause a revolution in Mexico too," said Manuel Camacho Solis, the former mayor of Mexico City.
Mr. Camacho said that discontent did grow in Mexico at the time, and that the country perhaps flirted with the possibility of widespread violence, but then backed away. In the process, Mexico made notable progress toward legitimizing local political organizing. Still, the P.R.I. remained in power, as it does to this day, and Mexico continues to be remarkably willing to bend without breaking.
Among the countries of Latin America, Mexico has traditionally been the most complacent, and in that regard most stable, said Jorge G. Castaneda, a Mexican political scientist who has studied opposition movements. He attributes Mexico's remarkable stoicism in part to the country's long and suffocating colonial past.
"It was in many ways the strongest colonial state, so it follows that it should have the weakest civil society," Mr. Castaneda said. "You can't have it both ways."
Mexican institutions have also done their part to keep the Mexican people in line for much of this century. Labor and the Government have long been allied, a condition that means unions often seem to have everything but workers' rights in mind. That became clear last May 1, Mexico's Labor Day.
At the time, because of the economic crisis, millions of people could not pay their debts and inflation had raised prices 8 percent in April alone -- an increase equal to the total for 1994.
Against that background, the Government braced for the worst during the May Day parade, traditionally an occasion for the unions to blow off some steam. But the cigar-chomping 95-year-old leader of the Mexican Confederation of Labor, Fidel Velazquez Sanchez, cancelled the parade, saying there was nothing for workers to celebrate (or, evidently, to protest against).
Social fuses are not always so easily extinguished. On Jan. 1, 1994, several hundred Maya Indians and disgruntled farm workers led by a small group of intellectuals shocked Mexico and the world by rising out of the Lacandona rain forest in Chiapas and declaring war on then-president Carlos Salinas de Gortari.
The rebels, calling themselves Zapatistas, vowed to march into Mexico City, but they found the rest of the country unwilling to pick up the revolutionary banner. In the end, the Zapatista uprising, by raising fears of chaos, probably helped the P.R.I. win the presidency again in August, following a campaign in which the party promised peace and stability.
 
Resignation as a Virtue
 With the demise of the Soviet Communist Party, the P.R.I. has taken over as the longest-ruling political party on Earth. Going 66 years without a change of power in Mexico has numbed many Mexicans, who see political activism as futile.
"Resignation," wrote Octavio Paz, referring to himself and other Mexicans, "is one of our most popular virtues."
Living in a seismically active region of the world also has contributed to a kind of fatalism about natural shocks and disasters. Economic crises return regularly as well (usually coinciding with the end of the six-year presidential terms).
The Zapatista call to arms did push some people like Anatolio Franco Bonifaz to take control of their own destinies, but not at all in the way the armed leaders of the movement had pictured. When Mr. Bonifaz, 30, was laid off as a waiter last April because the economic slowdown, on top of the Chiapas uprising, had dried up the resort business, he was angry and frustrated.
He went to see his brother in the dirt-poor Indian town of San Andres Larrainzar, where peace talks between the Government and the Zapatistas were about to start. Anticipating the hundreds of journalists, Government officials and onlookers who would crowd the village, Mr. Bonifaz and his wife opened a restaurant called "The Dialogue" in his brother's living room.
"I did it because of the same necessity as always here in Mexico," he said. "The only form of hope here is to continue to work."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An icon for Mexico: a rebel, circa 1914. (Photographs from Bettmann Archive); In the Mexican Revolution, rebel troops rush the federal lines under the protection of cannon fire. (Photographs from Bettmann Archive)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); PHILIPPINES (94%); NICARAGUA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (78%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (90%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (99%); PHILIPPINES (94%); NICARAGUA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (78%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (90%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TRENDS (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); SCANDALS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); POLITICS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); INTEREST RATES (54%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY; PAZ, OCTAVIO

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



169 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
It's Amtrak Against Everyone on the Road

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
DECLINING budgets make for shifting alliances. But would you believe the Highway Users Federation siding with the American Public Transit Association?
Against Amtrak? 
 Amtrak needs money, which is setting off a philosophical debate over subsidies by one mode of transportation to another, and by people of one economic class to another. And the rail line's quest for money has made the highway lobby -- oil companies, car manufacturers, construction interests and others -- a little nervous.
Since it was created in 1971, Amtrak has received over $13 billion, including nearly $1 billion for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30. The railroad now covers 81 percent of its operating costs from revenues, up from 48 percent in 1981. But Congress wants to eliminate subsidies soon.
Amtrak believes it could run without operating subsidies, if it had the capital for newer trains and better tracks. So it set its sights on a permanent source, a half cent of the 18-cent-a-gallon Federal gasoline tax.
 
Congress's Nickel
 The half penny is part of a five-cent increase that Congress put into effect in 1990. Beginning this fiscal year, 2 1/2 cents was supposed to go to the Highway Trust Fund, with half a cent going to the fund's mass-transit account.
It is a scrap, as taxes go, bringing about $2.50 a year from the average car. But the total comes to about $600 million.
The Senate Commerce Committee approved the idea of earmarking the money for Amtrak. But in the House, the chairman of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Bud Shuster, Republican of Pennsylvania, is not warm to the idea.
"Taking money out of the highway trust fund for Amtrak violates a basic commitment that we made, the first contract with America," he said. "It was between Dwight Eisenhower and the Congress, and it was, you pay your gasoline tax and we'll use that money to improve the nation's highways and bridges."
Amtrak's proposal also set off the public-transit lobby, its former ally, which is determined to keep what it has managed to siphon from the fund. "The half penny belongs to mass transit," said Jack R. Gilstrap, executive vice president of the American Public Transit Association. "Both Amtrak and the nation's transit providers are woefully short. Does weakening Peter to strengthen Paul help the traveling public?"
The road lobby is siding with the transit systems. Healthy bus and rail systems around cities reduce congestion far more than Amtrak does, says William D. Fay, president of the Highway Users Federation.
But what really worries Mr. Fay more than the half cent is that the Senate bill would let the states use highway money from Washington to help finance Amtrak.
And the states like Amtrak. When its board voted in April to cut about 22 percent of the system's miles, eight states stepped up with money to avert cuts. In all, states pay Amtrak about $70 million a year.
The road lobby also says this results in poor people with cars helping pay for richer people who ride trains. "It's a middle-class subsidy," said Charles J. DiBona, the president of the American Petroleum Institute.
But rail riders have subsidized others before, according to Philip M. Martin, an aviation consultant with Gellman Research Associates, of Jenkintown, Pa., and a former operations analyst at Conrail. The railroads had a trust fund, like the airlines and the highways, he said, but it was folded into the general fund in 1962. At that time, he said, "neither the air trust fund nor the highway trust funds were self-sufficient; they were still taking money from the general fund to pay for projects."
At a news conference where Amtrak made its pitch for the half cent, the Mayor of Meridian, Miss., John Robert Smith, extolled the city's new center where buses, taxis, airport limousines and trains all come together. "These modes should feed each other, not feed on each other," he said.
In principle, all parties agree.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The highway lobby and local public transit agencies would rather not share with Amtrak. Here, a train on the Seattle-to-Los-Angeles line. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%); AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; FINANCES; FEDERAL AID (US); TAXATION; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LOBBYING (89%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); GASOLINE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); APPROVALS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L WILLIAM D FAY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



170 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1718 words

HEADLINE: Black March Stirs Passion and Protests

BYLINE: By DON TERRY 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 7

 BODY:
Life is desperate and dangerous in Al Brown's faded neighborhood here. Drugs and poverty are efficient cold-blooded killers, and in the middle of any day of any week, it is easy to find dozens of young black men hanging out on the streets with no place to go to earn bread or pride.
But these days, Mr. Brown, a community advocate on Chicago's West Side, is more hopeful than he has been in years because of an upcoming blend of political parade and religious revival meeting in Washington called the Million Man March. The brainchild of Louis Farrakhan, the leader of the Nation of Islam, the march is stirring passions and debate. 
 March organizers hope that one million black men from all walks of life will answer Mr. Farrakhan's call for "A Holy Day of Atonement, Reconciliation and Responsibility" and gather in Washington on Oct. 16 to pray and protest and promise to return home better men.
"Finally, somebody is doing something," Mr. Brown said the other day as he passed out march fliers to young men along a sorry stretch of Madison Street. "The situation in black America is so bad now that it almost doesn't matter what that something is as long as it's some kind of action."
The goals of the march are vague, but it is generating excitement and arguments in black neighborhoods and on radio shows around the country. Some black men say the march represents a fresh bold step toward black unity and self-reliance in a national climate of racial tension, mistrust and government cutbacks.
For others, who say the idea of unity is laughable because black women have been told not to come, the march could signal the beginning of a regressive retreat into self-segregation and conservative politics.
Salim Muwakkil, a Chicago writer who plans to attend the march, likens it to the largely white men's Christian movement of so-called traditional and family values, the Promise Keepers, flavored with black nationalism.
"Historically, black people have always turned to black nationalism during hostile racial times," he said. "The Republican Contract With America shocked black people into believing that white America was finished with civil rights. Everywhere I go, people are talking about the march. I think it will be pivotal."
Mr. Farrakhan calls his march "a day of atonement," a chance for black men to apologize to "their women" and to God for not taking better care of their families.
It is also an opportunity, the Muslim minister says, for black men to declare to the country that they are ready, willing and able to serve and protect their own communities and children without the advice or consent of the government.
But even some supporters of the march, like Mr. Muwakkil, say they are put off by the talk of "atonement" because it seems to focus on black men more than on what many of them see as the real source of the nation's racial heartache: unemployment and institutional racism.
"The atonement talk certainly has the whiff of blame the victim," Mr. Muwakkil said. "But a lot of people are ignoring that. They say, 'That may be Farrakhan's reason for marching, but my reason is to let white America know we ain't going to take it any more.' "
The Rev. Henry J. Lyons, president of the largely black National Baptist Convention, which has 8.5 million members, said he was advising his followers not to take part because of theological differences with Mr. Farrakhan's Muslims and because women have not been included as full partners or participants.
"Because of these very strong differences," Mr. Lyons said, "I cannot under any circumstances support this march."
But dozens of other Christian ministers, including the Rev. Jesse Jackson and the Rev. Benjamin F. Chavis, the national director of the march, are encouraging the men in their congregations and organizations to attend. Even the American Jewish Congress has "enthusiastically" endorsed at least the goals of the march, said the group's executive director, Phil Baum.
"But we are concerned with it being organized by Mr. Farrakhan," Mr. Baum said, adding that he was "disappointed that so many of our friends in the black leadership" have apparently embraced Mr. Farrakhan. In a news release, the Congress called Mr. Farrakhan "one of the country's most prominent and unrepentant public bigots."
On Tuesday, Mr. Jackson met with several leaders of Jewish groups in New York to discuss the goals of the march. Mr. Baum said the meeting was helpful, but his concerns about Mr. Farrakhan's role remained.
In Washington, a White House spokesman said that President Clinton supported the march's goals of having people think about their responsibilities to families, themselves and communities but that he had some concerns about the gathering.
Adolph Reed, a black professor of political science at Northwestern University, who does not plan to be one of the million, said, "The message of Farrakhan's march is fundamentally conservative and blatantly sexist."
March organizers say that since black women have made countless sacrifices for their families and communities over the years, the march is a signal that it is time for black men to stand up and relieve them of their burden. The women and the men who do not go are being asked to observe "a day of absence" by staying indoors and not shopping.
"But Farrakhan," Mr. Reed said, "is not really rocking any boats of the white elite. This is his ploy to be designated as a legitimate race spokesman or, at the least, to get on the guest list of 'Nightline.' "
Mr. Farrakhan proposed the march more than a year ago but for months received little support for his vision beyond his Nation of Islam.
But, in recent months and weeks, with affirmative action under attack, jobs steadily disappearing from the inner city and police abuse and corruption scandals from Philadelphia to Los Angeles, a cross section of black leadership has climbed onto Mr. Farrakhan's bandwagon.
Ministers, nationalists, Pan Africanists, fraternities, sororities, Elks, Masons and the Congressional Black Caucus have endorsed the march.
Still, no one knows how many black men will actually show up in Washington. Estimates run from 50,000 to more than one million. Mr. Chavis said more than 11,100 buses and 100 airplanes had been chartered to take people to the march.
The "march," in fact, is envisioned as more of "a gathering" by organizers, who envision an assembly 23 blocks long, facing the Capitol. They say they chose to hold it on a workday to show a willingness to sacrifice a payday.
In Oxford, N.C., population 8,000, the funeral home owner, George W. Wright, is the local march organizer. He said people there could afford only one bus but if they had the money, "we could fill at least three."
"I'm paying for the one bus we do have," Mr. Wright said. "I personally know hundreds of people who would like to go and can't afford to. They can't take off of work because it takes every penny and nickel to provide for their families."
In Chicago, organizers say nearly 50,000 men will board buses and go to Washington. Every Monday night for months, dozens of black men and women have met in a church on the city's South Side to plan the march and raise money.
"The grass roots are on fire," said the Rev. Al Sampson, a Chicago march organizer.
Mr. Chavis, the former director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, said he expected more than 1.2 million black men to attend. If even half that number shows up, the march will more than double the size of the famous 1963 March on Washington, when the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. electrified 250,000 men and women of all colors with his "I have a dream" speech, imploring the country to live up to its ideals of fairness.
The march has been shrouded in other controversies, including charges of sexism.
"The emphasis on black manhood as a solution is dangerous," said Michelle Boyd, a 25-year-old black graduate student. "Women are put on the back burner. That's not the direction we should be going in. Our flags ought to be going up."
In a concession to women, march organizers have added Rosa Parks, the civil rights legend, and Maya Angelou, the poet, to the list of speakers.
A committee is putting the finishing touches on the march's manifesto, and organizers say they intend to begin registering eight million unregistered voters in time for the election next year.
In the beginning, the march was more spiritual than political. Talk of God and morality remain central, but political issues have elbowed their way onto the agenda as the idea for the march has spread and pulled together a diverse group of supporters. Robert T. Starks, a professor of political science at Northeastern Illinois University in Chicago, is the chairman of the march's manifesto committee.
"We know what we are going to ask for," Mr. Starks said. "We're just refining the words. We're talking about racism and cutbacks in education. We're talking about redistricting and forcing blacks out of office. We have a political agenda. There's no doubt about that."
In Chicago, it is Mr. Brown's self-appointed mission to persuade more brothers to make the trip.
On a recent afternoon, Mr. Brown, along with C. B. Johnson, who runs a drug prevention and treatment program, and Marion Jackson, a volunteer with an anti-drug program, gathered up a bunch of march fliers and charter bus sign-up sheets and went into the streets searching for recruits.
One of their stops was the Moler Barber College, a school for both men and women, where Mr. Johnson asked Marian Parker if he could leave some fliers. "It's time for us as black men to stand up," he said.
"That's right," Mrs. Parker said.
"It's time for us to atone for our actions," Mr. Johnson said.
"Right on," Mrs. Parker said. "Could you leave some more of these? I got a shop on the South Side."
Willya Holmes, a poet who was getting her hair done, asked Mr. Johnson: "Where do you go from here? This march is just one day."
"That's true," Mr. Johnson said. "The real work starts on Oct. 17, when we get back home."
"What are you going to do?"
"I'm going to stand up and be a man."
"It takes a march for you to do that?" asked Shantelle Weathers, 19.
"Naw," Mr. Johnson said. "I do that anyway."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In many neighborhoods, like those on Chicago's West Side, community advocates, including Al Brown, left, say they are becoming more hopeful because of the upcoming Million Man March. Recently, he, C. B. Johnson, center, and Larry Hairly recruited for the event, in Washington on Oct. 16. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATION OF ISLAM NATION OF ISLAM (83%); NATION OF ISLAM (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATION OF ISLAM NATION OF ISLAM (83%); NATION OF ISLAM (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; MEN; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; WOMEN RELIGION (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MEN (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); FAMILY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CHILDREN (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (75%); POLITICS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); WOMEN (75%); RIOTS (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON; FARRAKHAN, LOUIS SIR GEORGE YOUNG (73%); LOUIS FARRAKHAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



171 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Proud of Gains, Finance Ministers Encourage Dollar's Rebound

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7

 BODY:
Finance Ministers of the world's seven biggest industrial nations today welcomed the dollar's recent climb on currency markets and made clear they do not think it has risen too high.
In a strikingly self-congratulatory statement issued after a day of talks here, the ministers said they welcomed "the orderly reversal in the movements of major currencies that began following their April meeting," when a weak dollar checked its slide and the strong Japanese and German currencies began to decline. 
 The ministers said they would "welcome a continuation of these trends consistent with underlying economic fundamentals," indicating that they would like to see the dollar move a bit higher and the yen lower, but without pricing American exports out of foreign markets or making Japanese goods too inexpensive here, further swelling the United States trade deficit.
The ministers also reaffirmed their commitment "to reduce imbalances and cooperate closely in exchange markets," a veiled warning to foreign exchange dealers not to push the currencies opposite their recent favorable trends, a move that could possibly bring another round of coordinated intervention by the nations' central banks.
The ministers of the so-called Group of Seven -- the United States, Britain, France, Italy, Canada, Germany and Japan -- agreed that all their countries must do more to reduce budget deficits in order to lower interest rates and stimulate global economic growth. But they also said that "in most countries the conditions for continued growth and employment gains are in place and inflation is well under control or declining."
But at a news conference after the meeting, the United States Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, entered a caveat on Japan. He said that Japan's latest stimulus package might succeed in ending four years of economic stagnation there, sparking more growth and increasing foreign imports, but he warned that Japan must also be ready "to take additional measures" if the recovery proves disappointing.
The First Deputy Prime Minister of Russia, Anatoli B. Chubais, also attended today's meeting, and the ministers congratulated him on signs that Russia's economy appeared finally to be pulling itself out of its recent collapse, helped by large foreign loan infusions and debt forgiveness. They urged Moscow to stick with the painful austerity measures that the ministers said are now starting to bear fruit.
Finally, the ministers asked the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to start preparing money to help in the post-war reconstruction of Bosnia if current peace efforts succeed.
Representatives of the world's developing nations, meanwhile, appealed today to the United States Congress to restore planned cuts in America's contribution to a key international aid agency. Finance ministers of the so-called Group of 24, which represents the developing world in international monetary negotiations, asked Congress to "reconsider the magnitude of U.S. contributions" to the World Bank's soft loan agency, known as the International Development Association, "in order to attain the level originally committed."
Such reconsideration, the ministers said in a communique, "should take into account not only the enlightened long-term self-interest of donor countries but also the moral and social issues involved."
The appeal came as House and Senate leaders are to meet next week to thrash out a compromise American aid bill that may cut the United States contribution to the development association by half or more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; CANADA; ITALY; FRANCE; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BUDGETS (79%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (65%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



172 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1613 words

HEADLINE: Buchanan's Tough Tariff Talk Rattles G.O.P.

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: FORT DODGE, Iowa, Oct. 3

 BODY:
When Republican contenders for President swing through Iowa's farm towns searching for votes in the first caucuses of the electoral season, there is a monotonous ring to their economic prescriptions for America.
A flat tax, cutting the Internal Revenue Service down to size, slashing taxes on capital gains and inheritances and re-engineering Medicare are advocated by all the candidates. And almost all endorse the traditional favorite cause of the Republican Party, free trade. 
 But not the economic maverick of the Republican race, Patrick J. Buchanan. Mr. Buchanan, the former speechwriter for Richard Nixon and communications director for Ronald Reagan, who is rolling through Iowa in a giant Winnebago ("Caution: Future President Aboard" proclaims its bumper sticker) with a message of unapologetic economic nationalism. People seem to be listening -- particularly his rivals for the nomination, whom Mr. Buchanan is dragging to the right -- and that only makes the former conservative counterpoint of CNN's "Crossfire" all the bolder.
He is striking a surprisingly responsive chord here and in New Hampshire, drawing respectable crowds and placing second or third to Senator Bob Dole of Kansas in polls, and often neck-and-neck with Senator Phil Gramm of Texas. Both men have supported President Clinton's free-trade initiatives and Republican strategists say Mr. Buchanan's early success is forcing the two lead candidates to adjust their rhetoric to capture his following.
The White House is trying to capitalize on the shift: top Administration officials including Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin have seized on Mr. Buchanan's campaign as the embodiment of a new and dangerous form of isolationism.
Mr. Buchanan calls it pragmatism. Big budget deficits? How about helping finance the Federal Government with a 10 percent tariff on every import from Japan, Mr. Buchanan tells his audiences here, until its trade deficit with the United States disappears? For the Chinese, a 20 percent tariff, a quick way to teach them a lesson early about running up Japanese-scale trade surpluses and imprisoning dissidents. As the crowds warm up, Mr. Buchanan goes into his plans for a "social tariff" on products made in Mexico and other developing economies to "insulate us from un-American competition with workers making 75 cents or a dollar an hour."
Japan and Germany, he argues, "are countries out to win industrial supremacy, which leads to economic supremacy, which then leads to military and geopolitical supremacy." "If we don't put America first, who will? You think the Prime Minister over in Japan will? No way."
Mr. Buchanan's solutions -- including a five-year suspension of all immigration until American wages begin to grow again -- are denounced by his many critics as an isolationist and protectionist fantasy, an emotional appeal to workers who long for a return to the workplace stability of the 1950's and 60's, when America's economic power in the world loomed far larger. Certainly Mr. Buchanan's strategy would overturn the economic order pursued by Republican and Democratic administrations for 50 years and violate the country's trade accords with its biggest economic partners -- accords Mr. Buchanan says must be scrapped anyway because they undercut America's ability to control its own economic destiny.
Mr. Buchanan's views are the polar opposite of the Clinton Administration's economic policy of the past three years. Now, many in the White House view his candidacy as a chance to cast the Republicans as extreme isolationists who are unable to distinguish between short-term pain and long-term strategies for enhancing both American exports and American influence. Mr. Christopher referred to Mr. Buchanan recently as "the strident voice" on immigration and economic integration with the world, whose views are the antithesis of the "Administration's conviction that we should not erect barriers around this country."
Speaking along with Mr. Christopher in Washington, Mr. Rubin also referred to Mr. Buchanan, saying, "I think it should be very important in the '96 campaign to have a debate on international economic policy -- whether we should retreat, or continue the path that the President has taken, which is to engage with the world and take a true leadership role."
But Mr. Rubin concedes that Mr. Buchanan has struck a real chord, one linked to the insecurity felt by a wide variety of American workers despite three years of solid economic growth, and growing confidence about America's competitive prowess. That insecurity is not only one of Mr. Clinton's largest challenges as the campaign approaches, it is one of the reasons the Republican Party is going through such a wrenching change.
Mr. Buchanan is betting that the national mood has swung in his direction, and "what will come out of this is a new kind of coalition -- Perot people, right-to-life groups and gun owners, and economic nationalists."
"My problem is the Republican establishment," he said.
To travel with Mr. Buchanan these days is to witness the rapid fraying of the free trade, pro-big business philosophy that has dominated the Republican Party for decades. Like the freshmen Republicans, he makes corporate America his favorite target, arguing that his tariff system would teach them a little patriotism by penalizing firms that ship jobs to Mexico or Singapore and then export their products back to the United States.
"If the corporate chieftains don't care about the U.S.A.," he says, in a line that regularly draws big cheers, "I don't care about them."
After a rally in a hotel here, Mr. Buchanan said, "Economic nationalism can move these folks." Many of the 100 farmers and small business owners at the rally said they were drawn by Mr. Buchanan's fervent opposition to abortion and to any American participation in United Nations peacekeeping efforts in Bosnia, Rwanda, "or anyplace else where we have no national interest." But many others said they were followers of Ross Perot, and found in Mr. Buchanan an economic ideology compatible with the one Mr. Perot espoused in the 1992 campaign.
He goes considerably further, however, than Mr. Perot ever did. Mr. Perot fought the North American Trade Agreement, and turned the debate into a far broader argument over whether free trade remains in the American interest. Mr. Buchanan has taken the next step, regularly denouncing the far bigger world trade accord, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, that was passed in a lame-duck session of Congress in November, with support from Mr. Dole and Mr. Gramm.
Most of Mr. Buchanan's audiences seem only vaguely aware of the details of the treaty, which lowered tariff barriers around the world. But they perk up when Mr. Buchanan starts an attack on the World Trade Organization, the Geneva-based group that, under the treaty, became the new arbiter of international trade rules and that would almost certainly find his unilateral tariffs on Japan and China a violation of those rules.
In Mr. Buchanan's stock speech, the trade organization becomes another example of how the United States has "handed off its sovereignty" to non-Americans, placing its future in the hands of "organizations that give Fidel Castro a vote that is equal to America's." If he wins office, he told Iowans this week, "we're out of NAFTA, and we're out of the W.T.O."
"When I raise my hand to take the oath of office, this whole new world order is coming crashing down," he vows.
The tariff talk makes farmers understandably nervous, because it would invite retaliation against agricultural products -- Japan's biggest import from the United States. Mr. Gramm has already told Iowans that Mr. Buchanan's tariffs would turn their state "into a dust bowl."
"This isn't all that fertile ground for the tariffs argument," Mr. Buchanan concedes. "It goes over better in New Hampshire."
Not surprisingly, Mr. Buchanan skips past any discussion of the millions of jobs created as the American economy expanded in recent years, and dismisses the Administration's claim that the North American Free Trade Agreement supports 2.5 million jobs and has "protected" 700,000 jobs that were threatened by Mexico's downturn. He spins out a stream of examples of plant closings and consolidations that he characterizes as the price of free trade: Eveready Battery Company's operations moved from Iowa to the industrial outskirts of Singapore, the use of low-paid Mexicans by one of Iowa's biggest beef packers. History, Mr. Buchanan insists, is on his side. "Look at the period of 1865 to 1914, the era of our highest tariffs," Mr. Buchanan said over breakfast here as his shoestring campaign -- he travels with only one aide and his wife, Shelley -- prepared for several hundred miles of travel. "Real wages soared. American manufacturing became the envy of the world. I don't care what the economists in all those think-tanks in Washington say about the benefits of free trade -- I once believed all that, too, when I was with Nixon and Reagan. But the case has never been proven."
Mr. Buchanan insists that he is not trying to insulate the American economy from worldwide competition. The question is whether such arguments have much staying power on the campaign trail, where trade -- with all of its complexities, and long-term, short-term trade-offs -- has never survived as a topic of debate. Mr. Buchanan, however, promises to keep going as long as his campaign coffers hold out.
"This is a great way to make a living if you're unemployed," he said after a morning speech to college students.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patrick J. Buchanan, who spoke recently at a rally in Sioux City, Iowa, has set himself apart from other Republican Presidential candidates by demanding higher tariffs and denouncing international trade pacts. (Associated Press) (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (71%); IOWA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ISOLATIONISM (US) TAXES & TAXATION (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); MEDICARE (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); IMMIGRATION (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: GRAMM, PHIL (SEN); DOLE, BOB (SEN); BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E RONALD REAGAN (79%); PHIL GRAMM (73%); BILL CLINTON (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



173 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Aides See Congress As Impeding Reforms

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
Keenly aware of repeated calls from Washington for reform, the highest-ranking American official in the United Nations system asked the leaders of the international organization to come to a meeting later in October with concrete, written proposals for better management and cost-cutting. He was prepared for action.
The meeting, which would have brought together agency directors from headquarters around the world, has now been canceled. It was a victim of a budget crisis brought on in large measure by the United States' failure to pay its past assessments and threats from Congress of severe future cuts in contributions. 
 "The tragedy is that those who say they want United Nations reform are cutting off at the knees the Americans who are able to deliver it," said James Gustave Speth, the official whose meeting was scratched. "The United States will pay dearly for squandering years of past investment in the United Nations, right at the moment it is beginning to pay off."
Mr. Speth, who is administrator of the United Nations Development Program and holds the rank of Under Secretary General, is also the coordinator and adviser on reform to Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali. A Clinton Administration appointee, Mr. Speth directs much of his criticism at Congress, where committees dealing with spending on foreign affairs are now controlled by Republicans opposed to participation in many international organizations.
Mr. Speth's agency, which assists 136 poor nations with development and represents the United Nations in a diplomatic role in capitals abroad, faces a cut. It could lose up to 45 percent of its budget request, down to $60 million to $70 million, when a Congressional conference committee meets on Wednesday to decide on what are called voluntary contributions beyond the fixed assessments owed to the United Nations organizational budget and peacekeeping.
Mr. Speth, a founder of the independent World Resources Institute and its president until 1993, said in an interview on Wednesday that Congress was "making reform synonymous with cuts."
"The whole reform effort has become associated in the minds of many countries here with severe financial cuts in all U.N. budgets," he said. "Many governments see this as an effort to create a small 'boutique' U.N. and not an institution that can help the world overcome the huge problems it faces."
But to people at the United Nations, the American policy looks bipartisan. Despite President Clinton's speech on Friday in which he called for the United States to pay its bills, the Administration is still linking reform and payments. An Administration official said in an interview after the speech that this was deliberate and would not change.
"The reality of the U.N. system is that without a strong and powerful motivation, nothing really changes," this official said. "That's why we're determined to combine reform and financial issues and not pretend there is no linkage."
Throughout the United Nations system and in its missions, officials say that if the trend continues, it will not be long before the United States will begin to lose leadership positions in major agencies. Americans now head Unicef and the World Food Program, in addition to the Development Program.
Europeans, who argue that the aggregate contributions of the European Union are overtaking American payments in many areas, waged a strong campaign to capture Unicef earlier this year. After intense lobbying by Madeleine K. Albright, the American representative at the United Nations, aided by Hillary Rodham Clinton, Carol Bellamy, former City Council Chairman in New York, was selected instead of a European.
"It's not much fun to be an American working here these days," an administrative staff member said this week, adding that there had been a significant rise in resentment toward Americans not felt since the end of the cold war.
John L. Washburn, a former State Department official and political adviser to the previous Secretary General, Javier Perez de Cuellar, said, "The law of perverse consequences has set in on reform."
But Mr. Washburn, who serves on the board of the United Nations Association of New York, a support group, said the United Nations must take a lot of the blame for Congressional and public attitudes because it did not "stand up for itself" or explain better what it does. He added that the United Nations also did not draw enough on private American organizations working on similar world issues, groups that could build bridges to the public.
"We're dealing in Congress with people who don't know the United Nations at all," an official who monitors Congress said recently. Another United Nations Congressional liaison officer said that over the last year, hostility toward the organization had become so pronounced that requests for meetings even to present information had been denied.
Congressional leaders, including Representative Benjamin A. Gilman, the New York Republican who heads the House International Relations Committee, and Senator Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican who is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, have directed much of their criticism at the bloated size of the United Nations bureaucracy and waste.
Mr. Speth, calling this image of the United Nations "simply wrong," said that the institution had already improved its management and that it was the best vehicle to deal effectively with huge global social problems like disease, hunger, population, migration and the environment.
"Poverty is growing faster than population," he said. "There are scores of countries where progress is going backwards rather than forwards. Rich countries are not going to be able to build a wall around themselves and shut themselves off. These problems don't need passports.
"If we don't, as an international community, deal with these problems in a preventive, early, humane way, we will pay very dearly down the road for the neglect."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (55%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (55%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); RANKINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); 

PERSON: SPETH, JAMES GUSTAVE (UNDER SEC GEN); CROSSETTE, BARBARA BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



174 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Black Conservatives, Meeting in Capital, Say Answers for Their People Lie in G.O.P.

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7

 BODY:
J. Kenneth Blackwell likens big government to the Mad Hatter's tea party: as guests make a mess at one place setting, they move down to the next one, never cleaning up the messes they leave behind.
Mr. Blackwell, the Treasurer of the State of Ohio, is a conservative Republican, a critic of big government and a champion of family, work, education, faith and freedom. He is also black. 
 "Limited government is conservative, and I believe that because of my parents, Dana and Joyce Blackwell, not because of Pat Buchanan or Phyllis Schlafly," Mr. Blackwell said.
That remark brought laughter and applause of agreement here today at the second annual National Leadership Conference, a gathering of black conservatives sponsored by National Minority Politics magazine, a nine-year-old publication with a black conservative message.
At a time when their neighborhoods are coming apart under an onslaught of social ills -- from teen-age pregnancy to the high percentage of young men in the criminal justice system -- blacks are looking for answers in everything from the coming Million Man March, organized by Louis Farrakhan, to efforts to re-energize longtime civil rights organizations like the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
Mr. Blackwell and a number of other black conservatives believe that the answers lie in the Republican Party.
The term "black Republican" has been a virtual oxymoron ever since the New Deal. Indeed, national polls suggest that only seven percent of blacks today consider themselves Republican.
But while the numbers remain small, there was evidence during the 1994 election campaign that blacks were developing an increasing interest in what has become a Republican message of conservative family values.
One of those who want to see the trend accelerate is Jack F. Kemp, who spoke here today to an audience of about 100 conference participants. Mr. Kemp, former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, won applause not only with a rousing call for "unleashing the power of enterprise" of the poor but also for saying Republicans had to deal with their own lack of past action against segregation and racial bias.
"It is inconceivable that America can move into the 21st century unless it deals with its white-black relations," said Mr. Kemp, who chided his party for not doing more to attract black voters.
Offering an example of missed opportunities, he drew on a passage from "Parting the Waters," Taylor Branch's 1990 book about the civil rights era. The book recalls that after the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was jailed in Atlanta for an old traffic violation during the 1960 Presidential campaign, the Democratic nominee, Senator John F. Kennedy, called Mr. King's wife, Coretta, to express concern. The Republican nominee, Vice President Richard M. Nixon, was dissuaded from doing so for fear of losing the votes of Southern whites.
"Nixon went from a 70 percent approval rating among blacks to 10 percent" during the campaign, Mr. Kemp said. "Kennedy, who had no record on civil rights, went from 10 to 70."
"The Republican Party made a mistake about not talking" of racial discrimination in general, Mr. Kemp said, "because I think most white people in this country -- and I'm not talking about Mark Fuhrman or the skinheads, but most white people -- feel that we're all in this together. This is at the heart of the feeling for General Powell."
All the current crop of Republican Presidential candidates were invited to address the conference, but only two accepted. One was Representative Robert K. Dornan of California, whose talk was scheduled for tonight. The other was Patrick J. Buchanan, who spoke this afternoon.
Mr. Buchanan, whose nostalgic elegies on a bygone America appeal mostly to whites, touched on race only briefly before focusing on economics, his opposition to the the North American Free Trade Agreement and his proposal to impose a five-year suspension on immigration.
"We've got to create economic bonds, and that will solve some of the problem," said Mr. Buchanan, who described blacks as "solid and stable and natural allies and friends of the Republican Party."
Reiterating his distaste for affirmative action, he said: "We've got to end all discrimination. We can't cure past wrongs by creating new ones."
There was considerable sympathy for Mr. Buchanan's stance against affirmative action, and the audience gave him, as it gave Mr. Kemp, a standing ovation at the end of his talk. There was a lot less enthusiasm, though -- indeed, no response at all -- when he described O. J. Simpson's acquittal as an "injustice."
Most in the audience were young people, in their late 20's or early 30's. Many of them said the Republicans offered a genuine alternative to the Democratic Party, which, they said, takes for granted support from the black civil rights establishment.
At the same time, they said, the Republican Party must do more to reach out to blacks.
"The African-American Republican vote could be the untapped gold mine for the Republican Party," said Henry McKoy, a black State Senator from North Carolina. "But you have to court the black community. Democrats have put up a sign in the black community: 'Republicans, off limits.' Republicans see the sign and go away. I walked right up to it and kicked it down, because the Democrats and the liberals have not been serving that community."
Mr. McKoy pointed out that he had won as a Republican in a county that is 62 percent Democratic and 28 percent black.
Despite a renewed interest in the Republican Party, though, there will have to be a sea change before blacks as a whole flock to it, said David Bositis Sr., a political analyst for the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a black research organization.
"The black community has strong sentiment for using government to solve problems," Mr. Bositis said in an interview from his office here. "That is not the way the Republicans feel. That is the crucial dividing line between Republicans and Democrats."
Mr. Blackwell disagrees. For his audience today, he defined a difference between conservatives and liberals: A liberal sees a drowning man 50 feet from shore, throws a 100-foot line and lets his end go. A conservative throws a 25-foot line and holds tight.
"We're looking for someone to hold the line," he said. "But the swim will do the man good."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL MINORITY POLITICS (MAGAZINE) NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MINORITY POLITICS (MAGAZINE) REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BLACKS; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 CONSERVATISM (92%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); CIVIL RIGHTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FAMILY (76%); MEN (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (53%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: DE WITT, KAREN MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



175 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1552 words

HEADLINE: PLAN FOR TAX CUT NEARS A KEY TEST

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7

 BODY:
Congress returns on Tuesday to plunge into a final and potentially decisive struggle with the White House for control of the national fiscal destiny, led by a test of Republican muscle on a central issue: tax cuts.
That test comes next week in the Senate Finance Committee, which just last week approved a contentious plan to reduce projected Medicare spending by $270 billion over seven years. Now, it is scheduled to take up a Republican proposal to cut taxes by $245 billion over the same period as part of a sweeping bill that covers health, welfare and other spending totaling a third of the entire Federal budget. 
 In his radio address today, President Clinton called on Congress to defeat the Republican measures saying: "They may call it a tax cut, but if you are a working American it will feel like a tax increase to you."
The tax cut will die without the votes of all 11 Republicans on the panel; the Finance Committee's nine Democrats are united against it. This weekend at least one of the Republicans, Senator Frank H. Murkowski of Alaska, indicated he was still undecided.
In an interview, Mr. Murkowski said he would propose next week that much of the money now earmarked for a tax cut be used instead to start paying down the national debt, which stands at $4.9 trillion. The money Mr. Murkowski proposed to tap, about $170 billion of the $245 billion, is a so-called dividend that some experts say the economy would generate from the healthy effects of balancing the annual Federal budget. The Republicans in the Senate have always said that dividend should be set aside to help pay for a tax cut.
"I happen to think that when you're packing a deficit of $165 billion a year and an accumulated debt of $4.9 trillion and you're paying about 14 percent of your budget for interest on the debt, that you'd better do something about it," he said. "Fiscally responsible economics dictates that you put this economic dividend into reduction of our accumulated debt."
Mr. Murkowski said he was "obviously outnumbered" by his fellow Republicans and he predicted that some legislative package that includes a tax cut would work its way out of the committee and onto the Senate floor.
But if he holds fast, the Republicans could face a standoff, because another of their ranks on the panel, Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, has vowed to oppose any seven-year tax cut below $245 billion.
The tax issue is but one headache in what promises to be a season of political migraines for the Republicans and their revolutionary budget-cutting proposal. Despite Republican predictions that their spending plans will be complete before Thanksgiving, few experts expect the budget wars to end before the December holiday season, and some say they could spill into next year.
Many say part of the Government will grind to a standstill, halted by the lack of a legal budget or authority to borrow, before the fight ends.
The Democrats, who have mounted feeble opposition to the Republican plans so far, spent their one-week recess on a publicity blitz, charging repeatedly that Republicans are plundering Medicare to finance a vast shift of tax money to the rich.
President Clinton today stepped up his criticism of the Republican tax package claiming it would add up to "$148 billion worth of direct and indirect hidden taxes which will hit working Americans hard."
"Most unbelievably of all," Mr. Clinton said, "17 million working families who seek to share in the American dream will have to pay $42 billion in income taxes through reductions in the Earned Income Tax Credits for working families."
Some Republicans acknowledged last week that the Democratic attacks were finally drawing blood, but said they knew that spending reductions in popular programs would not be met with wild enthusiasm. "Frankly, we expected it would be at this level a month ago," said one Republican aide on the House Ways and Means Committee, the Senate Finance panel's counterpart.
Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, another Republican on the Finance Committee, said he believed the panel would produce a spending bill with the full $245 billion tax cut and that Mr. Clinton would veto it. But he predicted the two sides would eventually strike a deal.
"Deep down, he has pretty good instincts on this stuff," Mr. Hatch said of the President. But as long as Mr. Clinton and the Democrats "keep demagoguing the tax issue, Republicans are going to stick it to them, frankly," he added.
But a showdown with Mr. Clinton is at least weeks away. The Republicans' most immediate concern is to keep their narrow House and Senate majorities intact and push their budget through Congress. And while the party has proved amazingly unified so far, some annoying splits developed in recent weeks and the biggest trials lie ahead.
The House and Senate have passed most of the 13 bills, totaling about half the budget, that will pay to run the Federal bureaucracy and some programs in the fiscal year that began Oct. 1. But their versions often differ markedly, and so far lawmakers have approved three compromises and rejected three others.
The House stunned its leaders late last month and voted down a compromise military spending bill when a cadre of populist Republicans, including some who wanted to cut weapons spending to reduce the deficit further, bolted to the Democratic column. Some of the same deficit-cutters joined Democrats to defeat a compromise version of the Interior Department's budget, arguing that the bill gave mining companies mineral rights that should be sold at a huge profit.
Those bills were supposed to be relatively simple to enact. Far more serious differences split the Republican right and middle -- as well as the Senate and House -- over spending bills that cut social programs and environmental spending, finance anti-crime programs and pare spending on foreign affairs.
Congressional leaders hope to get the spending bills to Mr. Clinton's desk by Nov. 13, the day the Government's temporary spending authority expires. Others believe that no more than eight or nine bills will be finished by then and that Congress and the White House will clash again, inevitably, over how to finance the Government while they dicker.
The giant spending bill that will eventually contain a tax cut, dubbed the reconciliation package, is an even dicier proposition.
The legislation, which is primarily written by the Finance and the Ways and Means panels, authorizes spending for Medicaid and Medicare, welfare, trade, farm programs and a raft of other benefits and entitlements. Republicans want to cut or slow sharply the growth of most but they differ over how much and how.
The House and Senate, for example, are far apart on the outline of a crucial formula for distributing Medicaid money to the states. The Senate Agriculture Committee favors deep cuts in farm subsidies; the House has yet to agree on anything. The House would deny welfare to unwed teen-age mothers and other recipients' newborns; the Senate would not. Both are torn over proposals to trim spending on student loans.
The House version, to be unveiled on Wednesday, should be easily shepherded to passage by Speaker Newt Gingrich and his aides. Not so, however, in the Senate, where nobody is allowed to amend the reconciliation package, but anyone can try to cripple it by moving to strike portions they do not like.
Democrats will move to strike scores of politically raw provisions dealing with taxes, Medicare reductions, abortion, welfare and farms, among others. Whether the Republican majority can hold its handful of moderates and resist those moves is debatable.
"What comes out of the Senate could look considerably different from what they originally have put before them, and that could make reaching a compromise with the House even more difficult," Robert Reischauer, a past director of the Congressional Budget Office who is now a scholar at the Brookings Institution, said in an interview. "What they're doing is so complex, so fraught with political dangers that it will be very difficult for them to wrap everything up and have it on the President's desk by the middle of November.
"If they have a reconciliation bill, and I still think the word if is appropriate, it wouldn't reach the President's desk until Thanksgiving recess at the earliest."
At which point, everyone agrees, Mr. Clinton will veto it, and the negotiations will begin.
Such delays would not matter much: Medicare and other benefit programs would merely keep running at their current paces until the Government's legal authority to borrow money -- that is, to engage in deficit spending -- is scheduled to run out on Nov. 15. Unless it can rack up higher deficits, the Government cannot pay its debts and will go into default.
Mr. Gingrich has expressed a willingness to raise the debt ceiling during negotiations in Congress and, later, with the White House. But with each extension, it will become less certain that the right-wing populists in his party will fall into line.
"Once Congress has produced a bill and sent it to the President, and he has vetoed that bill, you would think you would have a season for compromise," Mr. Reischauer said. "But some of the participants here seem to be in no mood for compromise."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; LAW AND LEGISLATION; NATIONAL DEBT (US) TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATION (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); MEDICARE (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); THANKSGIVING (60%); 

PERSON: MURKOWSKI, FRANK H (SEN); WINES, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) LISA MURKOWSKI (79%); PHIL GRAMM (59%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



176 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Man in the News;
Educator Who Calls for Higher Expectations -- Rudolph F. Crew

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG 

 BODY:
Alone among the candidates for schools chancellor interviewed last month by the New York City Board of Education, Rudolph F. Crew had a simple request: he first wanted to wander around a city public school.
And so a visit to an elementary school on the Upper West Side was hastily arranged for Dr. Crew, who has led two West Coast school systems but never has worked in New York. Roaming through the hallways and lunchroom of Public School 9 on West 84th Street, Dr. Crew chatted amiably with teachers and students, helped one child mop up a spilled carton of milk and stooped to accept a hug from a small boy who had no idea who he was or what he was doing there. 
 "Mister," the boy asked, "do you work here?"
Last night, the Board of Education answered that question by naming Dr. Crew the leader of the country's largest public school system -- a job he had not said for sure whether he would take.
In deciding to offer the post to Dr. Crew, 45, the board's president, Carol A. Gresser, said that she and a majority of her colleagues were impressed by his belief that the only way to raise the achievement of urban children is to raise standards and expectations. It is a philosophy shared in New York by one of Dr. Crew's early mentors, Chancellor Ramon C. Cortines, whom he would succeed.
"I wear a pin that says, 'Children first,' " Mrs. Gresser said. "His visit to that school tells me he feels the same way. That means a lot."
Dr. Crew, who became Superintendent of Schools in Tacoma, Wash., two years ago, has won support for the three goals he set out to achieve -- increasing parental involvement, improving attendance and raising scores on standardized tests given in the district of 31,000 students.
He has made so much progress that the Tacoma Public School Board extended his contract last July. On Friday night, its president issued a strong statement imploring Dr. Crew to honor that contract and remain as Superintendent until 1998.
"He is devoted to the success of every child, regardless of their station in life" said Byron Haley, a Tacoma board member. "He has brought back self-esteem to the teaching staff, the children, and certainly the community."
But some national experts on urban education wonder whether Dr. Crew has the credentials to run a school system of more than a million students. New York has twice as many teachers as Tacoma has students.
His previous administrative experience includes stints as the deputy superintendent and Superintendent of the Sacramento, Calif., schools, with a student population of 51,000, and, previously, the deputy superintendent's job in Boston.
"He's known as strong on instruction and curriculum and he has a good sense of the problems that racial diversity presents to a system," said one educator, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "But his breadth of experience is nothing like that of the most recent chancellors. Not even close. That is not to say he may not be up to it, but it is going to be a big stretch for him."
Raised in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., Dr. Crew is not entirely unfamiliar with New York City. He told the board that his father, who worked for I.B.M., often brought him along on weekend trips to Harlem, where he played in jazz clubs.
Dr. Crew's affection for children extends to his personal life. He and his second wife, Cathy, share seven children, four from his previous marriage and three from hers.
If he accepts the job, Dr. Crew would be the second black to lead the city school system. He received most of his education in Massachusetts -- a bachelor's degree in management and economics at Babson College in Wellesley, and a master's in urban education and a doctorate in educational administration from the University of Massachusetts in Amherst.
It was while enrolled in the doctoral program that Dr. Crew spent a year as an intern under Mr. Cortines, who was then the Superintendent of Schools in Pasadena, Calif. Dr. Crew has cited Mr. Cortines, who worked hard in New York to bring the fundamentals of teaching and learning to the fore, as an early mentor.
Dr. Crew first worked in a classroom in Pasadena, teaching social science and English to high school students from 1973 to 1975.
But he quickly crossed over into school administration, becoming, at 24, principal of a 300-student high school in Claremont, and, later, assistant superintendent of a 4,000-student district, Duarte. Both are in Southern California.
Dr. Crew returned to the East Coast to work in Boston from 1985 to 1987 as the superintendent of curriculum and instruction. This past summer, he was one of four finalists for the superintendent's job in Boston, but he abruptly pulled out, citing his commitment to Tacoma.
In his two years in Tacoma, a working-class community on Puget Sound where the school system and the local paper mill are among the biggest employers, Dr. Crew has striven to raise standards. He has required high school students, for example, to take an additional year of mathematics, English and science, and two years of a foreign language.
The effort parallels that of Mr. Cortines, who last year began requiring every high school student in New York to take college-preparatory math and science.
In Tacoma, as in Boston, Dr. Crew has embraced the principles of the Efficacy Institute, an organization in Lexington, Mass., that trains teachers to instill in their students the expectation and anticipation of success. Dr. Crew has incorporated the institute into an instructional program for Tacoma teachers on which the district is spending nearly $2 million over four years, with about $414,000 going to the institute itself.
Dr. Crew has also stressed the importance of giving individual schools greater say in how they are managed, with the active involvement of the teachers' union and parents' groups.
"We now have monthly management meetings where a range of problems get aired," said Theresa Tommaney, the president of the union, the Tacoma Education Association. "That didn't happen under the previous superintendent."
Last month, Dr. Crew made it into the pool of 15 finalists under serious consideration by the New York City board and left a strong impression on many board members after his interview two weeks ago. But he withdrew from consideration the following day, saying he had much work to complete in Tacoma.
Late last week, however, as the board renewed its interest in him as a compromise candidate acceptable to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, he began to send out a flurry of conflicting signals -- reassuring Tacoma officials that he was not seeking the New York job while indicating, in a nearly two-hour conference call with the board, that he would not rule it out if he were drafted.
Precious little is known about how Dr. Crew would run the New York City schools, or about Dr. Crew himself. Board officials said that their investigators had completed a preliminary background check on him that showed nothing unusual. But he still must submit to a physical, as well as a more substantial inquiry by the city's Department of Investigation.
In a brief interview on Friday, Dr. Crew would only say that he looked forward to "exploding the mythology about the educability of poor and urban children."
Echoing other Tacoma officials, Mr. Haley said he would miss Dr. Crew's broad smile, sympathetic ear and warm ease in relating to children. But he said he did not plan to stand in Dr. Crew's way.
"We all really appreciate what he has done," he said. "I guess the bottom line is he made a difference."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: MAN IN THE NEWS (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); WEST USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TACOMA, WA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY BOARD (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY BOARD (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); WEST USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PARENTING (73%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES; CREW, RUDOLPH F (CHANCELLOR); CORTINES, RAMON C (CHANCELLOR) RUDOLPH F CREW (96%); RAMON C CORTINES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



177 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Marines Seek Peace With Okinawa in Rape Case

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: NAHA, Okinawa, Oct. 7

 BODY:
For at least one day this week, this island had some peace. The big guns that fire shells over Highway 104 were silent. The deafening planes that drown out the lessons at elementary schools were grounded. No parachutes dropped from the sky onto the small practice field -- or into the residential neighborhood nearby.
Most of the 18,000 United States marines in Okinawa held a "day of reflection" to contemplate the rape of a 12-year-old Okinawan schoolgirl, for which three American servicemen have been charged. Regular training was suspended on Thursday and the marines spent the day in lectures and discussion groups on topics like the "core values" of the Marine Corps, alcohol abuse and the customs and culture of Okinawa. 
 The day of reflection was part of an unusual outpouring of contrition by the United States military. But while the Pentagon could silence the guns and planes, it has not been able to silence the controversy generated by the rape and by the presence of so many American military bases, which take up 20 percent of the land on Okinawa's main island.
The incident has added new strains to the relationship between the American military and the local people. And it is raising questions about the behavior and training of the American troops here.
To a man, the marines interviewed said the suspects in the rape case were not representative of the corps. "Those people who chose to do that, they are not marines, in my opinion," said Pfc. Chad Ellis.
But the United States Government is acting as if the case is part of a systemic problem. Gen. Charles C. Krulak, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, flew here specially from Washington to meet with troops. Discipline is being tightened and the sale of alcohol at stores on the bases is being halted at 9 P.M.
"There are some people who would love to limit it only to the action of a few bad apples," Iva Hosaka, who works as a community liaison for the United States military in Okinawa, said on the day of reflection. "But that's what this day is all about. We have to self-police."
The troops have raised money to help compensate the rape victim. The American Government will also pay compensation.
The public displays of contrition are in part aimed at keeping the outcry from the Okinawans in check. The incident has given new momentum to calls by some Okinawans -- though by no means all -- to remove the bases at a time when the United States and Japan are trying to justify their necessity with the end of the cold war.
"The Rock," as some servicemen call Okinawa, is the largest Marine post outside the United States. In addition to the 18,000 marines, there are 11,000 from the other services here, together accounting for 29,000 of the roughly 45,000 American troops in Japan.
Including civilians and dependents, the 54,000 Americans here live a somewhat isolated life. While many develop friendships with local people, others venture no farther off-base than the nearby honky-tonks. The bases contain American-style shopping centers and wide expanses of well-cropped grass that are out of character in crowded Japan, contributing to feelings of envy among Okinawans.
Into this atmosphere came the rape. According to Japanese authorities and American military officials, four servicemen on a day off began talking about committing such an act. One apparently could not believe the others were serious but left. He later helped identify the suspects.
According to the indictment, the three defendants accosted the girl on a street at about 8 P.M. They beat her on the face, pushed her into the back seat of the car, covered her eyes and mouth with tape and tied her wrists and ankles. They raped her on the back seat and restrained her by hitting her in the face and stomach, causing injuries that required two weeks to heal.
The three men, who were indicted on Sept. 29 and could face up to a life term in a Japanese prison, were identified as Marine Pfc. Rodrico Harp, 21, of Griffin, Ga.; Marine Pfc. Kendrick M. Ledet, 20, of Waycross, Ga.; and Navy Seaman Marcus D. Gill, 22, of Woodville, Tex.
To some Okinawans, this is just the latest indignity at the hands of the Americans, who captured Okinawa in the closing months of World War II and occupied it until 1972, 20 years after the occupation of the rest of Japan ended.
Some older people noted that the rape occurred almost 40 years to the day after an infamous "Yumiko-chan incident," in which a 6-year-old girl named Yumiko was raped and killed by an American serviceman.
The Okinawa government reports that there have been 4,700 crimes committed by servicemen, including 12 murders of Japanese civilians, since 1972. According to Stars and Stripes, the American military newspaper, Americans in Okinawa accounted for 4.2 percent of the population but 11.5 percent of felonies like murder, rape and robbery.
But even Okinawan officials concede that reported crimes have declined remarkably, from more than 300 a year in some years in the 1970's to 98 in 1994. An English-language document prepared by the Okinawa government in May about the problems associated with the bases does not even mention crime.
Rather, the report, and people in Okinawa, mention such things as ear-splitting aircraft noise, artillery practice in which shells fly over a public highway and denude a scenic mountain, aircraft crashes and parachute drops that go astray, like the time a military trailer dropped on a house in 1965, killing a child.
But what appears to grate more sharply than the daily annoyances is the sense of being deprived of their history. A peaceful trading kingdom before it was annexed by Japan in the 1870's, Okinawa has lost much of its culture and native language but is still viewed by other Japanese as second class. Many Okinawans say the Japanese Government is as responsible as the Americans for the fact that Okinawa, which accounts for less than 1 percent of Japanese territory, houses 75 percent of the American bases in the country.
A focus of Okinawa's anger in this case is the Status of Forces Agreement, which sets legal guidelines for American military personnel. Under the agreement, American servicemen caught by the Japanese for crimes committed while off duty can be detained and interrogated by the Japanese police. But those who are in United States custody, like the three suspects in the rape case, are not turned over to the Japanese authorities until after they are indicted.
Okinawans say this impedes their criminal investigations and puts the Americans above the law, encouraging more crimes. In some cases, servicemen vanish into their bases, out of reach of the Japanese police, after committing offenses.
American officials say they cooperated fully in the recent rape case and played a key role in tracking down the suspects. Still, as part of the response to the rape, a United States-Japanese committee is reviewing the Status of Forces Agreement. In Germany, the United States military has some discretion to turn over suspects before they are indicted and Japanese officials have suggested this might be an acceptable solution for Japan as well.
As for the bases, a poll taken by the local government a few years ago showed about 80 percent of Okinawans favor removing or reducing them.
But interviews with people here suggest opposition to the bases is not that fervent, mainly for economic reasons. Okinawa is the poorest of Japan's prefectures, with an unemployment rate twice the national average of 3.2 percent.
Okinawan officials say the bases now account for only 5 percent of the economy here, down from 15 percent in 1972. The number of Okinawan employees on the bases dropped to 7,900 in 1992 from 20,000 in 1972. Rather than helping the economy, the government argues, the bases are hampering it by taking up room needed for industry and commerce.
But some Okinawans wonder if profitable uses can be found for the land. Okinawa is too remote for manufacturing, especially when the strong Japanese yen is making all of Japan unattractive for factories. Tourism, the main industry here, is also hurt by the strong yen, which makes it less expensive for Japanese sun worshipers to visit Guam or Hawaii.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marine guards patrol Kin, a town of bars and dance halls near Camp Hansen, Okinawa, after a girl was raped, reportedly by American servicemen. (Mao Ishikawa for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: KYUSHU, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (91%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (91%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKINAWA AND OTHER RYUKYU ISLANDS; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (90%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: SEX CRIMES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS SEXUAL ASSAULT (92%); ARMED FORCES (91%); SEX OFFENSES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); COLD WAR (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); MILITARY OFFENSES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (69%); 

PERSON: HARP, RODRICO (PFC); LEDET, KENDRICK M (PFC); GILL, MARCUS D (SEAMAN); POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



178 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Attack Shift In Cuba Policy

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7

 BODY:
Republican Presidential candidates have attacked President Clinton's new Cuba policy, accusing the Administration of seeking to extend full diplomatic relations to Fidel Castro's Communist Government.
On Friday, just hours after Mr. Clinton announced plans to loosen travel restrictions and take other steps to increase people-to-people contacts with Cuba, Bob Dole, the Senate Majority Leader and Presidential candidate, said the new policy "has undermined the supporters of democratic change in Cuba." 
 Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, another Republican candidate, said Mr. Clinton's policy was extending the suffering of the Cuban people and "putting out the welcome mat to Castro instead of tightening the noose around his aging neck."
At issue is not only Cuba policy, but the support and votes of Cuban-Americans.
Even as the two Republican candidates sought to appeal to Cuban-Americans, White House policy makers predicted that many Cuban immigrants would support the policy because it would ease the suffering of the Cuban people.
Administration officials said Cuban-Americans would be pleased that the President's new policy would make it easier for them to visit sick relatives in Cuba and finance human rights organizations there.
The new policy would also allow Cuban-Americans to send money to relatives who are suffering from disaster and would permit a greater flow of students, professors, artists and members of the clergy between the United States and Cuba.
Senator Bob Graham, a Florida Democrat, said the reception in his state was mixed.
"There are some who resist any opening, whether it's to the Government or Cuban people out of fear that it will rebound to Castro's benefit economically or in political prestige," he said.
"Then there are others who want more visitations and contacts and would have liked the President to go further. He has struck a good balance."
Representative Robert Menendez, a Democrat from Hudson County, N.J., who faulted Mr. Clinton's policy as contradictory, nonetheless accused the Republicans of pandering to Cuban-Americans.
"The Republicans are playing politics with this -- there's no question about it," Mr. Menendez said. "They certainly know the sentiments of the Cuban-American community."
Cuban-Americans in Florida represent a vital voting bloc in a state with 25 electoral votes and are an important source of contributions for candidates.
In its defense, the Administration argues that it is carrying out a two-track approach that Congress called for in the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992: maintaining the trade embargo while increasing people-to-people contacts, which, the Administration says, will spur the flow of democratic ideas into Cuba and lead to the end of Communism.
Richard Nuccio, the President's special adviser on Cuba, said: "The embargo by itself is not sufficient to help the Cuban people produce change. We have to take more steps to actively engage them."
Cambio Cubano, a Cuban-American group that favors talks with Cuba, said it "cautiously welcomed" the policy shift.
But the powerful Cuban-American National Foundation, which has clashed with Mr. Clinton, gave only a mild rebuke, saying the new policy was "unlikely to have any significant impact" on the Castro Government.
Many Cuban-Americans sympathized with Mr. Dole's statement that despite the push in Congress to tighten the embargo, "President Clinton has unilaterally decided to ease the 30-year-old U.S. embargo."
Mr. Dole and many Republicans assert that the new policy is a step toward establishing full diplomatic relations with Cuba -- something the Administration denies. They say that expanding contacts will do more to prop up Mr. Castro by providing him with hard currency than to undermine him by sowing Western ideas.
Administration policy makers said they had recommended the new policy to the President because they were frustrated that the embargo had done little to push Mr. Castro out.
These policy makers said the new policy was inspired by what many Eastern Europeans leaders said was pivotal in overthrowing Communism: increased contacts with the West.
The Cuban-American National foundation said that if Mr. Clinton were serious about hastening Mr. Castro's demise, he would support, rather than oppose, a bill approved by the House that would seek to squeeze Mr. Castro by punishing foreign companies that invest in Cuba. Mr. Dole has pledged to bring the bill to a vote on the Senate floor soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); REFUGEES (74%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB (SEN); GRAMM, PHIL (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (91%); FIDEL CASTRO (89%); BOB MENENDEZ (79%); PHIL GRAMM (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



179 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: NYC;
Will Play Flop After the Star Leaves Town?

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
WITH Pope John Paul II pulling up stakes this morning, an unavoidable question is whether he leaves a lasting imprint on "great, great New York," as he put it yesterday in Central Park. This city, he said the day before, is "considered by many to be the zenith of modern civilization and progress" (although the Pontiff did not say clearly that he puts himself in the ranks of the many -- and he never even had to endure the uncivilizing effects of a New York traffic jam).
John Paul II touched many hearts during his few days here, and not just among Roman Catholics. But what will become of his recurring theme that the city and country must continue to embrace the immigrant stranger and tend to those poor in pocket and spirit? 
 Will lawmakers eager to neuter health programs and social services now hang their heads and repent? Will the Mayor and Governor, both Roman Catholics, heed their spiritual father and beat their budgetary pruning hooks into antipoverty spears?
In short, did anyone out there who is graced with power hear this visiting Pope?
Peter F. Vallone, a daily communicant and City Council Speaker, says yes. But then, Mr. Vallone also acknowledges that some may call him an unreconstructed optimist. "He leaves a positive feeling," Mr. Vallone said. "I think it will make a difference for legislators. Maybe we can all rethink our positions, including Mr. Gingrich and everyone else talking about cutting everything. When you see 100,000 people on the Great Lawn, and there's the man talking about giving to the poor and sheltering them, you've got to rethink it all. If nothing else, those people on the lawn vote."
 MAYBE he's right. But this city can be relentless in absorbing special events and leaving only faint traces. More important, many New Yorkers feel, is the mood in Washington, and it may take more than papal intervention to reverse policies that are reducing the city to helpless supplicant.
"Does the Pope's visit give a lot of people hope?" asks the Rev. David Toolan, associate editor of America, a Jesuit public-affairs weekly. "Yes. But in practical terms, is that going to change people's attitudes toward the welfare system, or who will be schools chancellor? Probably not."
It may take time to learn the full meaning of this papal visit. Attendance at Mass grew in Denver after John Paul II went there in 1993, and maybe the Archdioceses of New York and Newark will be as fortunate. It would be nice to think that New Yorkers will be kinder to one another from now on. But that may fall under the heading of miracles.
Fact is, papal trips have had their greatest impact on countries where the situation is truly desperate. In Poland, anti-Communist resistance was spiritually sustained by its native son in the Vatican. He has benefited the poor and politically suppressed in parts of Asia and Africa that rarely get international attention except when the Pope comes through. For all its troubles, New York is not that bad off.
PERHAPS a better question is what imprint the city leaves on John Paul II.
Is he aware, after 112 countries over 17 years, that he could have spared himself the wear and tear simply by going to Elmhurst, Queens, where, the last census shows, exactly that many nations are represented?
He must know that New York is not just the Big Apple but also the Big Microphone. "New York looms large for him because it is the communications capital," says Victor Simpson, a reporter for The Associated Press based in Rome who has accompanied John Paul II on most of his voyages. "He realizes that this world is dominated by the communications industry. The man is not naive."
But who can say if the Pope truly sensed New York's finger-snap pace? He came, after all, as pastor, not tourist. At least he got to see Central Park and the United Nations. A play would have been nice, too.
As a matter of fact, a musical version of a play that he wrote in 1960, "The Jeweler's Shop," was to have had a run this month in a small theater at St. Clement's Episcopal Church on West 46th Street. But the cash ran low, and the production was canceled.
A lesson for a Pope: This can be one tough town.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); POLAND (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); POLAND (77%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING RELIGION (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); TRENDS (73%); MAYORS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE; POPE (JOHN PAUL II) BRITNEY SPEARS (55%); BRITNEY SPEARS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



180 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: William White, 92, Former Bank Regulator, Dies

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr. 

 BODY:
William R. White, an accidental banker who followed a circuitous path to become New York's youngest Superintendent of Banks during a critical period in the 1930's and then spent a quarter-century as a top officer of what became the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Lewisburg, Pa. He was 92.
Mr. White never intended a career in banking. Indeed, his son David said yesterday, until his father worked his way through Bucknell University in Lewisburg, all he wanted to do was to make a decent life for himself outside Coudersport, an impoverished farming community in north-central Pennsylvania, where his own father had broken with a family subsistence farming tradition to eke out a living by operating a general store. 
 While at Bucknell, Mr. White finally made a firm career choice: to become a lawyer in New York.
After obtaining his law degree from Columbia in 1929, Mr. White did become a lawyer, but he made the fateful mistake of joining a firm, Chadbourne & Whiteside, that did so much legal work for the New York State Banking Department that for a year Mr. White did little else but work on state banking matters.
He also apparently did the work uncommonly well; well enough, anyway, that he caught the attention of the state's Banking Superintendent, Joseph A. Broderick, who persuaded him to accept an appointment to the department's legal staff in 1930.
Six years later, at 32, he was named by Gov. Herbert H. Lehman to succeed Mr. Broderick as Superintendent.
The 1930's was a heady time to be a bank regulator in New York. For one thing, the Depression had taken a heavy toll on the nation's financial institutions, causing many banks to fail, putting even more in severe jeopardy and uncovering a range of abusive or unsound practices that needed corrective attention.
For another, far more than it is today, New York was the nation's banking capital, and the state's banking department had enormous responsibilities for the nation's financial stability.
With the exception of the Bank of America in California and Continental Illinois in Chicago, all of the nation's largest banks were based in New York City and operated under charters from New York State, not from the Federal Government.
As a result, with perhaps half the nation's financial assets under his supervisory control and with with broad regulatory jurisdiction over everything from reserve requirements and interest rates to the minutiae of specific loan and other banking practices, the Superintendent had the combined powers of today's Comptroller of the Currency and the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board.
Although the worst of the banking crisis was over by the time he became Superintendent on Jan. 1, 1936, Mr. White, who had been deeply involved in the department's activities as he worked his way up the administrative ladder, had plenty on his plate.
In addition to his day-to-day duties, Mr. White, who persuaded the State Legislature to put a cap on interest rates charged by small-loan companies, also spearheaded an overhaul of the state's banking laws that at once strengthened New York State's position as the chartering agency of choice for the nation's largest banks and foreordained its decline.
The revamped regulations were considered so advanced that they served as a model for those later adopted by the Federal Government, which eventually lured the big banks to the Federal fold.
Mr. White resigned his post in 1942 to become a vice president of the old Guaranty Trust Company, which later merged with the Morgan Bank to become Morgan Guaranty Trust.
As the officer in charge of Guaranty's operations in a region running from New York to Maryland, Mr. White had reason to welcome the merger with Morgan. As Superintendent on March 21, 1940, he had presided over the demise of J. P. Morgan & Company's long and storied role as a private bank by approving its certificate of incorporation as a state-chartered bank.
He may have become a banker by accident, but when it came to his retirement, Mr. White, an avid hunter and fisherman, left nothing to chance. In 1944, he bought a 21-acre Dutchess County farm situated in the middle of the famous hunting and fishing preserve operated by the Clove Valley Rod and Gun Club in La Grange, N.Y. When he retired as a Morgan Guaranty senior vice president in 1968, he moved there full time.
Besides his son, of Chatham, N.J., he is survived by his wife, Elizabeth; another son, William Jr., of Venice, Fla.; a daughter, Deborah Anderson, of Hilton Head Island, S.C.; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William R. White (Matar Studio, 1980)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (LSE) (90%); 8634 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BUCKNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); BUCKNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUCKNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); BUCKNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: WHITE, WILLIAM R; THOMAS, ROBERT MCG JR WILLIAM R THOMAS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



181 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Fractious Reformers in Russia

 BODY:
Hard as it is to handicap next year's Presidential race in America, it may be even harder to unscramble the presidential field in Russia, where elections are scheduled for June 1996. With Russian politics fragmented and the electorate in a surly mood, anything seems possible, from reaffirmation to repudiation of the economic and political reforms fitfully championed by President Boris Yeltsin.
Along with parliamentary elections later this year, the outcome of the presidential race will be vitally important not only for Russia but for the United States and the rest of the world. A reversal of reform, or an aggravation of Moscow's already chronic political instability, could quickly ripple through the post-cold war international landscape, touching everything from peace prospects in the Balkans and Middle East to the size of the Pentagon budget. 
 Mr. Yeltsin has not yet disclosed whether he plans to run again, but his ill health and low popularity make his re-election doubtful. Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin, who has been a guardian of reform as well as an effective administrator, announced last week that he does not plan to run for president. His declaration sounded definitive, but there was speculation in Moscow that it was merely a temporary maneuver to placate Mr. Yeltsin, who reportedly feels threatened by the growing popularity of his Prime Minister.
The crucial question is whether anyone with national credibility will carry the reform banner into the campaign, and enjoy the undivided support of democratic voters. One declared candidate, Grigory Yavlinsky, an economist and strong advocate of reform, has yet to show the capacity to unite Russia's unruly democratic forces.
If the divisions among reform politicians persist, which seems likely, the next president could well be a nationalist, Communist or other candidate who wants to restore some degree of authoritarian rule, reassert Russian influence in the former Soviet republics and rebuild the Russian military. Communists won 22 of 24 seats in the Volgograd regional parliament last week.
The most popular potential presidential candidate at the moment is Aleksandr Lebed, a former general who has called for a restoration of order in his chaotic country, citing the example of Gen. Augusto Pinochet in Chile.
General Lebed's appeal cuts across political lines. During the failed 1991 coup attempt in Moscow, he led the troops that came to the defense of Mr. Yeltsin and his democratic supporters. He was also an early and strong critic of Moscow's misguided military campaign in Chechnya. Less appealingly, in recent years he used the 14th Army under his command to protect Russian interests in the Dnestr region of Moldova, essentially intervening in the affairs of an independent nation.
Mr. Chernomyrdin's announcement certainly will not help the prospects of the centrist party, Our Home Is Russia, that he established earlier this year, ostensibly with Mr. Yeltsin's blessing. The longer Russia's democrats bicker among themselves, the harder it will be for one of them to prevail next June.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHILE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COLD WAR (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ARMIES (76%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (71%); COUPS (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%); ARMED FORCES (62%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); 

PERSON: BORIS YELTSIN (72%); VIKTOR CHERNOMYRDIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



182 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 8; Page 7; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: '95 PLAYOFFS;
Some Pedestrian Pitching Can't Stop the Braves

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Oct. 7

 BODY:
Once again, Greg Maddux pitched a less than masterful game in the playoffs. Once again, it didn't matter. For the second time in this series against Colorado, Atlanta's extraordinary hitting more than compensated for an ordinary performance by Maddux.
If Maddux was not in his usual Cy Young Award form tonight, Fred McGriff formidably recovered his stroke with two home runs and Marquis Grissom pushed his series average above .500 with five hits as the Braves advanced to the National League Championship Series for the fourth consecutive time with a 10-4 victory over the Rockies at Fulton County Stadium. 
 Atlanta will open the N.L.C.S. on Tuesday in Cincinnati after dispatching the free-swinging Rockies three games to one in the divisional playoffs. The Braves quickly fell behind, 3-0, as Maddux had another unsettling start, but Atlanta pummeled Colorado's sore-shouldered Bret Saberhagen for four runs in the third inning for a lead that would escalate impressively.
"McGriff was the difference, and Grissom," Atlanta Manager Bobby Cox said. "We were waiting for somebody like that to do that. Our club can be very explosive and it was tonight."
Maddux is indisputably baseball's best pitcher, one headed for his fourth consecutive Cy Young Award after a 19-2 regular season. Oddly, though, his career playoff record is a pedestrian 2-2. Even though he won, Maddux allowed 10 hits, 4 runs and home runs to Dante Bichette and Vinny Castilla, while again exiting after seven innings.
However, the Braves are an accomplished playoff team, one that becomes particularly imposing with the suddenly awakened McGriff in the cleanup spot. Instead of waiting to catch Colorado in the late innings, as they had done in the first three games, the Braves knocked Saberhagen around, grabbed the lead and held it indomitably.
McGriff's regular-season average slid nearly 40 points, to .280, spurring talk that the Braves would not re-sign the free-agent first baseman. He did not quiet the talk by hitting .231 with no home runs and a single run batted in during the first three games of this series. Tonight, however, he broke out with three hits, including the pair of homers, and drove five runs across the plate with incredible economy. He swung his bat a grand total of three times all night.
"It's a lot easier to hit when the count is 2-0 and 3-0, than being in the hole 0-2 and 1-2," McGriff said. "You're always working to get ahead in the count. I laid off bad pitches tonight. I got some pitches to hit and I hit them well."
Grissom, meanwhile, batted .524 (11 for 21, 3 home runs) for the series after hitting a tepid .258 during the regular season upon coming to Atlanta from Montreal. His five hits tonight were a club record for a playoff game.
"We knew we had a great player when we got him," Cox said of Grissom. "He hit .258 this year, but he hit a lot of balls hard. He just didn't have a lot of luck. When he gets on base, he can steal, and he sets the table for the big guys. He makes all the difference in the world."
Maddux had been ordinary in Game 1, which Atlanta won despite its ace giving up nine hits, three runs and a two-run homer and failing to get either the decision or a single strikeout.
But Cox, who is using three starters in this series, did not hesitate to send Maddux back to the mound on three days' rest. He was vulnerable again, and Colorado took a 3-0 lead in the third as Bichette punched an 0-1 pitch over the right-field fence.
This was no time to panic, however, and relief came immediately as Atlanta took a 4-3 lead in the bottom of the inning against Saberhagen, whose sore shoulder will require arthroscopic surgery in the off season.
With two outs, Grissom and Mark Lemke singled, then Chipper Jones sliced a two-run double down the left field line, just beyond the glove of a diving Bichette. McGriff followed with a two-run, opposite field home run beyond another futile leap by Bichette, and a 3-0 Colorado lead became a 4-3 advantage for Atlanta.
McGriff made the score 7-3 in the fifth by cuffing a 3-0 pitch off reliever Kevin Ritz over the left-field fence. Then, as the Braves batted around in the sixth, the Rockies walked Jones intentionally and brought in the left-hander Mike Munoz to face the left-handed hitting McGriff with the bases loaded.
The strategy backfired as McGriff poked a two-run single past first base, putting the Braves comfortably ahead 10-4 and comfortably back in the National League Championship Series.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Braves' Marquis Grissom sliding into second as the Rockies' Eric Young jumped away. Grissom banged out five hits for a series average of .524. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTA BRAVES ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL SPORTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); ATHLETES (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); 

PERSON: LONGMAN, JERE BRET WILLIAM SABERHAGEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



183 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 13; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Foreign Policy 3.1

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: REDMOND, Wash.

 BODY:
On the front page of The Financial Times the other day was a picture that caught my eye. It showed Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, holding talks with Jiang Zemin, the President of China. The caption made it sound like any meeting of world leaders. It said the two men held "very cordial" talks, in contrast with their "frosty" summit of 18 months ago.
Bill Gates has met Jiang Zemin twice in 18 months. Hmmmmmm, that's once more than Bill Clinton. That's no accident. The Chinese believe they need Bill G. more than they need Bill C. Which raises an interesting question: Does Microsoft have a foreign policy? 
 I asked Steve Ballmer, the No. 2 man at Microsoft, who oversees the software giant's worldwide operations from its headquarters in Redmond, Wash. Mr. Ballmer says Microsoft doesn't have a foreign policy per se. But it does have a global business agenda. Since Microsoft today has twice the market value of General Motors, it's worth looking at that agenda because it is bound to influence U.S. foreign policy.
When I asked Mr. Ballmer what policies his company's Washington office was pushing these days, he gave me a quizzical look and said, "We just put our first person there." I had to laugh. Can you imagine how many people the Big Three auto makers have in Washington, and Microsoft, a $50 billion company, just opened a Washington office. Mind you, Microsoft has an army of p.r. firms, and lawyers aplenty to defend it against antitrust suits, but except for help with copyright violations, Microsoft doesn't much look to Washington.
In part this is because it has a virtual worldwide monopoly. Like one of the great sea powers of old, Microsoft today controls access to the modern lanes of communication. Microsoft operating systems run 85 percent of the world's personal computers. Microsoft doesn't need Washington to open doors for it because foreign governments are begging Microsoft to come in and translate Windows 95 into their languages, so they can get on the information highway. Describing his contacts with foreign leaders, Mr. Ballmer put it this way: "People say, 'You have this technology. We hear it's changing the world. Tell us how it can help us.' "
It's intriguing to talk to Mr. Ballmer about where Microsoft sales are booming, as an indicator of which countries are hot and which are not. China has the greatest potential, not just because it has 1.2 billion people but because its birth control policies restricting every family to one child mean there are often two sets of grandparents and two parents -- that is six adults -- saving to buy a computer and software for each kid.
Mr. Ballmer says Japan is just now taking off for Microsoft products, while Israel is so far advanced it has one of the few Microsoft development centers outside Redmond. But Microsoft's hottest market in the Middle East is Saudi Arabia. Iran and Egypt are nil, but India and Brazil are booming. The one European democracy that is slipping is France. Says Mr. Ballmer: "I don't want to say [France] has fallen behind," but "the penetration of PC's relative to population was quite high in France. That's not true anymore."
Is what's good for Microsoft good for America? When I asked Mr. Ballmer whether Microsoft was even an American company, he said: "We like to think we are a company based in America that is a global company. In every country we are Microsoft. Not American. Microsoft. Microsoft Japan. Microsoft Italy . . ." That does not mean it is indifferent to America. Microsoft needs a cutting-edge U.S. technology market to design, test and perfect its products for global sales. Also, since America is the leader in information technology, laws and standards set here are copied abroad.
While Microsoft is a coldblooded economic giant, its technology, along with that of its competitors, can foster democracy in ways G.M. never could. Its software is making it possible for individuals to communicate horizontally, through the Internet, across international boundaries, and to create groups and information pools that are outside all government authority. To take full advantage of that software, societies have to become more open, deregulated and interactive. Says Mr. Ballmer: "Once you let people on the Internet, the control aspects are reasonably out the window."
It's too early to predict what all this will mean for U.S. foreign policy, but I do predict this: It will be shaped to a significant degree by decisions taken in Washington.
Redmond, Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (67%); AUTOMAKERS (67%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (66%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (64%); GRANDPARENTS (60%); COPYRIGHT (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L BILL GATES (91%); STEVEN A BALLMER (89%); BILL CLINTON (58%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



184 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Advisers Are Mostly Sticking With Stocks

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
STAYING in this year's stock market can seem downright greedy.
After all, fund investors are sitting on some of the most impressive gains ever. Stock funds rose 27 percent, on average, while technology funds turned in nearly double that gain in the first nine months. 
 So with the year winding down, the temptation is strong to take profits and retreat from the high-risk world of stocks until the market becomes a bit less choppy than it has been in recent weeks, while third-quarter earnings disappointments trickled out.
The investment advisers who created hypothetical retirement portfolios for The New York Times two years ago acknowledged that they, too, had felt such psychological tugs in recent weeks. But when approached for their quarterly review, the five advisers only fiddled with their holdings for the final months of the year; not one moved out of stocks.
"You're always worried when the market goes up that far that fast, but we're a long-term portfolio," said Eric M. Kobren, president of Insight Management in Wellesley, Mass. Each of the portfolios was intended to grow for 20 years.
Moving out of the market now would be a big mistake, Mr. Kobren said. "You can't base the decision on whether you're up or down in your position," he said, "but what the prospects are for the market." And the prospects for this market remain good, he and other investment advisers said.
"We're staying fully invested because we don't think that stocks are overvalued in terms of next year's earnings," said Sheldon Jacobs, editor of The No-Load Fund Investor in Irvington, N.Y. Besides, "the Presidential year tends to be an up year for the market. Of course, we reserve the right to add some cash if circumstances change."
Jumping out of the market now would present another quandary: when to get back into stocks. "That smacks of classic market timing, and historically, no one has been able to time the market successfully," said Harold Evensky, an investment adviser in Coral Gables, Fla.
Although market sentiment may change, and so may investment wisdom, one factor remains a constant. Stocks are critical to staying ahead of inflation in the long run. "The only way I can get long-term market returns is to be in the stock market," said Mr. Evensky, in a comment that reflects all the advisers' views.
 Profit-taking was practically nonexistent in the five portfolios. Mr. Evensky moved some money out of a general stock fund and into a real estate fund, a category that has lagged behind the stock market for some time. Specifically, he reduced his stake in SEI Capital Appreciation to 16 percent from 18 percent, and added that share to Cohen & Steers Realty.
The one area of the market most worrisome to the advisers is the scorching technology sector, which has gained an incredible 47 percent in the first nine months of this year. None of the advisers hold any technology specialty funds, so their exposure is limited to what can be found in their diversified stock funds.
Mr. Kobren says he has already positioned his portfolio to cope with the possibility of a correction. The Fidelity funds with heavy tech exposure -- Export Company and Midcap Stock -- in his portfolio have been balanced by two funds that would serve as a cushion -- Canada and Value. With that accomplished, he saw no reason to make any changes for the end of the year.
Among the five portfolio managers, Mr. Jacobs retains the lead. His portfolio has grown from $50,000

when the contest began on July 7, 1993, to $70,000 -- a gain of 40 percent. Mr. Kobren is a very close second, with a portfolio gain of 39 percent. The two managers have kept pace with the 40 percent total return on the Vanguard Index 500 fund, which mimics the Standard & Poor's 500. But on average, the portfolios have gained 31 percent, several points behind the overall market.
All the portfolios made money in the third quarter, but only Mr. Kobren kept up with the 8.9 percent average gain for general equity funds, reported by Lipper Analytical Services in Summit, N.J. Mr. Kobren, who designed a portfolio of all-Fidelity funds and keeps it simple with just five funds, was helped along by a 13.7 percent spurt in Fidelity Export, a growth fund begun just a year ago.
The portfolio performance, tracked quarterly by Lipper, excludes taxes, because many people invest retirement money in tax-deferred accounts. Transaction costs and sales charges are also excluded. The five experts can choose funds open to new investors and can shift money quarterly, although the portfolios are intended to grow for 20 years.

IN the category of fine tuning, there were a handful of changes. Mr. Jacobs is adding Invesco Balanced, which buys stocks and bonds, and dropping Fidelity Convertible, whose performance he termed disappointing. Similarly, he is replacing Mutual Beacon with Mutual Shares. Both are growth and income funds, and both have five-star designations, the highest from Morningstar, the fund analysts in Chicago. While acknowledging that the two funds have similar returns, he said that Mutual Shares had eked out a better performance recently. So far this year, Mutual Shares has gained 27.0 percent, compared with 23.1 percent for Mutual Beacon.
John Rekenthaler, editor of the Five-Star Investor at Morningstar, is replacing Janus with Fidelity Stock Selector, which behaves much like the overall stock market but has a good record of beating the S.& P. 500. (So far this year, it is running well ahead of the S.& P., with Stock Selector up 37.4 percent against 29.7 percent for the overall market.) Stock Selector, he says, will become a core holding of the retirement portfolio.
He is dumping Fidelity Global Balanced in favor of Ivy International. "I bought Fidelity Global Balanced as something of a flier, expecting that Fidelity had finally figured out international investing and would be able to translate its domestic stock success overseas," he said. "Clearly, I was too optimistic."
Mr. Evensky, who added to his realty portion, also wants to increase his exposure to small-cap and midcap stocks, so he is replacing the Vanguard S.& P. 500 index fund with shares in Schwab 1,000, with twice as many holdings.
Jack A. Brill, who limits his investment choices to funds that specialize in "socially responsible" companies, is adding a new fund: Calvert Capital Accumulation, which buys mid-cap stocks and is handled by three investment management firms.
Socially responsible funds set their own objectives, but as an example, they may steer clear of companies that make weapons and cigarettes or that have poor records in environmental matters, either creating excessive waste or refusing to switch to recycled products. The number of socially responsible funds has grown rapidly, and now exceeds 30, but Mr. Brill's choices are still substantially more limited than those of the other advisers.
In the interest of moving to a better performer, Mr. Brill is switching from Calvert Investment's global equity fund to Citizens Global Equity, formerly known as Working Assets Global Equity.
Not all of Citizens' funds appeal to him, though. He is dropping the company's income fund in favor of Calvert Social Investment Management Growth. This way, he keeps the bond portion of his portfolio constant, but positions himself to benefit from Calvert's team approach to management.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 1995, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A table last Sunday with an article about five hypothetical retirement portfolios misstated the current quarter's allocations of two funds in the portfolio of Jack A. Brill, an investment adviser in San Diego. His portfolio is weighted 23.8 percent in the Calvert Social Investors Growth fund and 10 percent in the Calvert Capital Accumulation fund.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sheldon Jacobs; Eric M. Kobren; Harold Evensky; John Rekenthaler; Jack A. Brill

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CNS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); FLORIDA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: COHEN & STEERS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); FLORIDA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); BONDS (73%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; JACOBS, SHELDON; KOBREN, ERIC; EVENSKY, HAROLD; REKENTHALER, JOHN; BRILL, JACK A ERIC M KOBREN (89%); SHELDON JACOBS (62%); HAROLD EVENSKY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



185 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 33; Column 4; The City Weekly/Queens

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST SIDE;
Heliport: New Lease And Quiet?

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
Residents of the high-rises along First Avenue in the 30's enjoy sweeping East River views. But for years, they have endured the staccato thunder of helicopters taking off and landing at the East 34th Street Heliport. Every few minutes, all day and late into the night, the whomp-whomp-whomp of propellers cutting the air halts conversation and drowns out televisions and stereos.
"Awful, terrible," said Luce Lauzon, who lives opposite the heliport at 401 East 34th Street. "It's nonstop. We have to keep the windows closed." Although the triple-glazed panes are designed to muffle noise, Ms. Lauzon said she has to keep the air-conditioners on so her children can sleep. 
 After years of such complaints, some relief is in the offing. The city's Economic Development Corporation, which oversees the heliport, said in an application for a new 10-year zoning permit that takeoffs and landings will be cut 47 percent next year, to approximately 28,000 or an average of 77 per day. "We're trying to balance the needs of the city's economy with the community's concerns," said Adam Brodsky, a development corporation spokesman.
But the proposed reduction does not appear to satisfy long-suffering neighbors. On Wednesday, Community Board 6 is expected to adopt a resolution calling for flights to begin at 8 A.M. and stop at 8 P.M. instead of the current 7 A.M. to 11 P.M. The board is also seeking a complete ban on weekend flights. "Give two days of peace and quiet so residents can enjoy the neighborhood they pay so dearly to live in," said William Oddo, its transportation chairman. The board's vote, however, is not binding on the Planning Commission and the City Council, which have the final say on zoning applications.
Right now, the heliport and its operator, National Helicopter Corporation of America, are in a legal limbo. National Helicopter's lease lapsed last week -- and the heliport's last zoning permit expired in 1976. For many years the company was unaware that a permit was needed, said Jay Segal, a lawyer for National Helicopter, and the application's environmental analysis turned out to be complex.
Mr. Oddo maintains that the site is ill-suited for aviation. "You have the world's busiest heliport operating on a postage stamp-size facility, no more than an acre," he said. Most flights are for sightseeing, which he said would be better handled at the heliport off Wall Street or the one along the Hudson River near the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. Both are in less residential areas and closer to tourist activities.
The East 34th Street Heliport's nearest neighbor, New York University Medical Center, complains that noise and fumes it generates bother patients and have forced the hospital to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on filtering. "The fumes cause eye, ear, nose and throat irritations and can get to the point where they are nauseating," said Jean Goldberg, an N.Y.U. environmental official. "Our Gimbel Gardens are virtually unusable because of the odors."
Mr. Segal, the lawyer, defended National Heliport. "They try to operate in a way that is the most safe and least noisy," he said. "The heliport provides a valuable service as a key part of the city's transportation system and as a thing tourists really like to do." He also pointed out that the heliport existed before most of the high-rise apartment towers nearby were built.
But pointing to the lack of both a lease and a zoning permit, Mr. Oddo of C.B. 6, called the heliport "an outlaw operation for two decades." BRUCE LAMBERT

GRAPHIC: Chart: "COPTER WATCH: Heliport Flight Log" shows annual takeoffs and landings at the East 34th Street Heliport from '76-'94. (Source: N.Y.C. Economic Development Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HELICOPTER CORP (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available HELICOPTERS (90%); ZONING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); CITIES (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM ODDO (70%); JAY SEGAL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1995



186 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 33; Column 1; The City Weekly/Queens

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MIDTOWN/CLINTON;
Fur Trade Wanes, But Its Cradle Finds New Life

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

 BODY:
When Tom Gigi started in the fur business 40 years ago, West 30th Street from Avenue of the Americas to Eighth Avenue was thick with rack runners, jobbers and sewing-machine operators. "During lunch, you'd be forced into the street by the crowds," recalled Mr. Gigi, 65, a coat manufacturer. "It was a great time to be a furrier."
Although it remains the heart of the nation's fur trade, these days the fur district is more likely to house accountants or photographers than pelt merchants. "This used to be strictly a fur neighborhood, but we've seen a significant change in the past five years," said Vincent Terranova, executive vice president of Bernstein Real Estate. The company, which owns or manages 10 area buildings, says fur-related businesses have been supplanted by a hodgepodge of users, from newspaper publishers to carpet dealers to light-fixture makers. 
 Those furriers who survive tend to be concentrated in a handful of buildings, like 150 West 30th Street and 345 Seventh Avenue, Mr. Terranova said. Conversion of other bulky loft space south of Pennsylvania Station usually requires costly removal of storage vaults and refrigeration equipment. At 17 percent, the area's vacancy rate is much higher than a decade ago. Current rents on West 30th Street range from $8 to $12 a square foot, compared with $10 to $20 in the garment district, a few blocks north, where the economic picture has brightened somewhat in recent years.
But New York's fur industry has been buffeted hard by animal-rights advocates, a weak economy, cheap imports and a string of warm winters. And the future, some industry analysts say, looks even bleaker.
Nat Berkowitz, who opened Miller & Berkowitz furriers in 1950, knows only too well how times have changed. Customers who once bought a new coat every five years now make do with older furs or squeeze into those that do not quite fit. In summers past, his chilled vault at 224 West 30th Street overflowed with 8,000 coats left for storage by loyal clients. This year, the number is down to 6,500. "People would rather save the money," Mr. Berkowitz, 66, said. "It used to be that when you drove up the New York State Thruway to the Catskill resorts, there would be a mink stole hanging in every car window."
When Maureen Locke was looking for space to open her company, Versailles Lighting, the fur district was an obvious choice. Her husband's family has run Mechutan Fur on West 30th Street since the 1920's. "The fur business is going down the tubes, but I think this is a great neighborhood," said Ms. Locke, who has rented an entire floor above Miller and Berkowitz since June. She cited the district's reasonable rents, generous space and proximity to mass transit. "I can see Penn Station from my window," she said. "You can't beat that." ANDREW JACOBS

GRAPHIC: Photo: Space in the Fur District used to be scarce, but the fur business has dwindled. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 
Graph: "A District in Decline" shows the number of fur manufacturers from '55-'95. (Sources: Associated Fur Manufacturers, Fur Information Council of America)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available REAL ESTATE (90%); FUR APPAREL STORES (90%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (90%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); APPAREL MFG (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (74%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (53%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1995



187 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2602 words

HEADLINE: Second Homes: Not Prime Time

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
ELEANOR WILSON had an auction a couple of Saturdays ago, when, she said, the local auctioneer "came and took all the lovely things away."
As she spoke, she sighed; it was a swift, offhand gesture, one so expressive and encompassing of her 40-foot living room that it was easy to imagine polished 200-year-old highboys and beautifully faded turkey-red rugs and Italian paintings strewn around the place like toys in a child's playroom. 
 But even bare, the house is romantic: an old mill in Stockbridge, Mass., with the big brown mill wheel visible out the double doors to the deck, the dark autumn water rushing through the sluiceway below.
Ms. Wilson came up from New York City one weekend in 1947 to try out for a show at the Berkshire Playhouse. Driving up from Great Barrington, through the mountains, she vowed to someday buy a house and settle down. In 1955, she bought the mill house at auction; she became both actress and producer; she gave parties; she settled down. Now, she is worried her vision is failing and she won't be able to drive much longer. She is selling the mill house.
In the late 80's, her house -- a fantasy of Life in the Berkshires -- would have sold in a flash and might have been priced higher than the current $450,000, according to Richard S. Jackson Jr. of the Wheeler and Taylor Realty Company, who listed the house in June. But things are very different in the vacation-home market in New England, according to brokers interviewed. "I got you an offer," Mr. Jackson whispered to Ms. Wilson one recent afternoon. "But it's so low I'm not even going to tell you."
"What is it?" the white-haired woman asked eagerly. "I'll call you," he replied. The offer, he said later, was for $250,000.
George Ballantyne, the vice president of Sotheby's International Realty in charge of the company's listings from Maine to Fairfield County, Conn., said that the number of sales of luxury vacation properties -- houses selling for over $400,000 -- was down 50 percent from last year in some parts of his territory.
For lower-priced beach bungalows, ski chalets and forest-enveloped farmhouses, from New England to upper New York State to New Jersey to Pennsylvania, the market is erratic. But generally, the mid-range vacation or second-home properties -- from $300,000 to $500,000 -- seem to be a tough sell almost everywhere, while the lowest-priced properties are selling about as well as they did in 1994, a year real estate brokers heralded as the end of the recession, although now are not so sure.
IN places like Long Beach Island, N.J., a long strip of beachfront with a boardwalk and concession stands blazoned with colorful signs, the upper end has slowed to a crawl. But Charles J. Traina, an agent with Prudential Zack Realty in Long Beach Island, said that houses selling for between $140,000 and $280,000 were moving at a pace equal to last year. On the mainland, in Ship Bottom and Manahawkin, Mr. Traina said, 90 percent of the homes he sold in the 80's were vacation homes. The figure has now dropped to 50 percent, he said.
According to Mr. Traina and other realtors, some customers say they are reluctant to put disposable income into supporting a mortgage that may not remain tax-deductible. Congress has repeatedly threatened to take away the second-home mortgage interest deduction. "The whole political atmosphere has changed, and people don't know what's going to happen," he said.
The customers also seem wary of taking on a property that requires any work or substantial regular maintenance, he said. When the market was booming, even the wealthier buyers liked "fixer-uppers"; they brought in their architects and decorators and transformed the rambling old wrecks into rambling old summer houses. But now, agents say, even the well-to-do see a highly taxed or high-maintenance second home as a risky investment.
"What I'm seeing is a move away from maintenance-intensive properties, in areas like Newport, the Berkshires, in different areas of Maine, Vermont and New Hampshire," said Mr. Ballantyne, who has been selling in the region for 12 years. "There's always been a large summer community in Manchester and Dorset, Vt., for example, and so far, there's only been one sale this year I know of -- from all brokers -- of more than $400,000."
A year ago, he added, there were several sales there over $1 million.
In Newport, R.I., a traditional summer resort for Bostonians and New Yorkers, there has been only one sale of great magnitude in the last 18 months, the Sotheby's executive said. "Seacliff on Bellevue Avenue sold for $1.225 million earlier this month," he said. "If you compare that with three years ago, Fairholme was sold for $3.5 million and Wyndham sold for $2-plus million."
In Grafton, Vt., the historic village restored under the leadership of a foundation, Bob Barrett of Barrett and Company Real Estate said that the market for vacation and second homes still seemed to be falling, paralleling the market for all of Southern Vermont.
WITH few exceptions in New England, brokers are reporting that their customers -- for almost every price level of vacation house -- are fewer in number, and harder to convince. Weekend and vacation home buyers don't really have to buy, said one agent after another, so they can weigh their options. In many cases, they may decide to "consolidate" their money into a bigger, better, newer primary residence, Mr. Ballantyne said.
Privately, agents say buyers of second homes may be reluctant to invest in New England because of perceptions about its economy -- reports of plant closings and layoffs cheer neither realtors nor prospective buyers.
Then again, today's second-home buyers may just be feeling more adventurous; agents say they have seen might-have-been buyers pack up and head for an Art Deco apartment in the South Beach section of Miami, a 200-acre lodge in the Finger Lakes region of New York, a ranch in Wyoming and land bordering a whispering, sparkling trout stream in Montana.
Closer to home, in the Hamptons and along the Jersey shore, in the Poconos and in New York State closer than the Finger Lakes, the market varies widely.
Agents in the Hamptons report strong sales in the premier properties and a flat or decreasing market for 1970's and 80's contemporaries north of the main thoroughfare, the Montauk Highway.
The lower Jersey shore, around Cape May, is selling to Philadelphians, according to agents, but the upper part, including Long Beach Island, appears to be struggling, they say. Imposing properties in the Adirondacks are beginning to show some vitality, and within the last year, some wealthy buyers -- including Robert and Blaine Trump and Liam Neeson and his wife, Natasha Richardson -- headed for Millbrook, N.Y., where they can buy privacy and a 37-acre "gentleman's farm" on a hill for several million dollars.
In Westchester, not usually thought of as a second-home location, buyers of such homes are frequently older than elsewhere, and the properties they purchase are also out of the usual vacation-home pattern, according to Alix Sara Prince, a vice president at Julia B. Fee Real Estate. She said the bulk of the second-home buyers there are retirees, who may have sold their big home in the neighborhood, bought a primary residence in Florida or the Carolinas and decided to buy one of the new condominiums, like Doral Greens in Rye Brook, where units sell for $350,000 to $750,000, in order to keep up their friendships -- and their golf games.
"The young people are bypassing us, heading for the up-counties of New York State and Connecticut," she said.
Sam Strong, of the agency that bears his name in Old Lyme, Conn., Has put three houses in the Fenwick and North Cove sections of Old Saybrook under contract at more than $1 million each in the last two months. But he said that vacation houses were "a tough sell; the second-home market is heavily depressed."
"The buyers feel it is harder to justify spending a lot of money on a second home, as opposed to the 80's when people thought, 'Maybe this is a bit extravagant, but what the heck -- it'll be worth a couple hundred grand more in a year,' " Mr. Strong said. "Now they ask if I think they could get their money back if they have to sell."
Despite his own major sales recently, which he said "broke down 50-50 in terms of primary home/second home buyers," Mr. Strong estimated that the vacation home market was down about 30 percent in his own area, on Long Island Sound about two hours from midtown Manhattan.
"They want big and they want new," said Mr. Strong, adding that one man bought a $1.25 million house in Hamburg Cove recently -- and ripped it down to build a new one. "The old dream of old and quaint is gone," he said. "Now they want something with absolutely no work."
Those who are buying expensive vacation homes tend to be younger, according to agents almost everywhere. "They are more apt to be the 30-year-old computer whiz and his family," said Mr. Ballantyne, the Sotheby's director.
Mr. Ballantyne reported that there were pockets that appeared to be coming back strong: Cotuit and Osterville, on Cape Cod, he said, had "pretty impressive" sales this year, and he predicted the number of sales there would surpass last year's number.
At the same time, brokers report vacation home sales in the lowest ranges are selling. Mr. Strong said that "beach-cottagey" houses priced between $100,000 and $180,000 were selling "pretty well."
"It's houses in the $300,000 to $600,000, $700,000 range that are hurting," Mr. Strong said, paralleling the comments of other local realtors.
In the Hamptons, realtors agree that more and more people are buying houses, not just for the summer, but for weekends year-round. And they agree that the biggest houses are selling the best -- and for prices that in many cases are higher than they have ever been. They also agree that poorly built, poorly designed houses from the 1970's and 1980's -- especially if they are north of the main highway -- are not moving.
Frederick Butti, office manager of Dayton/Halstead Realty in East Hampton, said he was not sure that this year was as good as last year in terms of second-home sales. "Last year was very strong, and it has quieted down this year," he said. "The high end is moving, but the under $250,000, $300,000 range is just starting to get moving. The year started very slowly."
FRANK NEWBOLD, of Braverman Newbold Brennan, said that for his agency, sales of blue-chip properties -- large estates and even land in prime locations -- were up about 25 percent over sales two years ago.
He gave as an example a 2.4-acre wooded building lot on Briarpatch Road in the Georgica section of East Hampton Village, considered a prime spot. Three years ago, he said, the plot sold for $450,000; last week, it closed for $650,000.
Increasingly, he said, buyers are looking for "a protected place, with views of far fields, a glimpse of the water or a Village setting under a 100-year-old elm tree; they keep using the phrase 'a sense of place.' "
Right now, Mr. Newbold has a couple of properties for sale -- an Arts and Crafts cottage for $398,000 and an Italianate mansion for $1.35 million -- that he said exemplify the need for a "sense of place" and also satisfy the prospective buyer's increasing insistence on a place that needs no renovations.
Rose Cottage in Bridgehampton, on the ocean side of the highway, has been on the market for a year, but its former price of $425,000 was reduced to $395,000 at the end of the summer, when the tenants left and it could be showed more easily.
"It's been restored down to the last shingle and the last rose," said Mr. Newbold. "You don't walk in and say, 'I've got to find a painter;' there's literally thousands of roses planted in the 1920's, when it was built, dripping all over the place."
In Sag Harbor, Boxwood, on Main Street down the road from the Whaling Museum, is the kind of "maintenance-intensive" place that agents say is increasingly difficult to sell.
An 1860 ship captain's house with six bedrooms and a library with bright yellow walls and a gas fireplace, the house came on the market in the last month and is owned by an antiques dealer, so has been furnished and maintained to perfection.
Because the house requires substantial upkeep, Mr. Newbold said, "you've obviously lost some of the market: the buyer who says, 'It's a great place -- I'd like to come here to dinner once.' " Nevertheless, he predicted it would sell -- eventually.
"It'll be sold to the person who walks in, their jaw drops and they say: 'I've just got to have it,' " he said.
Like his colleagues in New England, Mr. Newbold reports that second-home buyers are young. But they have entirely different interests than their 1980's Hamptons counterparts, he said.
"Ten years ago, they wanted to know where the hippest disco was," he said. "Now they want to know where the nearest day care is -- the streets are crowded with strollers. They want to know how they can join the nature preserve, and they want to sign up for the tour of historic homes."
BESIDES the Hamptons, there are other areas that New Yorkers are choosing; one young woman with a husband and a 2-year-old daughter said her choice for a weekend house would be Buck Hill Falls, in the Poconos.
"It's like going to camp for grownups," said Mary Kelly Selover, a design writer and editor who rented there for five weeks and is looking at houses to buy. "You get up in the morning and drive half a mile to play tennis as long as you want; you go home and make lunch, you pick up the kids; you jump in the pool, you hop out and play a quick nine holes of golf. You drive to the farmer's market; you have a drink and make dinner; at nine o'clock you go to bed with a good book. It's very comfortable."
The buyer of a house in Buck Hill Falls does have to join the Buck Hill Falls Association for about $2,300 a year, no matter how big or small a house one purchases. But for that, the homeowner gets to play golf and tennis for a nominal fee, attend the band concerts and send the children to the camp club, where they can swim in the children's pool. They also benefit from the security force.
"It isn't a kind of security team that carries guns," said Virginia Hood, who runs a real estate company there. "One time a bat flew into a woman's house and the security people were called to get it out."
The comfortable, safe, camplike aura of the place -- built as a Quaker summer meeting place at the turn of the century -- is enveloping, said Ms. Selover. "There's security, and you can get people to clean the house and take care of your children. Why would I want to go on vacation and work like a dog?"
Ms. Hood has a variety of houses for sale in Buck Hill Falls now, from a $129,000 gambrel-roofed bungalow on 1.7 acres with the "grand mountain view" to a quaint old $425,000 wood and stone "cottage." While Buck Hill Falls, along with Skytop and the rest of Barrett Township, remains "a buyer's market," the realtor said her sales were "rolling along" -- especially in the last two weeks.
"I don't know what it is," she said. "I heard from somebody that things are getting better in New York City, and we're tied to them, but we're so busy we've taken in five contracts this week." Two of them were in Buck Hill Falls, she added, where she sells primarily second homes. One house is being bought by someone from New York; the other buyer is from New Jersey.
"I'm just crossing my fingers," she said, "and hoping it's going to last."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 29, 1995, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 8 about the vacation-home market referred incorrectly to Long Beach Island, N.J. It does not have a boardwalk and concession stands.

GRAPHIC: Photos: House, top, in Stockbridge, Mass., with a giant mill wheel visible from the deck, is on the market for $450,000. Gambrel-roofed bungalow, above left, in Buck Hills Falls in the Poconos is for sale at $129,000. Rose Cottage, right, on the ocean side of Bridgehampton, L.I., goes for $398,000. (pg. 1) (Fred LeBlanc for The New York Times (top); Andrea Mohin/The New York Times (left); Michael Shavel for The New York Times (right).; Eleanor Wilson at her mill house in Stockbridge, Mass. Left, a house on 19.4 acres in West Stockbridge, off Route 41, is on the market for $575,000. The asking price had been $625,000. (pg. 8) (Photographs by Fred LeBlanc for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); ; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (92%); AUCTIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (86%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (78%); ART DEALERS (76%); HOME PRICES (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); PAINTING (73%); MOUNTAINS (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (69%); SKIING (68%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE ELEANOR WILSON (73%); BOB BARRETT (57%); GEORGE BALLANTYNE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



188 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 14; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: Common Cause

BYLINE: By William Finnegan; William Finnegan, the author of "Crossing the Line: A Year in the Land of Apartheid," is currently writing a book about race and downward mobility in four American communities.

 BODY:

BLACK LIBERATION
A Comparative History
of Black Ideologies in the
United States and South Africa.
By George M. Fredrickson.
390 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press. $30. 
 GEORGE M. FREDRICKSON'S "White Supremacy: A Comparative Study in American and South African History," published in 1981, was a masterpiece of sorts. By looking at the practice of racial subjugation as it developed in two widely separated societies, "White Supremacy" managed to illuminate each country's cruel history from new and arresting angles. The book's signal flaw was its dearth of black actors. Even allowing for its focus on white rule, the virtual invisibility of blacks in its pages was weird, seeming to suggest that the victims of racism had passively suffered their oppression. Now, as if to correct this impression, comes a long-awaited companion volume, "Black Liberation: A Comparative History of Black Ideologies in the United States and South Africa."
Mr. Fredrickson, the Edgar E. Robinson Professor of United States History at Stanford University, has again found a rich field for comparative study. He finesses the problem of the fundamental difference between the situation of black South Africans, an indigenous majority, and that of African-Americans, a minority whose ancestors were transported slaves, in part by elevating status over demographics (thus finding black South Africans under white rule "a minority in terms of their access to political, social and economic power") and in part by strictly limiting his historical canvas. "Black Liberation" begins in the mid-19th century. It elides both the American slave rebellions and the southern African wars of colonial conquest, and it effectively ends in the 1970's, before majority rule was really visible on the South African horizon.
While further limiting himself to "a study of protest on behalf of racial equality rather than of revolutionary action," Mr. Fredrickson defines protest broadly enough that he includes, for example, a lengthy discussion of the black Christian separatist movement known as Ethiopianism (in both its American and southern African variants), reaching backward to Prester John and forward to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. In passing, Mr. Fredrickson relates the philosophical lineage of Ethiopianism to the reaction against the Enlightenment. What we have here is not, obviously, social history, culled from primary sources to reconstruct ordinary lives, but intellectual history, concentrated, as the book's subtitle says, on "ideologies" and deriving its material mainly from public statements, published writings and the work of other historians.
Black Americans and black South Africans actually have, as it is said, a history together. Turn-of-the-century South African black leaders who visited the United States, like Sol Plaatje and John Dube, were inspired by Booker T. Washington's Tuskegee Institute, and they subscribed to The Crisis, the magazine of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, then edited by W. E. B. Du Bois. Early African-American missionaries and musicians who visited South Africa left lasting impressions, and Christian millenarian movements in the Transkei region after World War I believed that black American aviators were coming to liberate them from white oppression. More practically, African-American political pressure was crucial to the imposition of the international economic sanctions that helped defeat apartheid.
But "Black Liberation" is less concerned with specific interactions than it is with close cross-referencing. At its best, this comparative method yields shrewd generalizations. For example, the combined spectacle of Northern Republicans enforcing the black franchise in the Reconstruction South while, in the Cape Colony, the British authorities were defying their Afrikaner subjects by creating a partial black franchise produces the observation that, in both cases, "adherence to liberal ideals of equal rights helped to enable one ethnic or sectional division of the white population to maintain its hegemony over another."
Or, in a discussion of the great (if fleeting) success of two black populist movements in the early 1920's -- Garveyism in the United States and the Industrial and Commercial Workers' Union in South Africa -- comes this: "The eclectic and ambiguous quality of populist ideologies is a source of strength when it comes to organizing relatively inarticulate people who know that something is terribly wrong but resist abstract and rationalized interpretations of what it is." Mr. Fredrickson's account of these populist movements is particularly strong, showcasing his ability to relate tidy intellectual history to the sprawling mess of facts -- how, say, Garveyites in Cleveland or Los Angeles might actually have picked and chosen among Marcus Garvey's ideas.
There is, moreover, a good deal of resonance between contemporary politics and some of the ideas treated here in their historical context, on the American side of the story especially. When Frederick Douglass opposes the idea of free homesteads for former slaves after the Civil War, arguing that "if the Negro cannot stand on his own legs let him fall," the modern affirmative action supporter is given pause (after the pause, Douglass seems, to me anyway, to have been disastrously mistaken). In what Mr. Fredrickson calls Ethiopianism's "romantic racialist conception of black moral superiority," the roots of Leonard Jeffries's crackpot essentialism are plainly discernible.
And yet recent history, which is to say the postwar period, is this book's weakest suit by far. American and South African racial politics "diverged decisively," as Mr. Fredrickson notes, after World War II, with the great apartheid crackdown starting in the same year (1948) that Harry Truman, worried about the black votes he needed for re-election, ordered the desegregation of the armed forces. Mr. Fredrickson attempts to compare the American civil rights movement of the 1950's and early 1960's with the South African freedom struggle of the same era through the prism of Gandhian nonviolent resistance, a philosophy to which leaders of both movements partly subscribed. Even after allowing for the basic differences between the challenges each movement faced -- the American struggle had, for a start, the United States Constitution on its side -- this approach creates a skewed version of events, particularly in South Africa, where Mr. Fredrickson's efforts to hold movement leaders to a Gandhian standard become scolding and silly.
A historian of the United States first and foremost, Mr. Fredrickson is not always on solid factual ground in South Africa. He chides Nelson Mandela, on flimsy evidence, for ignorance of the history of African Christianity. Seeking to trace "the spirit of Gandhi" in his brief sketch of the events of the last 20 years, he draws a misleading distinction between the above-ground anti-apartheid coalition of the 1980's, the United Democratic Front, and its underground ally, the African National Congress. He describes the U.D.F.'s campaigns in 1989 as "the first disciplined nonviolent actions against specific segregation policies since 1960," when in reality the group had been leading peaceful boycotts and demonstrations for a good five years by then (as Mr. Fredrickson himself acknowledges elsewhere). This tendentiousness -- not to mention the passionate brief the author carries for Christian activists, whom at one point he calls "fearless men of God" -- dulls and distorts the last section of an otherwise magisterial book.
The breathtaking triumph of democracy in South Africa has lent a poignant additional symmetry to Mr. Fredrickson's twin comparative studies. In the introduction to "White Supremacy" he expressed a hope that oppressed South Africans, locked in a seemingly hopeless struggle for freedom, might take heart from the successes of the American civil rights movement. Now, 14 years later, in the epilogue to "Black Liberation" his valediction is the opposite: that the moribund campaign for racial equality in this country might look to South Africa for lessons. In a sense, though, both countries today face the same challenge: how to translate formal political rights into economic progress and social hope for the millions who are still poor and still profoundly disadvantaged.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BLACK LIBERATION (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (73%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); COMMON CAUSE (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMON CAUSE (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); LITERATURE (77%); SLAVERY (74%); 

PERSON: FINNEGAN, WILLIAM; FREDRICKSON, GEORGE M (PROF) GEORGE M FREDRICKSON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



189 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 14; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: Common Cause

BYLINE: By William Finnegan; William Finnegan, the author of "Crossing the Line: A Year in the Land of Apartheid," is currently writing a book about race and downward mobility in four American communities.

 BODY:

BLACK LIBERATION
A Comparative History
of Black Ideologies in the
United States and South Africa.
By George M. Fredrickson.
390 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press. $30. 
 GEORGE M. FREDRICKSON'S "White Supremacy: A Comparative Study in American and South African History," published in 1981, was a masterpiece of sorts. By looking at the practice of racial subjugation as it developed in two widely separated societies, "White Supremacy" managed to illuminate each country's cruel history from new and arresting angles. The book's signal flaw was its dearth of black actors. Even allowing for its focus on white rule, the virtual invisibility of blacks in its pages was weird, seeming to suggest that the victims of racism had passively suffered their oppression. Now, as if to correct this impression, comes a long-awaited companion volume, "Black Liberation: A Comparative History of Black Ideologies in the United States and South Africa."
Mr. Fredrickson, the Edgar E. Robinson Professor of United States History at Stanford University, has again found a rich field for comparative study. He finesses the problem of the fundamental difference between the situation of black South Africans, an indigenous majority, and that of African-Americans, a minority whose ancestors were transported slaves, in part by elevating status over demographics (thus finding black South Africans under white rule "a minority in terms of their access to political, social and economic power") and in part by strictly limiting his historical canvas. "Black Liberation" begins in the mid-19th century. It elides both the American slave rebellions and the southern African wars of colonial conquest, and it effectively ends in the 1970's, before majority rule was really visible on the South African horizon.
While further limiting himself to "a study of protest on behalf of racial equality rather than of revolutionary action," Mr. Fredrickson defines protest broadly enough that he includes, for example, a lengthy discussion of the black Christian separatist movement known as Ethiopianism (in both its American and southern African variants), reaching backward to Prester John and forward to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. In passing, Mr. Fredrickson relates the philosophical lineage of Ethiopianism to the reaction against the Enlightenment. What we have here is not, obviously, social history, culled from primary sources to reconstruct ordinary lives, but intellectual history, concentrated, as the book's subtitle says, on "ideologies" and deriving its material mainly from public statements, published writings and the work of other historians.
Black Americans and black South Africans actually have, as it is said, a history together. Turn-of-the-century South African black leaders who visited the United States, like Sol Plaatje and John Dube, were inspired by Booker T. Washington's Tuskegee Institute, and they subscribed to The Crisis, the magazine of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, then edited by W. E. B. Du Bois. Early African-American missionaries and musicians who visited South Africa left lasting impressions, and Christian millenarian movements in the Transkei region after World War I believed that black American aviators were coming to liberate them from white oppression. More practically, African-American political pressure was crucial to the imposition of the international economic sanctions that helped defeat apartheid.
But "Black Liberation" is less concerned with specific interactions than it is with close cross-referencing. At its best, this comparative method yields shrewd generalizations. For example, the combined spectacle of Northern Republicans enforcing the black franchise in the Reconstruction South while, in the Cape Colony, the British authorities were defying their Afrikaner subjects by creating a partial black franchise produces the observation that, in both cases, "adherence to liberal ideals of equal rights helped to enable one ethnic or sectional division of the white population to maintain its hegemony over another."
Or, in a discussion of the great (if fleeting) success of two black populist movements in the early 1920's -- Garveyism in the United States and the Industrial and Commercial Workers' Union in South Africa -- comes this: "The eclectic and ambiguous quality of populist ideologies is a source of strength when it comes to organizing relatively inarticulate people who know that something is terribly wrong but resist abstract and rationalized interpretations of what it is." Mr. Fredrickson's account of these populist movements is particularly strong, showcasing his ability to relate tidy intellectual history to the sprawling mess of facts -- how, say, Garveyites in Cleveland or Los Angeles might actually have picked and chosen among Marcus Garvey's ideas.
There is, moreover, a good deal of resonance between contemporary politics and some of the ideas treated here in their historical context, on the American side of the story especially. When Frederick Douglass opposes the idea of free homesteads for former slaves after the Civil War, arguing that "if the Negro cannot stand on his own legs let him fall," the modern affirmative action supporter is given pause (after the pause, Douglass seems, to me anyway, to have been disastrously mistaken). In what Mr. Fredrickson calls Ethiopianism's "romantic racialist conception of black moral superiority," the roots of Leonard Jeffries's crackpot essentialism are plainly discernible.
And yet recent history, which is to say the postwar period, is this book's weakest suit by far. American and South African racial politics "diverged decisively," as Mr. Fredrickson notes, after World War II, with the great apartheid crackdown starting in the same year (1948) that Harry Truman, worried about the black votes he needed for re-election, ordered the desegregation of the armed forces. Mr. Fredrickson attempts to compare the American civil rights movement of the 1950's and early 1960's with the South African freedom struggle of the same era through the prism of Gandhian nonviolent resistance, a philosophy to which leaders of both movements partly subscribed. Even after allowing for the basic differences between the challenges each movement faced -- the American struggle had, for a start, the United States Constitution on its side -- this approach creates a skewed version of events, particularly in South Africa, where Mr. Fredrickson's efforts to hold movement leaders to a Gandhian standard become scolding and silly.
A historian of the United States first and foremost, Mr. Fredrickson is not always on solid factual ground in South Africa. He chides Nelson Mandela, on flimsy evidence, for ignorance of the history of African Christianity. Seeking to trace "the spirit of Gandhi" in his brief sketch of the events of the last 20 years, he draws a misleading distinction between the above-ground anti-apartheid coalition of the 1980's, the United Democratic Front, and its underground ally, the African National Congress. He describes the U.D.F.'s campaigns in 1989 as "the first disciplined nonviolent actions against specific segregation policies since 1960," when in reality the group had been leading peaceful boycotts and demonstrations for a good five years by then (as Mr. Fredrickson himself acknowledges elsewhere). This tendentiousness -- not to mention the passionate brief the author carries for Christian activists, whom at one point he calls "fearless men of God" -- dulls and distorts the last section of an otherwise magisterial book.
The breathtaking triumph of democracy in South Africa has lent a poignant additional symmetry to Mr. Fredrickson's twin comparative studies. In the introduction to "White Supremacy" he expressed a hope that oppressed South Africans, locked in a seemingly hopeless struggle for freedom, might take heart from the successes of the American civil rights movement. Now, 14 years later, in the epilogue to "Black Liberation" his valediction is the opposite: that the moribund campaign for racial equality in this country might look to South Africa for lessons. In a sense, though, both countries today face the same challenge: how to translate formal political rights into economic progress and social hope for the millions who are still poor and still profoundly disadvantaged.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BLACK LIBERATION (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (73%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); COMMON CAUSE (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMON CAUSE (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); LITERATURE (77%); SLAVERY (74%); 

PERSON: FINNEGAN, WILLIAM; FREDRICKSON, GEORGE M (PROF) GEORGE M FREDRICKSON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



190 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 22; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: ATLANTIC CITY;
Jim Usry's Town

BYLINE: By BILL KENT 

 BODY:
IT was a fine crowd that helped the comedian Slappy White blow out 74 candles on his cake at the Hickory House Bar last Saturday. Past and current nightclub owners from New York and Philadelphia arrived in expensive cars and limousines. Former dancers, musicians and stagehands from Atlantic City's nightclub era (of which Mr. White was a mainstay) greeted each other like old friends.
But while Mr. White was the guest of honor, it was the host, James L. Usry, who got all the attention. Tall and lean at 73, the former Mayor of Atlantic City -- ousted in 1990 while under a corruption indictment -- worked the room much as he had in the 1940's, when he was maitre d'hotel of the Club Harlem on Kentucky Avenue and a basketball star with the Harlem Globetrotters. 
 Between greetings, Mr. Usry was asked how he had spent the last five years. Keeping a low profile, he replied. He is a substitute teacher in the public school system. He sits on the boards of the local Salvation Army and of Lincoln University in Pennsylvania.
It was anything but a low profile that he kept for six contentious years as Atlantic City's first black Mayor. He rose to power in the public school system as a charismatic teacher and administrator with strong community ties. And when he ran for mayor of a city whose government seemed permanently racked by corruption scandals, he was greeted as a primary example of what Thomas H. Kean, then Governor, called the "politics of inclusion."
Mr. Usry was an advocate for housing, education, affirmative action and welfare programs that would benefit Atlantic City's black majority. And many of the city's most visible improvements, including the redevelopment of the Northeast Inlet neighborhood, were planned when he was Mayor. But he could not rein in a highly factional ized, racially and economically divided city.
His seeming failure to promote the interests of the casino and hospitality industry over those of his cronies -- a few of whom have since been jailed on bribery and extortion charges -- put him at odds with state government and journalists. Then, in July 1989, while he was recovering from shoulder surgery and under the influence of painkillers, he accepted an envelope containing $6,000 in cash from a local businessman named Albert Black. He told Mr. Black that he would use the money to buy tickets for children and elderly people who couldn't afford the $250 admission to a fund-raiser for his re-election campaign.
On the morning of July 27, state troopers awakened him at home, handcuffed him and took him to the National Guard Armory, across Absecon Boulevard from the Hickory House Bar. He and 14 others were charged with taking part in an influence-peddling conspiracy. In 1990, he lost his re-election bid to James Whelan, who is still Mayor.
All the major charges against Mr. Usry were later dropped when he pleaded guilty to improper reporting of campaign contributions and agreed to do 60 hours of community service with the Salvation Army.
Today, in Atlantic City, Mr. Usry's downfall still draws the kind of racially polarized comments that have become a dismal mantra in city after city. "No one believes -- for one instant -- that Jim Usry was corrupt," said John Whittington, chairman of the Atlantic City Housing Authority, who is black. "Jim was a victim of the same kind of racism you see in every municipality in this country." For his part, Mr. Black, who is white, said the Usry prosecution "was absolutely and unequivocally not racially motivated."
Mr. Usry says his past no longer bothers him. "I believe God is good all the time," he said. "I pray morning and night that this stigma will be lifted." And despite the stigma, he said, he has had "a good life."
"I knew everybody who was anybody at the Club Harlem," he went on. "I've met the Queen of England. I've been to Africa, Europe and Israel." Although he is still a Republican "in good standing," he said his days in politics were over.
Mr. Whittington disagreed. "This is a small town," he said. "There's no way an ex-mayor is going to stay out of the picture."

GRAPHIC: Photo: James L. Usry, standing, with the comedian Slappy White. The former Mayor says his days in politics are over; others aren't so sure. (Lenore Victoria Davis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTIC CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BLACKS MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICS (86%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LODGING (76%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (76%); ETHICS (76%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (72%); RACE & RACISM (72%); CHILDREN (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); EXTORTION (69%); SCANDALS (69%); INDICTMENTS (69%); BRIBERY (69%); BASKETBALL (68%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (68%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (57%); SENIOR CITIZENS (56%); 

PERSON: USRY, JAMES L; KENT, BILL JAMES L USRY (95%); ALBERT BLACK (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



191 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 13; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: The Pope vs. the Culture of Death

BYLINE: By Paul Baumann; Paul Baumann is the associate editor of Commonweal magazine.

DATELINE: NOANK, Conn.

 BODY:
It is probably not a coincidence that Pope John Paul II has come to America only six months after posting his sternest rebuke yet of modern -- essentially American -- mores and culture.
"Evangelium Vitae" (Gospel of Life), the papal encyclical released in March, envisions a deepening, almost Manichaean struggle between "a culture of death" and "a culture of life." Abortion and euthanasia, the Pope argues, are threats to democracy. He says that our liberal society is myopically concerned with efficiency and increasingly characterized by a war of the powerful against the weak. 
 The Pope attributes an erosion of respect for human life to our exaggerated individualism and to the materialism, hedonism and moral relativism it fosters. He says we have turned a blind eye to the "necessary conformity of civil law with the moral law."
For Americans, schooled to respect the ideal that civil and moral law are separate entities, it is jarring to hear this admonition that they should be brought exactly into line.
The centerpiece of the Pope's argument is that there are certain objective moral facts that cannot be altered, even by our society's instincts toward moral pluralism, compassion and majority rule. Abortion and euthanasia are crimes, he says, and societies where such killing is allowed will invariably revert to barbarianism and list toward totalitarianism.
Strong words. The encyclical was enthusiastically received by Roman Catholics on both ends of the ideological spectrum. Conservatives cheered the absolute sexual norms while liberals applauded the criticism of materialism. Yet the reaction of those in the wary middle, Catholic or not, was muted. It is possible to agree with the Pope's judgment about the moral precariousness of modern life and yet question his stringent critique of contemporary culture.
Americans rightly detected a note of very European petulance in the Pope's reaction to the diversity, the rough and tumble, of American pluralism. Americans are a notoriously pragmatic lot, and being lectured to about the theoretical foundations of democracy by those with little practical experience of democracy arouses an instinctive skepticism.
Looking at myself and my neighbors, I'm not so sure that hedonism is an overwhelming temptation. Though I believe that abortion is killing, I honestly do not know to what extent its legalization has corrupted the larger moral tenor of our lives. I can imagine worse crimes, and hear about them every day.
Neither is consumerism the simple manifestation of greed that the Pope implies it to be. It is much more the inevitable result of a culture of very competitive individualists. It is, for better and worse, the signature of mass democracy.
Democracy, the Pope rightly notes, cannot be an end in itself; the popular will is not infallible. But most Americans, perhaps even most American Catholics, are not convinced that counseling tolerance on issues such as abortion, where moral views seem irreconcilable, is a first step on the road to totalitarianism. Much of our history tells us otherwise: This country's increased tolerance of religious differences and sexual orientations in the latter half of this century has hardly paved the way for despotism.
Nor is there a clear connection between pluralism and any inevitable disregard for the value of human life. It seems quite possible that a society lacking the Pope's "objective moral order" could still protect an unborn child's right to life.
Still, I don't know many people who aren't disoriented by the increasing reach of technology, the craven tone of popular culture and the economic insecurity of our achievement-driven society. I am not eager to find out how much more abortion or uncurbed consumer appetite American society can tolerate.
I wish the Pope were more persuasive, that he were more American. What he has to say about human solidarity and what the well-off owe the underpriveliged needs saying, especially in a nation of driven individualists. Yet his moral certitude spooks the baptized and unbaptized alike, for it seems to deny the moral ambiguity that is inherent in a pluralistic society, the conflicting ideas of right and wrong that come from so many voices.
We need a variety of moral authorities -- the family, the state, religion -- to make our way through this ambiguous moral terrain. To take its rightful place among these voices, Catholicism must accept the fact that sexual and moral pluralism is inseparable from the democratic freedoms it otherwise celebrates.
Labeling American society a "culture of death" captures one truth, but ignores many others. In modern democracy, error must retain certain inviolable rights, so that greater error cannot get the upper hand.
Stripped of its absolutist accent, the message of John Paul II might obtain some significant resonance in the country he called an "extraordinary human epic" this week. To a remarkable extent, his speech at the United Nations on Thursday, in which he celebrated the relationship between freedom and pluralism, did just that.
In the emerging struggle against the spiritually stultifying effects of technological society, American democracy and Catholicism need to join forces. The continuing tragedy is that they so often conspire to excommunicate each other.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); RELIGION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); ABORTION (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (73%); CORRUPTION (70%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: BAUMANN, PAUL; POPE (JOHN PAUL II) POPE JOHN PAUL II (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1995



192 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: More Taxi Medallions

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I enjoyed Peter Passell's column on New York City taxis (Economic Scene, Oct. 5). If the problems with the city's taxis (poor service, suppressed wages) can be attributed to artificially limited supply, the solution is to raise the number of medallions. 
 This would be resisted by those who own medallions. To overcome that resistance, while doubling the supply, every current owner of a medallion could be given another medallion with the stipulation that it must be put in use or sold.
This process can be repeated every year until the supply of medallions is effectively uncontrolled. Current medallion owners would receive fair value for their investment, and the monopoly on medallions would end.
 
OLIVER KARLIN
New York, Oct. 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; KARLIN, OLIVER PETER PASSELL (69%); OLIVER KARLIN NEW YORK (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1995



193 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1799 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Seek Early Earful To Avoid a Rejection at Polls

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8

 BODY:
The 30-second television commercial opens with a bleak scene of a lonely Senator Bob Dole trudging through the snows of New Hampshire in 1988 -- a pointed reminder of how he lost the crucial primary there after refusing to sign a pledge against new taxes.
As haunting music plays, an announcer warns: "New Hampshire rejected Bob Dole because we didn't trust him on taxes. We were right." Then come examples intended to tag Mr. Dole as a big taxer. 
 This attack advertisement was not produced by any of Mr. Dole's rivals for the Republican Presidential nomination but by his own campaign. As Mr. Dole braces for the inevitable televised onslaught from his opponents, his campaign decided the best way to prepare itself was by creating the roughest advertisements imaginable against the Senator. So Mr. Dole's media advisers dreamed up slick sample ads -- complete with slogans, background music and narration -- like those they expect from Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, former Gov. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee and Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative commentator.
Two weeks ago, the campaign showed these test commercials -- which, of course, will never actually make it on television -- to four small groups of Republicans in Manchester, N.H., and in Nashua, N.H., who said they will vote in the state's primary. The aim was to gauge potential voters' responses and use them to create more test advertisements answering the attacks.
It has been nearly two decades since political operatives learned that "focus groups" of voters can be as effective in determining how to peddle candidates as they are in peddling bars of soap. They played an integral role in helping Bill Clinton in 1992 as he wended his way through accusations of womanizing and draft dodging, and his advisers have consulted them ever since. His advisers are already using them for the 1996 campaign.
But most striking this year is that the major Republican campaigns are assembling focus groups much earlier than in the past. Some have become so reliant on them that they say they do not dare broadcast a commercial without testing it first.
These groups' discussions can run from policy minutiae to, well, mammals. The Dole campaign recently asked focus groups to name the animals the candidates reminded them of. According to an internal Dole campaign memorandum, the most popular descriptions of Mr. Gramm were "weasels, foxes, hyenas, ferrets," though some gave him positive points for being tenacious by calling him "bulldog" and "tortoise." The memorandum, which was made available by the Dole campaign, said Mr. Buchanan was likened to "mostly tough, smaller and combative animals" like "pit bulls, badgers, wolverines."
It found that Mr. Dole was described at times as a tenacious and even "a bit plodding survivor" like a "mule, draft horse, tortoise, German shephard." Some participants offered "elephant," given Mr. Dole's long service to Republicans. Others, saying he was "too quick to compromise," suggested "chameleon, kangaroo, zebra."
These groups do not always provide a rosy picture of how a candidate comes across. In an internal memorandum, Linda DiVall, Mr. Gramm's pollster, noted that the Senator did not make a good first impression with some voters in New Hampshire who looked at a sample Gramm commercial and video. "Thank God for the mute button," one man said. One woman observed, "Has a voice you don't want to listen to." There also were positive remarks, of course, like the man who said, "If anyone can accomplish balanced budget goal, he can."
For Republicans this year, the obvious target is Mr. Dole. Since he is far ahead in the polls, his competitors are asking focus groups to dissect his public appearances. They are hoping for unexpected insights that might help them topple the Senator.
All the while, the campaigns are seeking ways to fine-tune their own messages. Mr. Dole's aides, for example, said they learned through focus groups how best to cut the legislative jargon from the majority leader's speeches.
"The way we have used focus groups is to explore reactions that you can't measure in surveys, such as reactions to the tone and style of a candidate's delivery," said Whit Ayres, Mr. Alexander's pollster. He said Mr. Alexander presents himself as an "outsider versus an insider" more often than "Governor versus Senator" because that contrast did not test as well in focus groups.
But Mr. Ayres and other pollsters say it would be a mistake to be guided too much by the sometimes scattered observations from focus groups. "Focus groups are useful but are frequently overused," said Mark Penn, one of Mr. Clinton's chief pollsters. "They're too easily pointed in one direction or another and should be used for base exploratory work, not for drawing as many conclusions as I see people using them for."
According to Ms. DiVall's memorandum, Mr. Gramm's focus groups underscored some of the Senator's weaknesses in New Hampshire, where the first primary is tentatively set for Feb. 20.
"Knowledge void on Gramm is still immense," Ms. DiVall wrote in the memorandum dated Sept. 28, which was obtained by The New York Times from a rival campaign. "Nobody knew anything about him. Women were totally confused on his position on affirmative action and abortion." While she found that the groups did not cite "a mean-spirited dimension" of his personality, they had other reservations, including: "have no knowledge of him," "too concerned with process over issue" and "revelations in Packwood diaries raise concern about his ethics and integrity."
Ms. DiVall also said that people raised questions about the Senator's wife, Wendy. In the past, rival campaigns have accused the Senator of playing down his wife because she is Korean-American.
"Women had a curiosity about Wendy in the 60-second spot, and some felt Gramm was hiding her." Ms. DiVall wrote. "The video was received positively as they got to know more about her." She also recommended dropping a clip from an ad showing Mr. Gramm with the actor Charlton Heston, saying, "Charlton Heston no longer is quite the big pull he used to be."
On the plus side, Ms. DiVall found that "the primary controversy," -- in which Mr. Gramm has been accused of not fighting to keep New Hampshire's position as the state with the first primary -- "was not brought up by a single individual."
The impact of focus groups can already be seen in the choice of issues candidates are emphasizing. "The trade issue with men is a big plus for Buchanan," Ms. DiVall advised. "At some point, we will have to engage him on this issue, but not until greater definition has been provided of Gramm."
The memorandum also found that viewers were not impressed with a video that mentioned that Mr. Gramm tied Mr. Dole in a straw poll in Iowa in August. "Iowa straw poll is meaningless -- it was bought," according to a response recorded by Ms. DiVall.
Asked today about her memorandum, Ms. Divall said, "It's meant for our internal strategy team, not for public distribution." But she emphasized the positive findings, saying, "We've got a world of potential to grow, and with Senator Dole it's the opposite. He's got a tenuous lead due to familiarity and party loyalty."
The three Republican campaigns using focus groups most extensively -- Mr. Dole, Mr. Gramm and Mr. Alexander -- allowed a reporter to view videotapes of their groups. While the campaigns selected sessions that put their candidates in the best light, the access gave an unusual inside look at how these groups function.
Scott Reed, Mr. Dole's campaign manager, agreed to show a reporter the test advertisements the campaign's media adviser, Stuart Stevens, created against its own candidate to demonstrate that the Senator could endure the roughest televised assaults on his most vulnerable issues. The voters signaled their responses by turning dials on hand-held electronic meters. Mr. Reed showed the results by superimposing these ratings on the advertisement in a graphic display like the chart of a heart beat. The results showed that Mr. Dole's support did not fall appreciably.
"We've thrown the kitchen sink at Dole and none of it sticks," Mr. Reed asserted. "Voters respect his character and stability and trust his leadership skills. It's pathetic that our opponents' strategy is totally based on Dole slipping."
But advisers to Mr. Gramm and Mr. Alexander counter that their focus groups show that Mr. Dole is vulnerable because, at age 72, he is older than the other candidates, and because he is prone to compromises.
Focus group participants are selected by independent agencies. They are paid to watch videotapes of candidates and, prompted by a moderator, offer their opinions about everything from the candidates' messages to their clothes. They are not told which campaign is sponsoring the focus group.
"I hate to be prejudiced one way or another, but I think he's too old," one woman said of Mr. Dole at an Alexander focus group of eight people sitting around a rectangular table in New Hampshire.
A woman across the table agreed, saying, "You see someone going in that office and two years later they look terrible, Clinton looks awful."
At a focus group organized by the Gramm campaign in Ankeny, Iowa, outside Des Moines, four women and five men who identified themselves as devout conservatives sipped cans of soda and ate potato chips as they offered mixed responses about Mr. Dole's personality.
"He does project himself well," one woman said. "I just don't like him personally. He's a mean-spirited person; kind of a nasty guy."
An older man, recalling Mr. Dole's 1976 campaign with Gerald Ford, chimed in at the other side of the table, "He was a hatchet man when he ran for Vice President."
When Ms. DiVall, who was the moderator of the group, asked whether Mr. Dole or Mr. Gramm "comes across with the strongest sense of conviction," almost everyone picked Mr. Gramm.
But when she asked, "Which one looks more Presidential?" the consensus was Mr. Dole.
One participant said that the video clips of Mr. Dole talking about his service in World War II were far more genuine than those of him weighing in on the budget. "When Dole was up there talking about his experience in the service, he was talking from his heart at that time," the man said. "You could tell the compassion." He added that Mr. Dole "doesn't always do that the other times."
One woman observed what Mr. Gramm often says about himself: He does not make a great first impression. "First impression isn't real good, but the more I look at him the more I like him," she said. "I wish he had a little bit more charisma just because there are people who are just going to look at the face on the t.v. and make their mind up at that point."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sen. Phil Gramm of Texas made a bad impression with focus groups, but some liked his stand on issues. (Associated Press) (pg. A11)
; Chart: 'Testing the Waters' Observations by focus groups in New Hampshire to a test television commercial produced by Senator Phil Gramm's campaign. The largely biographical advertisement, is similar to one now being broadcast by the campaign in New Hampshire. The observations were recorded by Mr. Gramm's pollster, Linda Davill.
 
QUESTION: What is your first imperssion?
RESPONSE: Women -- Changing political parties (i.e. will not compromise; stands up for what he believes in).
Didn't say anything bad about anyone else.
Family guy.
Music was disrupting, melancholy; sounded too mush-mouthed; put people to sleep.
RESPONSE: Men -- Folksy style, while conventional wisdom is opposite.
Showed him in a different light than what I know of him.
Really said nothing. If I'm elected, I will do this. Didn't answer Q&A.
He's pompous. Sounded like Bill Clinton Story.
Poverty background. Not afraid to oppose President.
Marketing job, nothing more.
 
QUESTION: What do you think is the main message?
RESPONSE: Women -- Regular guy.
Can balance budget/strong economic background.
Independent.
Stands up for his beliefs.
Presented a lot of information.
Interest in his wife. How come he never mentioned her?
RESPONSE: Men -- Please vote for me.
I really am human.
 
QUESTION: Anything new or different you learned?
RESPONSE: Women -- Writing Ronald Reagan budget (negative).
Party switching.
Agree with Bill Clinton health plan (numerous mentions).
RESPONSE: Men -- No.
Doesn't set him apart.
Thank God for the mute button.
(Source: Memorandum dated Sept. 28, 1995 by Ms. DiVall) (pg. A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SMN1 (FRA) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (58%); NASHUA, NH, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SENATOR ENTERTAINMENT AG (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (58%); NASHUA, NH, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; TELEVISION; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FOCUS GROUPS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); MAMMALS (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (75%); DOGS (75%); ADVERTISING COPY TESTING (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MUSIC (72%); HORSES (64%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB (SEN); GRAMM, PHIL (SEN); BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (90%); PHIL GRAMM (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1995



194 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Haves and Have-Nots Revisited

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Oct. 7

 BODY:
Visitors can hardly miss the theme of Telecom 95. The slogan "Connect!" appears on everything from giant placards to palm-sized telephone calling cards at the quadrenniel meeting of the international telecommunications industry, which continues through Wednesday. But in the view of some skeptics, a better slogan might have been "disconnect."
Although more than 50 countries constructed elaborate national pavilions to illustrate the explosive growth of their telecommunications industries, the poorest nations of the world are clearly not sharing in the wealth. According to a study by the International Telecommunication Union, which sponsors the convention, the poorest 48 countries are falling even further behind developed nations in the growth of telecommunications infrastructure. 
 The hard facts do not invalidate the central theme of Telecom 95 -- that digital technology is revolutionizing telecommunications and erasing the boundaries that separate the telephone, computer and media industries. But the revolution's inequality does take some of the shine off a business that has celebrated itself here as both a one-stop shop for the Information Age and a force for positive political change in the world.
"The present reality is that the technology gap between developed and developing nations is actually widening," said Nelson Mandela, the President of South Africa, who spoke at the gathering's opening ceremony. "Most of the world has no experience of what readily accessible communications can do for society and the economy."
Even the most enthusiastic of industry executives acknowledged that the world could find itself divided into telecom "haves" and "have-nots." Michael T. Masin, vice chairman of the GTE Corporation, described telecommunications in a speech on Thursday as a "liberation technology." But he conceded that some major regions of the world, notably Africa, had not benefited from its emancipating influence.
In fact, the rate of growth of telephone lines in African countries like Chad, Zaire and Niger, badly lags behind the growth even in other developing countries like China, Egypt and India. The I.T.U., an agency of the United Nations, has organized a new development fund called Worldtel that aims to help poor countries build rudimentary telephone networks.
Pekka Tarjanne, the Secretary General of the I.T.U., said Worldtel hoped to raise $500 million from public and private sources in the next year. "These are countries that need help to pull themselves out of their misery," he said.
But some countries may be beyond help, at least for now. Bert de Graeve, a vice president of Alcatel Trade International, a division of Alcatel-Alsthom, the French telecom giant, which specializes in bringing phone service to developing countries, said that companies had little incentive to invest in Africa because of political instability on much of the continent and a dearth of investors willing to share the risk of building networks there.
In the telephone-rich economies of Western Europe and the United States, there are no lack of companies vying to offer services -- particularly to high-volume business customers. The current craze is the multinational alliance: a group of companies that pool their communications networks, marketing and sales forces to offer one set of services to customers across several geographic markets.
MCI Communications and BT (the former British Telecommunications) promoted their joint venture, called Concert. The Sprint Corporation and its two European partners, France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom, sought to allay fears that government regulators would spike their proposed venture, Phoenix. And AT&T tried to explain its World Partners venture, a loose federation of telephone companies from Europe and Asia.
But while these alliances look and sound formidable, customers who do business with them are considerably less enchanted.
"Most alliances are almost worthless," said Arthur F. Cipolla, the director of telecommunications and information security at Motorola. He said the existing alliances have been consistently unable to provide his company with reliable, affordable phone service outside major financial centers like London and Frankfurt.
Mr. Cipolla and his counterparts at nearly two dozen multinational corporations have formed a consortium to voice their opinions to major phone companies. Among their chief goals: Persuading the big alliances that it is more important to offer dependable phone service in more remote locations like Nairobi, Kenya, or Kiev, Ukraine, than it is to offer high-speed data-transmission services between New York and London.
"Anyone can do that," Mr. Cipolla said. The trick, he said, is getting a good phone line to Nairobi.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (51%); 

COUNTRY: AFRICA (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); EGYPT (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NIGER (79%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CHAD (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); ALCATEL TRADE INTERNATIONAL (51%); INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA (SWITZERLAND); AFRICA; AFRICA (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); EGYPT (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NIGER (79%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CHAD (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS TELECOMMUNICATIONS (95%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (73%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK ANN LIVERMORE (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1995



195 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Proposed Insurance Rules On H.I.V. Set Off Uproar

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 7

 BODY:
The New Jersey Insurance Department has provoked an uproar among medical experts and state civil libertarians by quietly proposing rules that would allow health insurers to screen new applicants for the AIDS virus and to reject those whose tests are positive or who refuse to be tested.
As the administrative proposal came to light, the State Medical Society and civil rights advocates protested that the policy could allow insurers to circumvent existing Federal and state laws that forbid insurers to deny coverage to applicants who have AIDS virus, H.I.V. 
 The Insurance Department said the proposed rules would apply only to new applicants to group health programs, the kind offered by large employers. It said that people enrolled in programs for fewer than 50 employees would not be affected, citing a state law prohibiting the use of H.I.V. testing for that category. Critics of the proposals said that state and Federal laws ban H.I.V. testing for all medical coverage, setting the stage for a contest over what the law says and means.
"It is almost incredible that they did this," said Neil Weisfeld, deputy executive director of the New Jersey Medical Society. "All of us in the field of health care are shocked that the Department of Insurance went ahead with this proposal without consulting, so far as we can tell, a single health care provider in the state."
The proposed rules were published without announcement in the Oct. 2 issue of The New Jersey Register, the state's rule-making publication. A 30-day comment period expires on Nov. 1.
Ed Martone, director of the New Jersey branch of the American Civil Liberties Union, said the proposed change would diminish the civil rights of people who have AIDS.
"AIDS was added to the handicapped section of the civil rights law 10 years ago, to lower the real or perceived barriers for people with this condition," Mr. Martone said. "This proposed rule brings us back to where we were 10 years ago in terms of health insurance."
The proposed rule changes were authorized by Andrew J. Karpinski, the Insurance Commissioner who recently resigned under criticism that he had concealed what was viewed as a conflict of interest with an insurance firm he owned before becoming Commissioner.
"The proposed rules apply to all life and health insurers transacting business in this state," the proposal reads in part. "Insurers may ask whether the applicant has tested positively for H.I.V. infection and/or experienced any of a list of symptoms including symptoms of H.I.V. infection."
If a series of tests for H.I.V. are positive, "then the insurer may decline coverage for the applicant," the proposal says. At a later point, it adds, "If an applicant refuses to submit to an initial or repeat screening of the immunoblot test" -- an H.I.V. test regimen -- "then the insurer may decline coverage."
The Insurance Department appeared to have been caught off guard by the strong criticism of the proposed rule changes. The department maintains that the changes were made to comply with new reporting rules enacted by the Legislature earlier this year, as well as to assure that health insurance applicants are given the fairest, most up-to-date test for the presence of H.I.V. They pointed out that the department would take public comment on the proposed changes until Nov. 1, after which they could become law without legislative action.
Insurance Department officials said a 1986 department policy banning AIDS and H.I.V. testing for health insurance did not have the force of law. The new rules are silent on the question of the Americans With Disabilities Act, whose ban on discrimination against H.I.V.-infected people has been interpreted to forbid screening health insurance applicants for H.I.V.
The department acknowledged that state law forbids AIDS screening for individual health insurance applicants as well as for members of company policies covering up to 49 people, but said that the large group insurers handling bigger corporate accounts were allowed to screen for the immunodeficiency virus.
"Since they already do it, these rules require that they do it in a fair manner and that they use the latest science," said Kathleen Bird, a department spokeswoman. In any case, Ms. Bird said, it is unlikely that a group carrier would screen all applicants for coverage since it would be "economically unfeasible" to do so.
Marc Buro, the Insurance Department's director of legislative affairs, made much the same point. "Current law," he said, "does not empower the Insurance Department with the ability to stop insurance companies from making underwriting decisions based on health status."
But Mr. Weisfeld of the State Medical Society strongly disputed this assertion.
"Health insurers do not test," he said emphatically. "Life insurers test, but when you go in for health insurance, the company does not say, 'O.K., go in for a physical, and on the basis of our tests, we'll decide whether or not to insure you.' That does not happen, and one would hope that the State Insurance Department were aware of this."
Mr. Weisfeld said that allowing group health insurers, the kind that cover most workers, to screen out people with H.I.V. and AIDS would only increase medical expenses down the road, both because sick people without insurance tend to aggravate their condition, and so end up costing more to treat, and because ultimately they are likely to become dependent on publicly financed Medicaid insurance.
"I don't know if they did their legal reserch, but I know they didn't do their policy research," he said, "and I also know they didn't do their financial research, because if you bring people in for treatment earlier, you get a lower bill than if you bring them in late."
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman has so far declined to comment on the issue, saying she needs time to study the facts. A senior member of her administration, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the spirit behind the proposed rule changes was nothing less than a step toward forcing individuals to face the consequences of behavior that exposes them to AIDS.
"There is a body of opinion out there that AIDS is a behaviorally based illness," the official said. "It is preventable to the extent that if you do not engage in certain conduct, you will not be at risk for this condition. I think that opinion is an element in the mix here." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); HEALTH INSURANCE; TESTS AND TESTING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH AIDS & HIV (94%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (90%); INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); VIRUSES (77%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1995



196 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: With Few Efforts at Tracking, Many Fugitives Avoid Trial

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN 

DATELINE: FREEHOLD, N.J.

 BODY:
Robert Fuhr's voice choked when he remembered the day his 11-year-old daughter accused her stepfather of molesting her.
"If I had seen him then, I would have blown him away," Mr. Fuhr said. 
 But the stepfather never appeared for his trial here, and for the past 10 years Mr. Fuhr has tried to get the Monmouth County authorities to track him down. It has been particularly frustrating, because for much of the last decade the stepfather, Richard A. Cano, has been living with Mr. Fuhr's ex-wife in Martin County, Fla.
And although Mr. Fuhr gave Monmouth County authorities Mr. Cano's address in Florida, prosecutors say budget constraints, a shortage of personnel and missing information have prevented his arrest.
"I might as well have told them to look in the Sea of Tranquillity on the Moon," Mr. Fuhr said. "This is a failure of the entire system."
Every year, several thousand New Jersey criminal trials are suspended because defendants fail to appear. There are almost as many fugitives as there are inmates serving time in New Jersey prisons.
Prosecutors in Monmouth County say they sympathize with Mr. Fuhr, but insist they do not have the people to track down every defendant who does not appear for trial. It can be especially difficult to find those who flee to other states, where the authorities depend on local police departments to catch the fugitives, usually after an arrest for other offenses or a traffic stop.
"In many cases, there is no downside to becoming a fugitive," said Alton Kenny, Monmouth County's first deputy prosecutor.
Despite efforts by New Jersey court officials to address the fugitive problem, the number has remained steady in recent years at around 25,000, compared with the 25,699 inmates in state prisons.
In 1992, Chief Justice Robert N. Wilentz of State Supreme Court appointed a committee to investigate why the number of fugitives had been increasing steadily since the early 1980's. The committee estimated that about 60 percent of fugitives fled to avoid prosecution. The remaining 40 percent fail to appear in court because of their own negligence or because of administrative problems.
Robert Seidenstein, the spokesman for the Supreme Court, said that as a result of the committee's work, the courts have improved administrative procedures for record-keeping and scheduling. Since 1992 the number of fugitive cases has leveled off, he said.
But he said that only increased enforcement would significantly reduce the number of fugitives.
"Ultimately the solution rests in the resources available for investigation and apprehension," Mr. Seidenstein said.
But prosecutors and court officials in New Jersey maintain they are overburdened by a vast increase in criminal trials related to drug enforcement efforts, and John Kip Cornwell, an associate professor at Seton Hall Law School, said their counterparts around the nation face a similar problem. "The issue boils down to a lack of resources," he said.
Professor Cornwell said public pressure had led law enforcement to focus at times on certain classes of fugitives, like fathers who had failed to make child support payments, or on particularly dangerous criminals. But he said most police departments had little time to devote to searching for interstate fugitives.
"It is basically an economic reality," he said.
In the case of New Jersey v. Cano, charges were filed after 11-year-old Brandi Fuhr told summer camp counselors in August 1985 that her stepfather had sexually abused her over a five-year period in Florida, where she had been living with her mother, and in New Jersey. Mr. Fuhr, who had joint custody of Brandi at the time, immediately contacted the police in Monmouth County.
"In this case, with the young lady present here in New Jersey, we wanted to present the case to the grand jury as soon as possible," said Mr. Kenny, the first deputy prosecutor.
A warrant was issued for Mr. Cano in New Jersey. But because he had never been arrested and processed by the police, the authorities did not have fingerprints or a photograph to identify him. Without these identifying details, the prosecutors said they could not send a warrant over the F.B.I.'s national computer network.
So, even though Mr. Fuhr told Monmouth County prosecutors that Mr. Cano was living in Martin County, the authorities there were not alerted. Prosecutors said that even if an interstate warrant had been issued, the police in Florida would not have been able to arrest Mr. Cano without fingerprints or a photograph to identify him.
"Without identifiers to put into the system, no matter how many times they give them an address, it is not going to make any difference," said Jessica Oppenheim, the deputy attorney general who reviews prosecutors' performance for the New Jersey Attorney General's office.
Prosecutors acknowledge that investigators could have made a greater effort to identify Mr. Cano. As Mr. Fuhr has pointed out, investigators might have obtained his fingerprints from his military records. They also might have obtained a photograph from his former employer, a New Jersey I.B.M. plant, or from an acquaintance.
But prosecutors said the office did not have the investigators to chase all the people who flee from criminal charges. They often face the difficult decision of suspending a search because a more pressing case demands the available resources.
"You have to prioritize on who you are going to look for," Mr. Kenny said. "We take this case seriously. But is this case going to be different than somebody who is suspected to be a serial rapist, a child sexual murderer? Yes."
Even in cases where the authorities have easy access to fingerprints or photographs, prosecutors rely on local police departments to track fugitives, Mr. Kenny said.
"It happens all the time," he said. "You are going to make the attempt. You are going to ask the local department to check the address. They go, he is not home. The number of checks is dependent on them."
"This is a serious crime," he said, referring to Mr. Fuhr's case. "I am not going to say it is not. But in this circumstance, that is realistically the best that is going to happen."
Mr. Fuhr, who was awarded sole custody after the charges were brought against Mr. Cano, said he prodded prosecutors for about two years after the indictment, in September 1985; he was unaware that the case had been declared inactive by the County Prosecutor's office by December of the same year. After the first few years, Mr. Fuhr said, he tried to put the matter behind him.
In late 1994, as part of a periodic review of old cases, the Monmouth County Prosecutor's office contacted the Fuhrs to ask whether they had any additional information about the case. Brandi Fuhr, who had recontacted her mother several years before, told prosecutors that Mr. Cano had been arrested for driving with a suspended license in Florida.
Prosecutors said they could use photographs from the driving arrest to fill in the missing information on Mr. Cano's warrant. They told Brandi Fuhr, now 21 years old and a college student in Connecticut, that they would move ahead with the case if she still wanted to testify. Miss Fuhr said prosecutors had handled the case "like it was shoved under somebody's desk," but she said she wanted Mr. Cano arrested.
"It is awful," Miss Fuhr said. "I hate it. It has stirred up my life again."
Martin County sheriff's investigators say they have tried unsuccessfully to arrest Mr. Cano several times in the last six months. Although they are continuing their search, they now believe he has fled to another part of Florida.
Both Mr. Fuhr and his daughter said Mr. Cano might have gone underground after the sheriff's unsuccessful attempt to find him. Mr. Cano did not return several telephone calls to his wife's Martin County address.
The Fuhrs said they were glad the police had taken up the case again, but they have little confidence that the authorities will ever catch Mr. Cano.
"I can't wait to sit in court and see his face," Miss Fuhr said. "I still have dreams and nightmares about it. It won't be over for me until he is in jail."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many New Jersey criminal trials are suspended because defendants fail to appear. For a decade, the Monmouth County authorities have failed to arrest Richard A. Cano, who is accused of molesting his stepdaughter, Brandi Fuhr, above with her father, Robert. Mr. Cano lives in Florida. (Carl David Labianca for The New York Times) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (93%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (93%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; SEX CRIMES; COURTS; EXTRADITION; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC STEPPARENTS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); ARRESTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); LAWYERS (73%); PRISONS (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOHN; FUHR, ROBERT; CANO, RICHARD A ROBERT FUHR (95%); RICHARD A CANO (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1995



197 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: PULSE;
New Homes

 BODY:
After rising steadily since 1991, single-family housing starts and sales in the New York metropolitan region are expected to decline this year. The slowing of the market comes despite the current low mortgage rates. The average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage in the New York region was 7.82 percent on Sept. 22, down from a high of 9.39. percent in December of last year. Experts attribute the stagnant housing market to the general slowing of the economy in the area, particularly the lack of new jobs.

GRAPHIC: Graphs show the number of new single-family homes and mortgage rates from '87 to '95 (Source: Commerce Department, HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); MORTGAGE RATES (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); CITIES (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1995



198 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Balance the Power

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: BAKERSFIELD, Calif.

 BODY:
Peace will not come to the Balkans as a result of inserting outside peacekeepers. Peace will come only when Serbs, Croats and Muslims strike a balance of power that makes aggression too costly.
After being jerked around for more than two years by the British and French, President Clinton was forced by Congress to exert NATO leadership. Primarily as a result of the belated application of air power against Serbian forces, the tide of war turned, making possible a serious cease-fire. 
 Now the U.S. President is being jerked around again. Last year, our European allies elicited a promise from him to put in 25,000 American ground troops to police a peace agreement.
But we have since learned that the only time progress was made in Bosnia was after peacekeepers were taken out. Putting outside troops in is a step backward into the morass that existed before our air strikes.
Clintonites say he's "given our word." But can a President without public debate or Congressional support, and with no emergency, commit substantial U.S. forces to open-ended police duty anywhere?
No. Secretary of State Christopher's claim that to withhold U.S. ground troops would mean "the end of NATO" is rhetorical blackmail.
I am a card-carrying interventionist. All the wrong people -- Pat Buchanan and the military "experts" who mistakenly foresaw disaster in using force to stop Saddam Hussein -- are my strange bedfellows in opposing the insertion of outside troops today. Clinton is already denouncing all Americans who denounce his wrongheaded strategy as "isolationists."
Clinton's model is Haiti. He was right to use force to build democracy there: it stopped an invasion of refugees. But Bosnia ain't Haiti.
Our First Armored Division in Europe was designed and equipped to take on a Soviet tank offensive, not to patrol mountain borders of a Bosnia we deliberately keep weak. Nor is Bosnia Berlin, to be defended by great powers in sectors, with Tuzla the new Checkpoint Charlie.
Bosnia already has 120,000 troops, all the troops it needs today to defend its whittled-down borders. They are mainly Bosnian Muslims, with some indigenous Croats. What those troops need is defensive arms, the training to use those arms, and the sustained air cover to give them the time to get that training.
Here's where Clinton has been snookered again by Europeans who want no Muslim state on their Continent. They keep claiming that lifting the embargo on arms for Bosnian self-defense would prolong the war.
Time has demonstrated how mistaken that defeatist European story is. One-sided arming led to war; only by equipping Muslim troops with comparable firepower can a balance be struck that could lead to peace.
The Serbs attacked because they thought they could conquer; they will not attack again if they think they will be beaten back. Nor will a well-armed Bosnia become irredentist if Muslims know that Western air power would then be turned against them.
What's a workable interventionist strategy for Congress to consider?
1. NATO's air arm, primarily American, should maintain control of the skies over the original Bosnia, ready to retaliate disproportionately to violations of the peace agreement. Air power was underrated in warmaking; let's not underrate it in peacekeeping.
2. NATO nations and Russia should manipulate economic sanctions and incentives to induce Serbia and Croatia to cooperate with what's left of Bosnia.
3. The arms embargo keeping Bosnia weak should be lifted forthwith. Mr. Clinton should lead the West to join nations like Pakistan, Turkey and Saudi Arabia to finance purchase of antitank, antiaircraft and intelligence-communications equipment.
4. A NATO team, including Americans, should set up training centers in Croatia to ready Bosnian troops for self-defense.
An imbalance of power in the Balkans always leads to war. Defense Secretary Perry's expressed expectation that Serbs will give up their arms to enable Muslims to achieve a balance of power is ludicrous.
The Congress should restrain the President from blundering into Bosnia's occupation. Instead, we should use the weapon that works -- the credible threat of harsh punishment from the air -- to enforce a peace among military equals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); EUROPE (93%); CROATIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); SERBIA (92%); HAITI (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); EUROPE (93%); CROATIA (93%); FRANCE (92%); SERBIA (92%); HAITI (92%); GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE ARMED FORCES (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); REFUGEES (71%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); BORDER CONTROL (67%); ARMS EMBARGOES (60%); POLICE FORCES (57%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1995



199 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

A Scandal Costs Daiwa Its Chairman and President
The president of Daiwa Bank, Akira Fujita, resigned his post early today to take responsibility for a $1.1 billion bond trading scandal. And the company's chairman, Sumio Abekawa, will leave his post by March. 
 Daiwa has been the center of international attention since Sept. 25, when the bank said Toshihide Iguchi, a bond trader, had covered up $1.1 billion in bad trades by forging as many as 30,000 trade slips. Analysts said the resignations were expected, given the nature and size of the losses. [Page D7.]
 
A Trade Pact's Trade-Off
When Mexico's President, Ernesto Zedillo, comes to Washington tomorrow, the North American Free Trade Agreement will weigh heavily on his talks with President Clinton, whose economists had once said it would create 170,000 jobs in its first year. That has not happened, in part because of the severe recession in Mexico. Now, many businessmen and economists say, the way to assess the trade pact is by looking at corporate efficiency, not job creation. [A1.]
 
A Fatter Reserve for Disasters
World finance ministers meeting in Washington agreed on the creation of a $50 billion special fund to halt financial hemorrhaging in disasters like the one that overtook Mexico almost a year ago. [D2.]
 
Figuring Out What Won't Hurt
With hundreds of thousands of workers afflicted with repetitive strain injuries, those who seek user-friendly furniture and computer accessories are faced with a dizzying assortment of ergonomic products. But there is no consensus on what is "ergonomically correct." [D3.]
 
Italy Investigating Company Losses
Financial investigators raided one of Italy's powerful industrial holding companies, Gemina S.p.A., which is controlled by Fiat's Agnelli family, in the wake of unexpected losses. The investigators are looking into the possibility of balance-sheet fraud. [D2.]
 
A Disparity in Phone Development
More than 50 countries built elaborate pavilions at Telecom 95 to illustrate the growth of their telecommunications industries, but the world's poorest nations are not sharing in the wealth. According to one study, the 48 poorest countries are falling further behind in telecom munications growth. News analysis. [D4.]

Raising On-Line Ethical Questions
A newsletter report that included information from the Internet without crediting the original researchers has raised issues of copyright and ethics. [D3.]
 
Arguing About Added Programming
A group of lobbyists got what they wanted from the pending CBS deal -- more educational programming for children -- but their success has provoked an outcry. Lawrie Mifflin: Television. [D5.]
 
A Legal Dispute on Court Cases
While law librarians struggle to organize court opinions electronically and put them on the Internet, small publishers are marketing data bases and CD-ROM's that offer legal reference materials. But electronic and on-line services are being outgunned by the company that dominates the print market. [D5.]
 
Tangled Up In the Web
Hollywood, never shy about transforming social phenomena into big-screen extravaganzas, has cast its eye on the World Wide Web and its millions of users. But technological realism has sometimes been lost. [D5.]
 
On Promoting and Presidents
Assessments of Presidential politics ran through the deliberations of the 86th annual meeting and business conference of the Association of National Advertisers. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]
 
Patent Holder Gains Ground
International Gift Express is advancing in its claim that its patent covers the sale of digital information like music and software over computers. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GEM (BIT) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ITALY (68%); 

COMPANY: GENERALE MOBILIARE INTERESSENZE AZIONARIE SPA (65%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ITALY (68%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); BONDS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ETHICS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (88%); ERGONOMICS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LIBRARIANS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); JOB CREATION (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (69%); OFFICE DESIGN (64%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (63%); LAW LIBRARIES (60%); COPYRIGHT (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1995



200 of 693 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Mexico Rush Talks On Tire and Wine Disputes

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 8

 BODY:
In a rush of last-minute talks, United States and Mexican negotiators are trying to reach progress on key trade disputes under the North American Free Trade Agreement, which American officials were determined to resolve before President Clinton meets Mexico's President this week.
The disputes involve the sale of American wines and tires in Mexico and the operations of door-to-door package delivery companies, mainly United Parcel Service. American officials urged Mexico to settle them so President Clinton would not have to confront President Ernesto Zedillo with them when they meet on Tuesday in Washington. 
 In talks in Washington late last week negotiators made headway on a deal that would make it easier for American tire makers to sell in Mexico, officials of both countries said.
But Mexico did not budge from its longstanding opposition to cutting tariffs on American wines.
American officials have made it no secret that resolving the wine and tire disputes is part of President Clinton's re-election calculus. Most hurt by Mexico's high tariffs are wine producers in California, a $9 billion industry in a pivotal state in Presidential voting. The company worst hit by Mexico's tire regulations is Cooper Tire and Rubber Company, which has its headquarters in Ohio and also employs about 2,000 people in a plant in Texarkana, in the President's home state of Arkansas.
But a crushing recession in Mexico, coupled with stiff resistance from Mexican industries, has made the Government here reluctant to open its markets further. An American official said the Administration was "a little surprised" at Mexico's inflexibility, especially after President Clinton provided $12.5 billion in loans this year to save the Government from financial collapse.
American wine makers now pay 16 percent tariffs on sales in Mexico. Under the North American trade accord, wine duties are scheduled to drop to zero over 10 years. But wines from Chile, a major competitor, will enter Mexico duty-free beginning next year under a separate trade pact.
To win votes for the North American accord in 1993, the United States trade representative, Mickey Kantor, promised the California Congressional delegation that within 120 days of passage he would get Mexico to agree to reduce the tariffs more quickly. Now two years later Mexico has refused to negotiate about wine tariffs.
As for tires, until this week Mexico insisted that American tires must carry labels in Spanish molded in the sidewall. It required American companies like Cooper Tire to have their tires inspected in the laboratories of competing companies in Mexico.
A new Mexican proposal would allow tires to be sold with stickers translating the sidewall information into Spanish. Still in dispute is whether the American companies can carry out their own inspections.
On the other issue, Mexico has refused to give permits to United Parcel Service to use trucks bigger than vans to transport packages on Mexican highways. Mexico has acknowledged that it is obliged under the trade accord to allow U.P.S. to use the big trucks, but argues that it must first issue complex new regulations for the trucking industry to define the difference between small packages and regular cargo.
U.P.S., which employs 1,400 people in Mexico, this week gave Mexico a "failing grade" on its compliance with the trade accord and warned that its operations here were so severely hampered that it might have to shut them down.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTB (NYSE) (82%); UPS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (82%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (82%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (54%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); TEXARKANA, TX, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: COOPER TIRE & RUBBER CO (82%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (54%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); TEXARKANA, TX, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; WINES; TIRES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (89%); WINERIES (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (89%); WINE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); INSPECTIONS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); RUBBER & SILICONE (76%); TIRES (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); TIRE MFG (76%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JULIA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON, ERNESTO (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1995

 
