

601 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Fall 15 Percent in Fairfield County

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
HOME sales in Fairfield County slumped dramatically in the first half of 2006, and prices barely budged, confirming a trend real estate brokers started noticing last year: the era of hot sales and double-digit-percentage price increases has faded. 
 Through June 30, 3,599 homes sold, down 15 percent from 4,246 in the same period last year. Median prices increased 4 percent, to $549,000 in 2006, up from $528,000 in 2005.
The numbers, from four Multiple Listing Service databases kept for various parts of the county, include all homes sold through agents, but do not include those sold by builders or directly by owners.
 Statewide, second-quarter numbers have not yet been compiled, said Mark Foreman, the president of the Connecticut Association of Realtors, but he expected similar results.
 ''The general consensus is that's sales have definitely slowed down,'' he said in an interview on Wednesday.
 Prices, too, have not been rising at nearly the same levels as in the recent past, he said.
 ''It's gone up, but it really hasn't changed that much,'' he said. ''In the past couple of years, you were seeing 15 to 20 percent.''
 Mike Tetreau, an agent with William Raveis Real Estate in Fairfield, who is also the president of the Greater Fairfield Board of Realtors, said there were 90 percent more homes on the market in Fairfield at the beginning of June than there were at the same time a year earlier. Buyers, he said, are waiting longer to choose a home, hoping that prices go down. That is not an unreasonable assumption, he added.
 ''It's taking longer to sell a house, and at some point I would expect prices to fall,'' he said.
 Mr. Tetreau said that social trends could also explain the downturn. Baby boomers from Connecticut have been moving to warmer climates or into smaller homes, he said, and their children have not yet begun buying bigger houses.
 But Mr. Foreman said the slowdown in home sales and flattening of prices was not evidence of the local real-estate bubble bursting. The market always goes through cycles, he said.
 ''It's impossible to sustain a boom forever,'' he said. ''It had to either slow down or end. We had probably six or seven years of growth and price appreciation.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: STAIRS AND STRIPES -- New crosswalk lines are among the improvements at the Stamford Metro-North station. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (92%); TRENDS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (79%); HOUSING BUBBLE (79%); HOME PRICES (79%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); BABY BOOMERS (69%) Housing; Sales

PERSON: Avi Salzman

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Fairfield County (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



602 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: Where's Hot, Where's Not

BYLINE: By SAMANTHA STAINBURN

 BODY:
Some states suffer student brain drain while others are magnets. Tuition, state policies and even skiing conditions factor into the collegiate popularity contest.
A new report from the Department of Education shows how many first-time students left - and how many entered - each state to study for a degree or certificate in fall 2004.

ARIZONA
Students in: 15,369 Students out: 4,195

Indications that cactus is the new ivy: 11,200 more first-time students entered Arizona than left. The appeal? Great weather, a hot economy and relatively low tuition (at the University of Arizona, $4,764 for residents, $14,970 for non). Students who reside in one of the 15 states participating in the Western Undergraduate Exchange pay only one-and- 
 a-half times the in-state tuition.

CALIFORNIA
Students in: 32,057 Students out: 23,588

''The University of California attracts the best and the brightest because it was designed for the best and the brightest,'' says David A. Longanecker, executive director of the Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education. So a large proportion of Californians stay home. But while the number pouring into the state in 2004 remained high, it was down 47 percent from 2000. The state has coped with a budget crisis and overcrowding with a series of increases in out-of-state rates, to about $25,000 a year at Davis, Santa Barbara, Santa Cruz and Los Angeles. That matches private college prices.

CONNECTICUT
Students in: 9,722 Students out: 14,580

Students in the state with the secondhighest median income -- $86,000 for a family of four, slightly less than in New Jersey -- can shop the nation for the perfect college, then load their books into their BMW's and go. What about Yale, you say? About 350 Connecticut undergraduates enrolled at Yale last school year, half as many as from New York ''Some students just want to get away from home and try to fly on their own,'' observes Edward M. Elmendorf, an official with the American Association of State Colleges and Universities.

FLORIDA
Students in: 25,525 * Students out: 12,513

The average high temperature in Gainesville in February: 70 degrees. The average number of sunny days per year: 210. Any more questions?

* The report says in-migration is 32,299; the state says that number is based on incorrect data it submitted.

ILLINOIS
Students in: 13,380 Students out: 23,841

A lack of choices drives out Illinois students, says Diane R. Dean, an assistant professor at Illinois State University in Normal and a principal investigator for a state study on student migration due out this fall. ''Everything revolves around Chicago or Champaign-Urbana.'' Also, she says, ''There is a steadily declining number of choices for the average student, because institutions below the top tier are increasing their selectivity to increase their rankings, and students aren't getting in.'' Neighboring states actively recruit Illinois's average students, and some offer tuition reciprocity, Ms. Dean says. In May, the University of Illinois at Urbana dropped a plan to let in more out-of-state students after parents and guidance counselors objected to taking places away from Illinois students.

MASSACHUSETTS
Students in: 27,300 Students out: 18,499

Iconic colleges like Harvard and Wellesley don't go out of style, making Massachusetts -- a state that educates more students in private than public colleges -- a perennial importer. But it's not the Athens of America any longer. ''We do not have as many students from other states coming to private colleges here, and it's in part because of what some of those other states are doing in keeping students home,'' says Richard Doherty, president of the state's Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. New York, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island have improved their grant aid, while Massachusetts has done the opposite, prompting its own to defect to other states, he says.

MISSISSIPPI
Students in: 5,010 Students out: 2,247

Mississippi holds onto 93 percent of its students, the highest percentage in the country, partly because the median income for a family of four is $46,570, and many can't afford to leave. Fifteen community colleges and eight public universities around the state offer rockbottom tuition ($4,110 at Ole Miss) and live-at-home opportunities, and educate about 70 percent of resident students.

NEW JERSEY
Students in: 5,624 Students out: 32,208

Geography may be responsible for the sound of students being sucked out of New Jersey, in the largest outflow in the country. With hundreds of colleges on its fringes, out-of-state institutions can be closer than in-state ones. The University of Delaware captures most of New Jersey's departing high school seniors, followed by New York University, Drexel, Penn State and Boston University. Not everyone is alarmed. ''A lot of people don't feel it's a major problem because we are among the highest in the nation in the number of bachelor's degrees'' held by residents, explains Jeanne M. Oswald, deputy executive director of the New Jersey Commission on Higher Education. ''It's not as if we don't have a highly educated workforce,'' she says, noting that there's no shortage of graduates wanting to live and work in New Jersey or commute to Philadelphia or New York. All this might be just as well considering that the state university system is bursting at the seams. Last year, about 20,000 students applied for 10,000 slots at New Jersey's public colleges. Montclair State University and William Paterson University have had to house students in motels. The State Senate is considering a $2.7 billion bond initiative to finance expansion at both public and private colleges.

NEW YORK
Students in: 36,633 Students out: 30,816

In the 1990's, two factors helped New York outstrip Massachusetts as the state that attracts the most out-of-state students. '''Sex and the City' and 'Seinfeld' basically said that if you're not in New York City, you're nowhere,'' says Abraham M. Lackman, president of the state's Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities. And Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's cleanup efforts emboldened college-seekers. ''People started to look at New York as an out-of-state destination,'' Mr. Lackman says, ''and when they went to the Barron's guide, they discovered the Hamiltons, the Colgates, the Marists.'' New York's 147 private colleges absorb most of the surge, awarding 57 percent of all bachelor's degrees in the state and about 70 percent of all master's and doctorates.

NORTH CAROLINA
Students in: 16,716 Students out: 6,856

Local colleges with national recognition like Duke and Wake Forest draw out-ofstaters. Cheap public tuition -- $4,600 a year for the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill -- keeps North Carolinians home. ''Many states have provisions in their constitutions that say that tuition should be as close to free as possible,'' says Travis Reindl, director for state policy analysis at the American Association of State Colleges and Universities. ''Nobody takes it seriously anymore except North Carolina.''

OHIO
Students in: 14,238 Students out: 15,458

Turn-offs to would-be Ohio students: steadily increasing out-of-state rates ($19,018 for its flagship university) and Ohio's image as an old economy state struggling to find its way in the 21st century(read: a poor location to begin a career). Some 8,000 fewer out-ofstate students enrolled in 2004 than in 2000. Yet 87 percent of residents stay for college because, says Darrell Glenn, director of performance reporting for the Ohio Board of Regents, ''we're a big state, and you don't have to leave to see something different.'' Internal enrollment is actually increasing slightly as two-year colleges grow and Ohio State improves its academic reputation.

PENNSYLVANIA
Students in: 31,880 Students out: 19,034

This popular state has something for everyone: 102 private colleges (elite ones like the University of Pennsylvania and Swarthmore, or midtier liberal arts cocoons like Allegheny College and Ursinus College), 19 state colleges, 14 community colleges and 16 theological seminaries.

TEXAS
Students in: 17,624 Students out: 19,081

Out-of-state enrollment is down in a big way: 38 percent fewer first-timers in 2004 than in 2000. They may have been deterred by tuition increases of almost $7,000 at flagship campuses, thanks to budget cuts and legislation in 2003 that made public colleges free to set their own prices. More Texans are leaving, too. Graduates in the top 10 percent of their high school class get first dibs at state schools. That means less room for strong students from good schools who rank lower -- or at least the perception that their chances are diminished.

VERMONT
Students in: 4,336 Students out: 2,849

With about half of all Vermonters originally from somewhere else, locals think nationally when it comes to selecting a college: 58 percent go out of state. How does underpopulated Vermont lure replacements? ''Skiing is one thing,'' says Donald R. Vickers, president of the Vermont Student Assistance Corporation.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by Peter Arkle)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); BUDGETS (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



603 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 3496 words

HEADLINE: Off the Beaten Path

BYLINE: By Randal C. Archibold. 
Randal C. Archibold is a national correspondent in the Los Angeles bureau of The Times and a former education reporter.

 BODY:
IF you live and die by status, if the name Harvard, Yale, Stanford or Penn must hang etched in sheepskin on your wall, then read no further. There is nothing we can do for you here. The demographic bulge of college-age students has made the journey to a top-tier campus the most arduous, angst-ridden an 18-year-old can make. 
 ''If you decide that there's only one place to go to college and it's Harvard, you are setting yourself up for rejection,'' says Barmak Nassirian, associate executive director for the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. 
There are more than 2,500 four-year colleges and universities in the United States -- an educational landscape unmatched anywhere in the world -- yet only 25 or so of the usual suspects end up on high school seniors' lists. Higher education experts have this message for those squabbling over a handful of spots: you're probably not going to room with the next president anyway. Pay less attention to prestige and more to ''fit'' -- the marriage of interests and comfort level with factors like campus size, access to professors, instruction philosophy. In their caliber of undergraduate teaching, many lesser-known campuses, in their opinion, are on equal or near-equal footing with brand-name universities, and in some ways are more three-dimensional. 
 ''My view is that there is a very modest to zero correlation between general academic prestige and the quality of undergraduate experience available to students,'' says Lee S. Shulman, president of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. ''Those seeking hidden gems are very wise, especially if they are committed to coming to a campus and becoming very active students, taking advantage of faculty office hours, undergrad research experiences and the like.'' 
 Colleges, too, want a more prominent seat at the national admissions table, and have been building up campuses, luring new faculty members and trying to raise academic standards. 
 ''The difference in faculty quality between institutions is much smaller than ever,'' Mr. Shulman says, ''and the opportunities for students in smaller, less prestigious institutions has never been greater.''
 Mr. Nassirian agrees: ''There are numerous institutions that may not be household names or have the resonance of the Ivies but offer superb and sometimes better undergraduate experiences. But people are mesmerized with the usual suspects.''
 Even the notion that a prestige degree unlocks doors and leads to higher earnings has been challenged. A 1999 study by Alan B. Krueger of Princeton and Stacy Dale of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation found that students who were admitted to both selective and moderately selective colleges earned the same no matter which they attended. The study suggested that the motivation and drive of the student mattered more than the college. 
 As parents and counselors clamor for relief from the high-stakes admissions battles, a handful of guides have thrown the spotlight on lesser-known colleges. ''Far too often the conversation is about the inability to get in anywhere,'' says Martha McConnell, an editor of ''Colleges That Change Lives,'' a 1996 book by Loren Pope profiling 40 oft-overlooked but worthy campuses. The concept of ''hidden gems'' has gained so much currency that the 40 have formed the C.T.C.L. coalition and promote themselves as a unit at college fairs. But, Ms. McConnell says, the Ivies-or-bust mentality is ''a shame that tends to still be the way we think.''
 Of course, whether a campus is known or not depends on vantage point. The Claremont Colleges, a consortium of seven institutions near Los Angeles, have long drawn the admiration of cognoscenti west of the Mississippi; two of the colleges, Pomona and Claremont McKenna, are now among the nation's most elite. Who outside of California can name the other five? Likewise, Grinnell and Carleton are selective institutions that are no secret to academic pundits, rankings-makers and high-achieving Midwesterners. 
 But stealth powerhouses outside the Northeast ''simply don't have the brand names,'' says David W. Breneman, dean of the Curry School of Education at the University of Virginia and an expert on the economics of private colleges. Many ''simply don't have the application pressure that the Eastern schools have.'' So the Midwest is dotted with liberal arts opportunities. The West, in its relative youth, lacks the East's private school tradition but has a strong public presence.
 The following colleges, compiled with help from a dozen higher education experts and counselors, stress undergraduate teaching, have established or rising scholarship, even if they come up short on standardized test scores, and are alternatives to the usual suspects. They're not a good fit for everyone, and represent just a small sample of America's riches. There are only so many miles a family can cover on campus visits. But from Ann Arbor, it's an hour and a half to Kalamazoo; from Berkeley to Oakland, 15 minutes. 

Golden State

Pitzer College Claremont, Calif.
Undergraduates: 963
Acceptance rate: 40 percent
Pitzer was founded in 1963 as a women's college and, now coed, embraces its roots in that progressive decade: students enjoy broad academic freedom, and can build their own programs and partake in independent study. Pitzer is a member of the Claremont consortium -- Scripps (all women), Harvey Mudd (math and sciences), two graduate schools (Keck and Claremont) and, of course, Pomona and Claremont McKenna. Consortium students are encouraged to take classes at member colleges, expanding resources and exposing them to a variety of high-powered professors. Campuses adjoin, with most buildings just a 15- to 20-minute walk away. Pitzer has a reputation for a more relaxed environment than the other colleges; some say that's because classes are easier; others say students are not as type A. SAT's are optional, too. Citing a cultural bias to the exam and a desire to improve its ethnic mix, Pitzer waives scores for high-performing students.

Santa Clara University Santa Clara, Calif.Undergraduates: 4,638
Acceptance rate: 61 percent
Founded by the Jesuits in 1851, Santa Clara is California's oldest institution of higher learning. It has long been in the shadow of fellow Silicon Valley titans, Stanford and Berkeley. But ''the Georgetown of the West Coast'' has highly regarded business and engineering programs. Could Mayor Gavin Newsom of San Francisco, Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona and Jerry Brown, mayor of Oakland and former governor, all be wrong? They are some of the notable alumni.

Mills College Oakland, Calif.
Undergraduates: 881
Acceptance rate: 83 percent
Mills boasts about a lot of firsts: the first bachelor's degrees in the West awarded to women, the first women's college to offer a computer science major. Its Center for Contemporary Music is recognized for advancing electronic music. Mills has been expanding its enrollment over the last two years as well as its academics, particularly in professional training; new programs include nursing administration, biopsychology and Latin American studies. The campus sits across the bay from San Francisco, and Oakland has plenty of treasures in its own right. The location also ensures a cross-section of students. Small liberal arts colleges talk a lot about diversity but struggle to broaden their net. At Mills, a third of undergraduates are from minority groups, more than 80 percent get financial aid and almost a quarter are over age 23. The graduate school is coed, improving the gender mix as well.

Pacific Northwest

Southern Oregon University
Ashland
Undergraduates: 4,438
Acceptance rate: 85 percent
The Tony Award-winning Oregon Shakespeare Festival in Ashland was started in 1935 by a teacher at this public university. The campus and festival are retain strong ties. Students in the theater arts program serve internships with the festival; festival staff members assist in student productions, and guest artists lecture. ''The university has an exceptional English and liberal arts curriculum best known for Shakespeare,'' says David Longanecker, executive director of the Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education. Students can minor in Shakespeare studies, which bridges academic study and performance. The summer program in teacher theater training draws educators from around the country. Ashland is hundreds of miles from a big city, but the festival and university seem to thrive thanks to mountainous surroundings that attract tourists and faculty.

Evergreen State College Olympia, Wash.
Undergraduates: 4,191
Acceptance rate: 97 percent
With its hippie vibe, Evergreen is one of the country's more unusual public colleges. Since its founding in 1971 -- think of the time -- Evergreen has sought to throw out the rules, including the class schedule. Students don't quite make it up as they go along, but that's the idea. A seminar here, a workshop there, a field trip, a collaborative lab. ''The college has retained its innovative, iconoclastic spirit, remaining true to its founding principles, holding fast to a belief that faculty and students are both learners,'' says George D. Kuh, director of the Center for Postsecondary Research at Indiana University Bloomington and of the National Survey of Student Engagement. Evergreen was one of 20 colleges he and his co-authors featured in a 2005 book, ''Student Success in College: Creating Conditions That Matter.''

Whitman College Walla Walla, Wash.
Undergraduates: 1,512
Acceptance rate: 47 percent
Here is a college for the outdoors type -- mountains and streams are readily accessible. The city is small enough that it is not unusual to bump into a professor at the coffee shop, and Whitman promises that they won't mind chatting outside of class time (or in class, with an average of just 15 students). ''If you are in the Northwest, people would almost always tell you it is a premiere institution,'' says Mr. Longanecker. Every semester, the college finances trips to campus for 100 minority and low-income high school students, some of whom are offered full-ride scholarships.

Cowboy Country
Colorado College Colorado Springs
Undergraduates: 1,977
Acceptance rate: 38 percent
Students get through Colorado College a course at a time -- literally. One course is taken for three and a half weeks, followed by a four-day break, and then it's on to the next. But the anthropology classroom may well be nearby Anasazi ruins, the geology classroom the Grand Canyon. The college takes advantage of its stunning Rocky Mountain setting, with day and weeklong field trips. To build community, students, most of whom come from outside Colorado, are required to live on campus for the first three years. Perhaps inspired by the college president, Richard F. Celeste, a former Peace Corps director, 20 alumni are currently serving in the corps. Famous graduates include the vice president's wife, Lynne Cheney, and their daughters, Elizabeth and Mary.

University of Oklahoma Norman
Undergraduates: 21,270
Acceptance rate: 82 percent
Oklahoma's rising academic profile is reflected in statistics: No. 1 per capita among public universities in the number of National Merit Scholars enrolled (currently 700) and in the top five in the graduation of Rhodes Scholars. This is a sprawling university, with commensurate academic resources and heterogeneity: about a quarter of undergraduates are minorities (8 percent American Indian) and on Pell grants. Deep in the heartland, Oklahoma has its own natural history museum, a renowned collection of Impressionist paintings, and 20 colleges offering 153 undergraduate majors. We hear the football team is not so bad, either.

Northern Plains

Macalester College St. Paul
Undergraduates: 1,867
Acceptance rate: 39 percent
Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, is an alumnus. That should not be surprising. Twelve percent of enrollment -- a lot for a campus of this size -- are international students representing 78 countries. Mr. Annan, a native of Ghana who graduated in 1961, returned to the campus this spring to dedicate its Institute for Global Citizenship, devoted to addressing world problems. In keeping with its pan-cultural emphasis, the college offers an array of study-abroad programs and field trips within the United States. As for its own location, it has pros (near world-class museums as well as muskie fishing) and cons (fearfully frigid winters).

Carleton College Northfield, Minn.
Undergraduates: 1,936
Acceptance rate: 29 percent
Carleton's Frisbee prowess may be matched only by the high number of students who go on to earn doctorates, particularly in math and science. When the winter snow finally recedes, students break out the flying discs in serious club competitions. Who said Carletonians were nerdy and cerebral? ''Carleton is a place where able and intelligent students with a quirky sense of humor would go,'' says Mr. Longanecker of the Western Interstate Commission. Carleton's scholarship is well documented. It ranks behind only Williams, Amherst, Swarthmore and Wellesley as best liberal arts college in the country, according to U.S. News & World Report, and is equally selective.

Grinnell College
Grinnell, Iowa
Undergraduates: 1,546
Acceptance rate: 37 percent
Grinnell is something like the frugal farmer tucking money away under the mattress. A lot of money. It has a $1.3 billion endowment, due largely to landing the investor Warren E. Buffett as a trustee. And it doesn't hurt that one of the founders of Intel, Robert N. Noyce, is an alumnus and that the college invested early in the company's stock. The endowment pays for half the operating budget, and a healthy bottom line means ample resources -- at the moment, a major expansion of the science center, construction of a student center, and paid internships and summer research projects for students. Grinnell, 50 miles from Des Moines, has long been a favorite of Iowans searching for strong academics not too far from home, but it has recently drawn from farther afield.

Cornell College Mount Vernon, Iowa
Undergraduates: 1,184
Acceptance rate: 66 percent
Like at Colorado College, Cornell students take one intensive monthlong course at a time. The block plan allows them to really focus and to spend more time in the field, college officials say. Students can design their own majors, though the most popular are psychology and teacher education. Loren Pope featured Cornell in his ''Colleges That Change Lives,'' citing the degree to which professors involve students in their research and the number of students (two-thirds) who go on to graduate or professional school. The entire campus, a mix of architectural styles on a wooded hilltop, is on the National Register of Historic Places. Lest there be any confusion with the Ivy League Cornell University, students wear T-shirts with the slogan ''Isn't that in Ithaca?'' Just to keep the confusion going: the two institutions' founders were distant cousins.

The Midwest

Kalamazoo College
Kalamazoo, Mich.
Undergraduates: 1,234
Acceptance rate: 68 percent
About 80 percent of Kalamazoo students choose to study overseas, taking advantage of 50 programs on every continent but Antarctica. Study abroad forms part of the ''K'' plan, the college's term for academic and extracurricular endeavors. Internships and senior projects are emphasized. Kalamazoo has 11 students to every faculty member, almost all with Ph.D.'s.

Earlham College Richmond, Ind.
Undergraduates: 1,201
Acceptance rate: 70 percent
Japanese gardens on campus reflect Earlham's ties to Japan, which go back more than 100 years. Its nationally recognized Japanese studies program has offered bachelor's degrees since 1974. A global perspective permeates the curriculum; students must be proficient in a foreign language by graduation. Earlham also does well in the National Survey of Student Engagement, which sets benchmarks to measure student involvement. High levels of engagement may have something to do with Earlham's Quaker roots and adherence to church principles of community.

Miami University Oxford, Ohio
Undergraduates: 14,481
Acceptance rate: 70 percent
No, not that Miami -- this university is named for the Indian tribe that inhabited the Midwest. ''The focus is truly on educating undergraduates,'' says Terry Hartle, a senior vice president at the American Council on Education. ''This is a medium-size institution with the advantages that confers'' -- high-quality facilities, research opportunities -- ''but it still has the feel of a small liberal arts college.'' Half the classes have fewer than 25 students. Miami's reputation among Ohioans for partying may come from the proliferation of fraternities and sororities. But its graduation rates are among the highest in public education.

Kenyon College Gambier, Ohio
Undergraduates: 1,634
Acceptance rate: 34 percent
''An excellent tradition in the humanities, creative writing and theater,'' says Mr. Breneman, who was president of Kalamazoo College in the 1980's. It's ''not an accident that Paul Newman is an alum,'' he says. Nor E.L. Doctorow. The college puts a premium on good writing and produces the Kenyon Review, a literary magazine. The combination of creativity and academic rigor has been noted in the Ivy belt, with a third of students from the New England and Middle Atlantic states. Quaint tradition: At the beginning of the year, freshmen gather on the steps of one of its stately buildings and sing Kenyon songs. Four years later, the same students assemble again to sing before their commencement.

College of Wooster Wooster, Ohio
Undergraduates: 1,827
Acceptance rate: 75 percent
 The mantra of the liberal arts college: Think hard and critically. To prove that students have developed that skill, each must complete an independent study project, with one-on-one guidance by a faculty member. This could be a written work, performance or art exhibit. Sitting in the middle of cornfields here, distractions from studies are few -- except maybe dreaming about a road trip to Cleveland nightspots. 

The Northeast

SUNY Geneseo Geneseo, N.Y.
Undergraduates: 5,174
Acceptance rate: 41 percent
Kiplinger's Personal Finance magazine puts the State University of New York's Geneseo campus at the top of its list of ''Best Values in Public Colleges'' for out-of-state students, with tuition under $12,000. Geneseo, in a historic village south of Rochester, is often overshadowed by its upstate cousin Binghamton, which has long been seen as an alternative for New Yorkers who didn't get into or chose not to go to the Ivies. But Geneseo has been ''pushing the envelope on its rival,'' says Shereem Herndon-Brown, a private consultant who was director of college counseling at Riverdale Country School in New York. Geneseo, the most selective of SUNY's comprehensive colleges, is increasingly seen as a first choice for high achievers who cannot or won't do the financial aid dance with private colleges.

Union College Schenectady, N.Y.
Undergraduates: 2,150
Acceptance rate: 47 percent
That's Union as in the union of science, particularly engineering, and the humanities. Consider this year's valedictorian, Mark Weston, who majored in computer science with a minor in classics. The salutatorian, Marisa Zarchy, was a biology major with a double minor in chemistry and art. More than 150 years ago, Union was one of the big four -- right up there with Harvard, Yale and Princeton -- before losing ground amid a scandal over college finances. Union began a revival in the early 1900's with the addition of an electrical engineering program, tapping a relatively new technology. Three years ago, Union embarked on another experiment. Worried that Greek life was dominating campus (the country's three oldest fraternities were founded at Union), administrators created the Minerva houses, after the Roman goddess of wisdom. Students, about 300 each, and professors are assigned to one of seven houses, where they study, hold discussion groups and just hang out; upperclassmen can live in the houses. Mr. Herndon-Brown lauds the new social climate for letting Union's ''academic richness'' shine through.

Wheaton College Norton, Mass.
Undergraduates: 1,550
Acceptance rate: 41 percent
With Boston's powerhouses nearby, it's easy to overlook small, solid colleges like Wheaton, which lack the cachet and cash of their urban peers. But Wheaton, which was once a women's college, is singled out as a choice for students looking for a more intimate experience. Mr. Kuh cites its seminar for new students, taught by a team of advisers made up of teachers, administrators and older students. In a program called ''Connections,'' aimed at broadening perspectives, all students must take sets of courses on a single topic from different departments. For example, the ''African Diaspora in the New World'' connection entails classes from the music, history and sociology departments. Students are urged to make their own connections.


GRAPHIC: Photos: GREAT EXPANSES -- Grazing at Carleton College's wind turbine, near Northfield, Minn. (Photo by Robb Long/Associated Press)(pg. 22)
CONNECTIONS -- Students gather on Pitzer's ''mounds''
an Evergreen professor and student conduct a hydrology survey in the Skokomish River Valley. (Photo by Laurie Babcock/Pitzer College)
(Photo by Martin Kane/Evergreen State College)(pg. 23)
TRADITIONS -- Colorado College's version of golf involves trying to hit campus buildings with tennis balls. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. 24)
LANDMARKS -- From left, Macalester students along the Mississippi, the Light Fine Arts Building at Kalamazoo College and the 16-sided Nott Memorial at Union College. (Photographs by Bill Denison/Macalester College
Keith Mumma/Kalamazoo College
 Jason Slater/Union College)(pg. 25)Maps of various areas in the U.S. showing the locations of select colleges and universities. (Maps by Peter Arkle)(pgs. 22, 23, 24, 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OFF THE BEATEN PATH LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGIATE REGISTRARS & ADMISSIONS OFFICERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (90%) COLORADO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



604 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: To Cut or Not to Cut

BYLINE: By Lisa Guernsey. 
Lisa Guernsey is writing a book on electronic media and children, to be published by Basic Books next year.

 BODY:
ROLL call has been a staple of elementary school for ages: ''Abby?'' ''Here.'' ''Johnny?'' ''Present.'' 
 Now picture the same scene with college students. Unlikely? The practice is more common than you'd think. Professors are taking note of who is in class and who is not. They may not be making seating assignments a la fifth grade, but they are keeping track of no-shows, marking who is absent or asking students in big lecture halls to sign attendance sheets.
Some professors have taken it upon themselves to punish class cutters, subtracting points from grades for excessive absences. Many universities have policies giving professors the explicit power to fail students for poor attendance; faculty members at Georgetown can give a freshman or sophomore an F for missing more than 15 percent of a course. Other institutions require roll-taking. At North Carolina State University, for example, attendance records are mandated for all 100- and 200-level classes. And a few institutions, like the University of Phoenix, the commercial adult education institution, require attendance to be taken in every course. 
 Twenty to 30 years ago, the premise was, ''If you want to learn, you go to class and you get up front,'' says Steve Gump, a graduate student in higher-education administration at the University of Illinois at Urbana who has published two journal articles about truancy in college. 
 But administrators today are concerned with a dropout problem, and professors face a new kind of competition: online simulations of their teaching. For several years they have been encouraged -- a few would say pressured -- to put their course lecture notes, slides and even videos on the Internet. 
 The downside is that students sometimes skip class and go on the Web instead. ''I put a lot of stuff on the Web one year, and attendance just plummeted,'' says Rick Murray, a professor of oceanography at Boston University who often teaches an introductory course of 200 students. Now, he says, he puts only the class syllabus online. He also practices what he calls de facto attendance taking: he makes sure that his tests include at least one question from every lecture. 
 The few surveys that exist on absenteeism provide no evidence of a worsening problem, though. About 33 percent of freshmen said last spring that they had skipped class frequently or occasionally, according to a survey of more than 40,000 students by the Higher Education Research Institute at the University of California at Los Angeles. Two years earlier, about 35 percent said they had skipped class. And in 1993, before the days of the Web, a smaller but often-cited study out of the University of California at Berkeley delivered a similar statistic: at three different institutions, on any given day, one-third of students did not show up for their economics class. Cutting class just might be an immutable part of college life.
 ''People don't go to class because it's boring or they don't like to get up at 8 a.m.,'' says Jessica Hall, a senior at the University of Maryland. ''If I have a choice of just reading the book or getting up at 8 a.m., I'd rather read the book.''
 Yet college administrators and professors say that being in the classroom is more important than ever. 
 ''Small group assignments are a big part of student learning today,'' says Jeffrey Alstete, an associate dean in the Hagan School of Business at Iona College, who has written several books on college teaching. ''This is different from 20 to 30 years ago when the most common method was lecture and exams.'' Students who miss class, he says, are bringing down not only their own grades but also those of their peers, since team projects suffer. Moreover, studies over the past few decades show a strong correlation between attending classes regularly and graduating. 
 Making sure that students don't drop out is becoming a critical mission. Not only does a strong retention rate enter into a college's rating, it keeps the spirit of academic pursuit alive and fosters a sense of community. 
 Financial aid rules are yet another impetus for attendance-taking. Federal regulations require colleges to record when a student drops out so that unused grants and loans can be returned. Some institutions, like Iona, have decided that the easiest way to do that is to require teachers to keep attendance records.
 What works best in persuading students to actually attend class? Anecdotally, professors say fear is powerful -- like the threat of points being deducted from a final grade or pop quizzes that truants could not make up. (There's nothing like a couple of zeros to bring down a class grade.) 
 The act of simply taking roll -- of showing students that their presence is noted -- has been shown to have a positive effect, too, says Kelly A. Rocca, professor of communications at St. John's University in Queens, who has studied ways to improve attendance rates. 
 ''This is a hot topic in higher education right now,'' she says. It has led to debates on some campuses about whether taking attendance should be a requirement -- a concept that causes many professors to bristle. 
 According to the old school of thought, 18-year-olds should be responsible enough to know that cutting class leads to less learning.
 ''Higher education isn't what it once was,'' says Watson Swail, president of the nonprofit Educational Policy Institute, who directed a national study on ways to keep students from dropping out. ''You have to treat students more like high school students all the time.''
 Handholding and intervention has led to a significant drop in absences at Mississippi State University. The program is called Pathfinders. 
 First, attendance-taking is required at every freshman course. ''We tell professors, 'If a student has missed two times in your class, we want to know about it,' '' says Ty Abernathy, a research associate at the Social Science Research Center, where the program was developed. 
 Members of the Pathfinders team, who include resident assistants in dormitories, reach out to the truant student with a phone call, e-mail message or dorm-room visit; they discuss the problem and offer information about counseling and tutoring resources. 
 Sometimes students who skip class are simply overwhelmed with the transition to college life, Mr. Abernathy says. They need to know someone is watching out for them, he says, and they start to excel once they have been pushed, whether it is with extra writing instruction or a guided library tour. 
 Before the program, about 25 percent of freshmen were missing four or more class periods in at least one course. Now the rate is around 10 percent. Retention rates and grade point averages are up, too.
 ''Our whole culture has changed here,'' Mr. Abernathy says. 
 Another answer to absenteeism may be harder to execute, but students have been suggesting it for years: more engaging classes. In a study of 189 students, Dr. Rocca of St. John's found a correlation between high attendance rates and professors who were accessible, positive and nonintimidating. She advises teachers to be less detached and dictatorial and more open to dialogue; then, she says, the students will come. 
 A survey by Mr. Gump at the University of Illinois led to the same intuitive conclusion: an interesting class is the best motivator. He found that 85 percent of students said they would attend a class if it was interesting, whereas 67 percent would be there for every class if it meant extra credit. This strategy might also reduce the incidence of that other innate part of college life: attending class but sleeping through it.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Don Cravens/Time Life Pictures-Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SCHOOL TRUANCY (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); OCEANOGRAPHY (67%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



605 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Redrawing the College Map

BYLINE: By Jennifer Steinhauer. 
Jennifer Steinhauer is the Los Angeles bureau chief of The Times.

 BODY:

FACT -- New Jersey is the perennial loser in the student migration wars: more of its residents leave the state to go to college than anywhere else in the country. On the other end of the spectrum, so many students have decided that sunshine, mosquitoes and the Marlins are the essential elements of the college experience that Florida is the state with the highest ''net migration'' (the number who enter minus the number who leave).

FACT -- The swelling population of 18-year-olds -- members of the demographic behemoth known as the echo boom, offspring of the baby boomers -- is expected to peak in 2009, when the largest group of high school seniors in the nation's history, 3.2 million, are to graduate. While a slow descent is projected to follow, the growing value of a college degree means record high enrollments every year until 2015, according to a June report from the United States Department of Education.

FACT -- College-age populations of the Midwest and Northeast are shrinking, while those in the South and West are rising. States with large immigrant populations, like Florida and Arizona, are expected to see the most growth in the college-age pipeline. 
 For anxious parents mulling their child's educational options, these are not so much interesting statistics mirroring larger demographic trends as tarot cards portending where the competition -- and opportunity -- rests in the application process. 
 The most selective private colleges have become phenomenally so. Flagship public campuses are increasingly difficult to penetrate. But there are hidden gems around the nation, higher learning institutions cached in states where population growth is stagnant or dwindling.
 ''Migration depends on supply and demand,'' says David A. Longanecker, executive director of the Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education, based in Boulder, Colo. ''You will see substantial migration into Sun Belt states because there is capacity there.'' Some states, though, ''are growing so large they will need to force students out.''
 Consider Florida, whose overall population has doubled since 1980. With more than 57,000 students, Miami Dade College is the country's largest degree-granting institution, after the University of Phoenix Online. Enrollment in the state university system has increased by more than 80,000 in 10 years, and 3 of its 11 palm-studded campuses have student bodies exceeding 40,000. The University of Florida at Gainesville enrolls 49,725 students, and admits roughly half its applicants.
 ''We had about 12,000 applications from children of alumni alone, and we only have space for 6,600'' freshmen, says Janie M. Fouke, the provost. ''So you have to turn them away, and they are flabbergasted. We have to get our message clear to help people understand that it is not going to be a slam dunk to getting people in here.'' 
 Even backup choices are safety schools no longer, as top students rejected by top schools squeeze out B students. The ''slightly lower-tier flagship public land-grant school that your average solid high school student in each state could have banked on, well, those days are gone,'' says Barmak Nassirian, associate executive director of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers.
 So what is the strategy for college-bound students over the next several years?
 In theory, it is to apply to colleges in states losing young people, like Vermont, Maine or the Dakotas. 
 ''In states with low capacity, look for places with tuition benefits like the ones the state provides,'' Mr. Longanecker says. ''North Dakota will give you a hell of a deal. My guess is in the future, there will be some pretty good deals in Midwestern universities.''
 Students who, in less competitive times, would have been shoo-ins for the nation's most elite colleges may want to research which universities have raised their academic profiles. ''The University of Oklahoma is a classic example,'' Mr. Longanecker says. ''Many students never used to consider it. Now it has the largest share of National Merit Scholars in the country. There are other just amazing finds. At Montana State University, the students who go there have a heck of a deal. It is a great school, in a beautiful location, with faculty that is unbelievably dedicated, and nonresident tuition is below most private colleges.'' 
 In sheer numbers, New York's array of coveted universities attracts the most students from other states, followed by California and Pennsylvania, according to a March report from the Education Department showing the comings and goings of first-time degree- and certificate-seeking students for fall 2004. Wisconsin and Ohio, deep in the Rust Belt, are now exporting more students than they import. 
 Where students choose to attend is traditionally seen as a barometer of a state's higher-education appeal. But the picture is far more nuanced. Lack of capacity (New Jersey) and soaring tuition (California) will stem an influx of out-of-state students. Other states (Georgia) try to keep their residents at home by offering juicy tuition incentives to well-performing high school graduates.
 ''If your mind-set is very European, it is a form of macro-econ planning, the thinking being that education matters so much to the welfare of the state so you induce people to stay,'' Mr. Nassirian says. ''Regrettably, many states have decided to go this route.'' Regrettably, he means, because ''these programs are designed to go to higher-achieving, often less-needy students.''
 ''This has the effect of spending public dollars on students who would have gone to college anyway, only to keep them in state,'' he says. 
 One high school graduate in five who goes directly to college leaves his home state to do so, and studies show that most come from affluent families.
 ''There is all this hue and cry about affordability,'' says Robert Zemsky, chairman of the Learning Alliance for Higher Education at the University of Pennsylvania. ''But if you look at where students choose to enroll, it is almost always the higher-priced option.'' 
 ''If kids were smart,'' he says, ''they would look at the inverse of the population chart. But that is generally not how students and parents behave. They look at where other people go.''


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Peter Arkle)Chart/Map:Map of the United States highlighting projected change in the number of high school graduates, 2005-6 to 2015-16.(SOURCE by Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education
 number of students in 2005 and 2015 are projections based on 2001-2 data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); BABY BOOMERS (75%); CHILDREN (74%); HISTORY (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); TRENDS (73%); GENERATION Y (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PHOENIX ONLINE (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



606 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 3; Education Life Supplement; SPENDING IT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: The Stepparent Trap

BYLINE: By James Schembari

 BODY:
APPLYING for financial aid is confusing enough, but for students whose parents are divorced or separated it can be downright confounding -- especially when applying for the grants and loans a private college awards from its own resources. 
 Which parent is responsible for college? What about stepparents' income? Child support? Just because you think of your family one way doesn't mean a college will agree. Each sets its own rules on how to define the family, and those definitions have substantial impact on how much money a student can get.
And it's a free-for-all. One college may follow the federal formula, basing need on the financial data of the ''custodial household,'' the parent (and any new spouse) the student lives with the most. Another might figure in only the biological parents. Others calculate in stepparents as well, making the assets and incomes of four people fair game. 
 Even if a father hasn't sent a birthday card or paid child support for 15 years, his income can count. And if a stepmother is an investment banker, her income might hurt your chances of getting aid. 
 With the rising cost of higher education, institutional aid has become a growing supplement to government aid. Colleges gave out $24 billion of their own money in 2004-5 (aid from federal sources hit $90 billion). A student relying on this form of aid might want to ask a college who it thinks his parents are first.
 Financial aid directors say they have been seeing more blended families, and unraveling these complex relationships has become increasingly difficult. In deciding which parents should contribute and how much, directors try to get an overall picture of family relationships. Does the student have a room in both homes? Does a remarried parent have the expense of stepchildren? Has the custodial stepparent had a long connection with the student, or has he or she just married into the family?
 Sarah Lawrence College collects information from all four parents and takes a particularly close look at the stepparent the student lives with, because he or she may have a strong financial effect on the household. ''We look at them to be more supportive of household expenses where the student resides, thus freeing up the biological parents' resources for paying for college,'' says Heather C. McDonnell, the college's director of financial aid. 
 While colleges get the final say, a student can appeal, arguing, for example, that a neglectful father's income should be ignored. Some colleges waive a parent's participation when there are extenuating circumstances.
 ''The noncustodial parent is sometimes no longer relevant to that student,'' says Julia Perreault, director of financial aid at Emory University in Atlanta, which examines the financial standing of all parents and spouses. ''Perhaps there has been no contact; sometimes there are restraining orders. All of those factors have to be considered. It's a case-by-case basis. We essentially decide who the parent unit is for this student applicant.''
 The College Board has been trying to bring order to the chaotic system. This past school year it sent letters to colleges urging them to follow a uniform policy using income and assets of only biological or adoptive parents. ''The standard should be that students only have two parents and that even if your parents are divorced, they divorced each other, they didn't divorce you,'' says Sandy Baum, senior policy analyst at the College Board and a professor of economics at Skidmore College. 
 Tufts University uses biological parents, custodial or not, in its calculations. ''It's basic fairness,'' says Patricia Reilly, director of financial aid at Tufts. ''We feel very strongly that parents have a responsibility to pay for college, so we have always collected the information from both parents.'' 
 Laura W. Morgan, a family law specialist in Charlottesville, Va., and the author of the treatise ''Child Support Guidelines,'' says it makes sense to base aid on the biological parents because only they have a legal obligation to support their children. ''Under no stretch of the imagination does a stepparent have the duty to support a stepchild who is over the age of majority and not living at home.'' 
 Of course, many loving stepparents and noncustodial parents want to pitch in. But if their support is voluntary, Mark Kantrowitz, president of the Web site FinAid.org, recommends that they hold off. ''The college will take this at face value in reducing institutional aid,'' he says. ''It is generally a good idea to wait until after the student graduates to help out -- e.g., by helping pay off the student loans.'' He offers two other strategies (extreme, he says, and problematic): live with the poorer parent, or if love can wait, delay remarriage.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Whose Money Counts? That Depends''A student who lives with his mother and stepfather (custodial parents) applies for nongovernment aid from three colleges. Each costs $40,000. What will he be eligible for?Calculations are based on standard methodologies used by private colleges.Student's mother earns $38,000 a year
stepfather, $49,000. Have $100,000 in home equity and receive $4,800 in child support.College AConsiders all four parentsEXPECTED CUSTODIAL FAMILY CONTRIBUTION: $13,000College BConsiders custodial parents onlyEXPECTED CUSTODIAL FAMILY CONTRIBUTION: $13,000College CConsiders biological parents onlyEXPECTED CUSTODIAL FAMILY CONTRIBUTION: $6,000Student's father earns $56,000
 stepmother, $80,000. Have $150,000 in home equity and pay $4,800 in support.College AConsiders all four parentsEXPECTED NONCUSTODIAL FAMILY CONTRIBUTION: $21,000College BConsiders custodial parents onlyEXPECTED NONCUSTODIAL FAMILY CONTRIBUTION: --College CConsiders biological parents onlyEXPECTED NONCUSTODIAL FAMILY CONTRIBUTION: $8,000Student's expected contribution (from summer job).College AConsiders all four parentsEXPECTED NONCUSTODIAL FAMILY CONTRIBUTION: $1,500College BConsiders custodial parents onlyEXPECTED NONCUSTODIAL FAMILY CONTRIBUTION: $1,500College CConsiders biological parents onlyEXPECTED NONCUSTODIAL FAMILY CONTRIBUTION: $1,500AID ELIGIBILITYCollege AConsiders all four parentsEXPECTED NONCUSTODIAL FAMILY CONTRIBUTION: $4,500College BConsiders custodial parents onlyEXPECTED NONCUSTODIAL FAMILY CONTRIBUTION: $25,500College CConsiders biological parents onlyEXPECTED NONCUSTODIAL FAMILY CONTRIBUTION: $24,500(Source by Donald A. Saleh, associate vice president for enrollment management, Syracuse University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEPPARENTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); PARENTING (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (79%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); FAMILY (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (69%) GEORGIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



607 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 6; Education Life Supplement; AUTHOR Q & A; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Grade Deflation 

BYLINE: By CECILIA CAPUZZI SIMON

 BODY:
ADMIT it. You really would like to ace every one of your courses this semester. ''Grades are the currency of college,'' write Jeremy S. Hyman and Lynn F. Jacobs, co-authors of ''Professors' Guide to Getting Good Grades in College,'' published this month by Collins. Mr. Hyman, who has taught philosophy at the University of Arkansas, M.I.T. and Princeton, agreed to demystify the grading process. CECILIA CAPUZZI SIMON

Q. First off, aren't A's easy? 


A. There's not as much grade inflation as you think. It is less of an issue at state schools and more of a problem at top schools, where about 50 percent of grades are A's and B's, especially in upper-division classes. But that's changing. Princeton, for example, now limits the number of A's in undergraduate courses to fewer than 35 percent.

Q. How is grading in college different than in high school?

A. In high school, the grade mill is running all the time. In college, professors aren't giving much thought to grades until the sixth or seventh week of the semester. Grading is clustered into a few moments -- when the grader is occupied with your tests or papers. That's the time to sweat.

Q. You write that the end of the semester is critical. Can you explain why?

A. The last month of the semester is when students are stressed and losing momentum. Usually a research paper or presentation is due, and the final is given. What you do in the last month could add up to 60 percent of your grade. Students should shed commitments. Triage your courses. Some are not as important as others; some you may be doing better in than others.
 Use course resources. When the learning is done, professors often focus students on how to get the best grade. That's a good time to meet with him. Go to review sessions. You could save 5 to 10 hours of studying. Professors often give out sample questions for the final. If you're a minimally rational person, you will spend three or four hours on each. They synthesize the course.

Q.What about an E for effort? That always worked in high school.

A.You have the students who don't hand in good work but think that because they went to all the reviews, hired a tutor and did the extension problems, they should earn a good grade. They probably won't.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WRITERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRADE INFLATION (78%); DEFLATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JACOBS CO INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



608 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 2; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2873 words

HEADLINE: Southbound

BYLINE: By Abigail Sullivan Moore. 
Abigail Sullivan Moore last wrote for Education Life about lacrosse as an admissions strategy.

 BODY:
FOR generations, college-bound students in the South have made the trip that some know as the I-85 crawl, visiting colleges along the interstate from the heart of North Carolina into the northwest corner of South Carolina. 
 In the last few years, thousands of students from the North have joined the caravan.
Some pull off for Guilford College in Greensboro, N.C. They joke about running into one another, says Randy Doss, Guilford's vice president for enrollment. He writes out directions to other colleges for the visitors. ''We say, 'How many are going to Wake Forest? Or Davidson?''' Enrollment from the Northeast has increased 44 percent since 2000 at Guilford.
 Some colleges on the route -- Duke, Wake Forest, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill -- need no introduction. But Guilford, as well as Furman, in South Carolina; Davidson and Elon in North Carolina; and the Charlotte campus of U.N.C. have been known mostly to residents south of Maryland. Yet with aggressive marketing directed squarely at affluent neighbors and a confluence of other factors, students from the Northeast have become the campuses' fastest growing pool of applicants. Some admissions officials note interest from the previously ambivalent Midwest. 
 ''What's happening is the sheer selectivity of schools has forced kids in a good way to look outside their regions and think more nationally,'' says Rod Skinner, director of college counseling at Milton Academy, a top-tier prep school just south of Boston. Using a map in his office, with the locations of selective college campuses flagged, Mr. Skinner guides parents along the I-85 crawl or in the ''cluster approach'' (if you're flying to Nashville to see Vanderbilt, you might as well visit the highly regarded Rhodes College in Memphis). 
 At the College of Charleston on the South Carolina coast, applications over the last five years have declined by 4 percent over all, but those from the Northeast have risen by 69 percent. Like most public institutions, Charleston sets a limit for out-of-state students (35 percent), even though it gets at least 50 percent more applications from nonresidents. U.N.C. at Charlotte has seen a 43 percent increase in freshman enrollment from the Northeast. 
 The trend is also evident in private liberal arts colleges. The population of freshmen from the Northeast has grown over the last five years at Washington and Lee in Lexington, Va. (to 37 percent from 27 percent), Davidson (31 percent from 25), Warren Wilson College in Asheville, N.C. (36 percent from 20) and Miami University in Coral Gables, Fla. (25 percent from 19). 
 Go back a decade and the increases seem even more drastic. 
 Nancy Siegel, head of guidance at Millburn High School in New Jersey, calls her community a place ''where name recognition is important to parents and students.''
 ''Now,'' she says, ''I see more and more of that name recognition moving from name schools in the Northeast to schools in the South.'' 
 The wave of students expanding their boundaries south has raised competition at many of the campuses, leaving area residents with fewer desirable options close to home. ''It's making it more difficult for young people from the South to get into schools in the South that they would have gotten into easily 5 or 10 years ago,'' says Jean Hague, an educational consultant in Atlanta. ''Some of these kids have gone to very good private day schools since kindergarten.'' 
 The growing exclusivity at Southern colleges is also creating a bit of ill will. There certainly is ''a feeling on the part of parents in Georgia'' that Northern students are taking up too many of the coveted spots, says Mrs. Hague. She encourages her clients to broaden their searches, to include colleges in New England, California, Colorado and Texas. 
 For Northern families who have aspired to send their children to well-known colleges in the North, turning to lesser known Southern schools takes some adjusting. ''There are so many great schools in the Northeast, and culturally it's hard for kids to turn their backs on these safe choices, choices that will be validated by friends and parents,'' says David Lesesne, dean of admissions at Sewanee: the University of the South, a quintessentially Southern institution in Tennessee where non-Southerners made up 12 percent of the student body in 2005, up from 7 percent in 2002. 
 Colleges know that parents want status attached to their choice, and try to infuse their institutions with some by selecting strong applicants from previously untapped communities. Admissions officials call the strategy the bell cow: they recruit a popular, respected student who can lead the rest of the herd to their campus. ''That individual student personifies your institution,'' Mr. Lesesne says. ''That's when you want people to say: 'That's where Jimmy went to school. What a great guy he is.' '' 
 In 2000, Sewanee worked hard to attract a top student from Chicago's affluent North Shore, offering her a generous merit scholarship. At the time, she was weighing an offer from Dartmouth. She chose Sewanee and went on to become a Rhodes Scholar in 2004. Now 10 students from the North Shore go to Sewanee, which has enjoyed a similar success in Greenwich, Conn. ''Good kids beget good kids,'' Mr. Lesesne says.
 After a few respected students at Milton Academy enrolled at Vanderbilt in 2004, four more went in 2005, Mr. Skinner says. Last year, 19 students enrolled at Southern campuses -- ''the biggest year we have ever had for Southern schools,'' he says -- and 13 will do so this fall. James Madison University in Harrisonburg, Va., focuses its national staff of nine recruiters on the Northeast corridor and is starting to explore Ohio. Elon University plans to scour the Northeast from Labor Day to Thanksgiving with nine recruiters. Guilford employs a full-time regional recruiter in Boston. Many are concentrating on private schools. Last year, an alumnus donated $50,000 to finance Sewanee's recruiting efforts in boarding schools. 
 Even colleges that are farther afield, like Millsaps in Jackson, Miss., whose student body is largely from the region, are looking North for the well-to-do. ''You run into the hardship of trying to sell a $30,000 education'' -- tuition and board at Millsaps -- to families whose total income is $30,000 and that's Louisiana and Alabama,'' says Karen Cadiere, Millsaps's director of admissions operations. ''When you go up the East Coast, you already have parents who are paying $30,000'' for private high schools. 
 But the Deep South, with its history of racial tensions and less progressive politics and culture, is a harder sell. ''People in the Northeast are very iffy about Southern culture,'' says Sabena Moretz, associate director of admissions at the University of Richmond in Virginia. ''They only want to tiptoe in.''
 Marilyn G. Emerson, an educational consultant in Chappaqua, N.Y., says fewer families will consider less familiar states like Alabama and Mississippi. ''There are just some preconceived ideas about what these areas are like,'' she says. ''People vacation in North and South Carolina and Florida. Maybe that's why people are more willing to go.''
 DAVIDSON'S 1,700 undergraduates are surrounded by 450 green acres dotted with Georgian architecture and historic halls. Among its graduates are Woodrow Wilson; former Secretary of State Dean Rusk; and the best-selling author Patricia Cornwell. Depending on their frames of reference, alumni are fond of calling Harvard, Williams or Middlebury ''the Davidsons of the North.'' 
 Davidson has the look and feel of a New England liberal arts college, and similar demographics. Only 37 percent of the last freshman class was from the Southeast. With a 45 percent increase in applicants from the Northeast over 10 years, Davidson is also recruiting in Chicago, Ohio, Texas and Southern California, says Christopher J. Gruber, dean of admissions. For now, though, it is not readily recognized outside the South, despite being close to or on U.S. News & World Report's list of the top 10 liberal arts colleges for the past decade. 
 ''People tell me they know people who went to graduate school here,'' says Jack Varon, a junior from Teaneck, N.J., relaxing one night with friends on the Davidson Commons. They laugh knowingly: Davidson is strictly undergraduate. 
 Davidson, which Mr. Varon heard about during a college admissions workshop, was his second choice; his first, Columbia, rejected him. ''I'm over it,'' he says, his friends teasing him. 
 Ida Bastiaens, an economics major from Pittsburgh, enrolled at Davidson because it was ''the only good school I got into.'' Her mediocre SAT scores, she reasons, spurred the rejections at Wesleyan, the University of Pennsylvania and Johns Hopkins. For fall 2005, the middle 50 percent of Davidson's freshmen scored a respectable 1280 to 1440 on their combined SAT's.
 Well-qualified candidates from the North may get an admissions edge at colleges that are trying to build a national image. ''All things being equal, a candidate from a less represented area such as New Hampshire will get the nod over a candidate from a more represented Southern state,'' Mr. Gruber says. 
 Students describe Davidson as challenging, yet oddly noncompetitive (at least compared with their only frame of reference, high school). Davidson has an honor code that students respond to. Outside the cafeteria, scores of backpacks are left unattended. Doors are seldom locked. 
 About 100 miles north of Davidson, Elon has also tried to capitalize on charm. A road leads visitors past the campus heart -- a large fountain framed by well-kept lawns, dogwood and magnolia trees and a horseshoe of Georgian-style buildings. The fountain area is where students and faculty members mingle for coffee, juice and bagels nearly every Tuesday morning. The coffee hour, begun in 1984, has become Elon's symbol of Southern hospitality. Another swath of green is surrounded by the library, the visitors' center and the recreation center.
 It wasn't always this way. 
 For years Elon languished, for the most part drawing students from the region with so-so grades. Pushed by dwindling enrollment in the 70's, officials began an ambitious effort to make their campus and curriculum more attractive. Later, they started aggressively recruiting in the Northeast. 
 ''We began to recognize that our students from the Northeast are well-to-do and that they would want to come to a school that represents the same level of quality in their own lives,'' says Susan C. Klopman, Elon's dean of admissions. Elon also lobbied national guidebooks -- successfully, it seems. Its cost (about $25,000 including room and board) and reputation for engaging students in active learning through internships and study abroad helped earn it a ''best buy'' designation in the 2006 ''Fiske Guide to Colleges'' and Barron's 2004 ''Best Buys in College Education.'' The 2006 Kaplan-Newsweek guide calls Elon one of the nation's 25 ''hottest colleges.'' 
 In the past decade, applications have nearly doubled and enrollment has increased by a third at Elon, with the Northeast underwriting that growth. Those students account for about 35 percent of the student body, up from 16 percent in 1985. Meanwhile, enrollment from Southeastern states has dropped to 55 percent from 81 percent in 1985. 
 ''We get a lot of alumni who went here in the 80's and say, 'I couldn't get into Elon now,' '' says Daniel J. Anderson, an Elon spokesman. For 2006, the acceptance rate was 41 percent, with an average combined SAT score of 1208.
 ''It's a school I used to put on every child's list when I first started out,'' says Bunny Porter-Shirley, a college admissions consultant from Nashville. ''But today it's on the tip of everyone's tongue and very hard to get into.'' 
 Ryan Ulbrich, an Elon freshman from Wexford, Pa., is taking experimental photography, a radical departure from his interest in philosophy; the class is promoted by faculty members to get students to ''think outside the box.'' After class, he talks about his decision to attend Elon. ''I love the South,'' he says. ''I love the weather.'' 
 Mr. Ulbrich applied to 13 colleges, including Vanderbilt and Washington and Lee, two highly selective campuses, and Wofford College, Furman, Davidson and the College of Charleston. He likes the ratio of women to men: 60 to 40. ''Believe me, people look at that,'' he says. (College officials are trying to attract more men by emphasizing in their publications intercollegiate athletics, new club sports programs and a dual engineering degree.) Mr. Ulbrich says he feels comfortable at Elon. His friend Peter Ustach says he likes the frat parties and frequenting the stores and theaters on nearby Church Street. ''It's like a little bubble,'' he says. 
 With the rush of out-of-staters, will Southern colleges lose their charm and relaxed pace -- the attributes that have attracted so many? Perhaps not. But the influence of origins is being felt. 
 ''Some really Southern students won't go to Emory because of its Northern flavor,'' says Ms. Porter-Shirley.
 Ashwin Rayasam, a sophomore at Elon from Durham, N.C., finds the influx of Northern students unsettling. ''They are straightforward and blunt,'' he says. ''They think it is O.K. even if they are mean. It's like a culture shock in your own country.'' Mr. Rayasam is having lunch with Tracy Corpening, a sophomore from Morganton, N.C. Mr. Rayasam is of Indian descent and Mr. Corpening is African-American; they both say that they feel their minority status here. Elon has a 9 percent minority population; Davidson has 22 percent. 
 ''I feel accepted during the daytime, then, at night they curl up and walk away,'' says Mr. Rayasam, suggesting racism is the cause. 
 Mr. Corpening tries to one-up him. ''I met this girl who hadn't seen a black person since she was 12,'' he says. 
 Weeks later, the high-profile rape case embroiling Duke would give Mr. Corpening another chance to discuss race on campus. The woman who accused three white lacrosse players was a student at the historically black North Carolina Central University, also in Durham and lacking the immense resources and cachet of Duke. (Duke administrators say the incident has had no discernible impact on applications.)
 That white Elon students failed to grasp the David and Goliath quality of the case surprised Mr. Corpening. So did their ignorance about the role of historically black institutions in American education. Mr. Corpening was pleased with class discussions of the incident, though: ''It really didn't divide the community as much as one would expect it to. People were open-minded.'' 
 Mr. Corpening and Mr. Rayasam also think that Elon is trying to work on ''the whole diversity thing.'' 
 Across the lunch table they high-five each other as they recount being asked to appear in a university brochure.

College in New Orleans? Many Apply, and Demur
 THE colleges of New Orleans continue to suffer the effects of Hurricane Katrina. While Tulane's hilltop setting helped it escape the worst of the flooding, some families aren't taking any chances, and fall enrollment is off. Though there were plenty of applicants (20,733), the percentage of accepted students who decided to attend Tulane this fall dropped to 12 percent from 21 percent, and the incoming class has been downsized by 400 students. Loyola University's freshman class is down by 250 students, and the University of New Orleans's by 300. ''The result of the hurricane was more pronounced than anticipated,'' says Richard Whiteside, dean of undergraduate admissions at Tulane, where enrollment is 85 percent out of state. The campus, he says, and ''the areas that students are mostly likely to go to -- uptown, the Garden District, central business district, the French Quarter -- are fully restored and operational.'' 
 Still, that is just a sliver. Economic recovery has been slow, hampered by concerns about the newly repaired levees and the lingering image of Katrina's wrath. 
 The chance to help rebuild the city was the most common hope expressed in Tulane's admissions essays for the fall. Students will get their chance, as the city's institutions are expanding service learning, a teaching strategy that integrates public service with academics, into the curriculum.
 Loyola University, for example, plans to link business students with small-business owners to help them create marketing and business plans for the city's new reality. Freshmen at Tulane are now required to take -- in their first or second year -- one course with a public service component: an expository writing class might work with children in an understaffed middle school to improve their writing; a chemistry class might take samples in once-flooded areas for a database on soil quality. 
 ''Some of it involves actual rebuilding of the physical infrastructure and some involves rebuilding capacity in the community,'' says Ana Lopez, Tulane's associate provost. ''To the degree that the infrastructure was flattened, so was the public schools system, so was the health care industry. So were a thousand different things.'' ABIGAIL SULLIVAN MOORE


CORRECTION-DATE: August 1, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Education Life section on Sunday about a decline in enrollment at colleges in New Orleans, referred imprecisely to Tulane's setting. While some of the campus is on higher ground, which allowed it to escape the worst of the flooding after Hurricane Katrina, it is not on a hilltop.

GRAPHIC: Photos: HISTORIC HOSPITALITY -- Philanthropic Hall, built in 1850, left, serves as a study roost for Davidson students. At Elon's weekly coffee hour, below, students and professors mingle as members of the Morale Committee entertain. (Photographs by Sara D. Davis for The New York Times)
(Illustration by Peter Arkle)(pgs. 18, 19)
NEW GROWTH -- Elon's campus is a bucolic landscape of lakes, brick walks and oak and Bradford pear trees. (Photo by Sara D. Davis for The New York Times)
 PITCHING IN -- Emily Stammer, a Tulane senior, doing hurricane relief at a grade school. (Photo by P. Burch-Celentano/Tulane Publications)(pgs. 20, 21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (92%); ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



609 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Living Large And Healthy, But How Long Can It Go On?

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
Longer life. Less disease. Less disability. The trends have continued for more than a century as humans have become bigger, stronger and healthier. But can they -- will they -- keep going? Or is there some countertrend, obesity or an overuse of medications, perhaps, that will turn the statistics around?
 The questions are serious, but, researchers say, for now there are no easy answers, only lessons in humility as, over and over again in recent years, scientists have seen their best predictions overthrown. 
Life expectancy, for example, has been a real surprise, says Eileen M. Crimmins, a professor of gerontology and demographic research at the University of Southern California. ''When I came of age as a professional, 25 years ago, basically the idea was three score years and 10 is what you get,'' Dr. Crimmins said. Life span was ''this rock, and you can't touch it.''
 ''But,'' she added, ''then we started noticing that in fact mortality is plummeting.'' 
 Will it continue much longer?
 ''It is an extremely controversial area, and the answer is, We don't know,'' said Dr. Richard J. Hodes, director of the National Institute on Aging.
 Some worry, for example, that today's fat children will grow up to be tomorrow's heart disease and diabetes patients, destroying the nation's gains in health and well-being.
 ''It is very legitimate to be concerned about levels of overweight and obesity in kids,'' said David Williamson, a senior biomedical research scientist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. ''But at the same time, those levels of obesity are overlaid on improvements in health in children, which also affect long-term health and longevity.'' 

An Uncertain Future
 The mixed picture has led to disparate views about what is likely to occur.
 S. Jay Olshansky, a professor of epidemiology and biostatistics at the University of Illinois at Chicago, predicted in The New England Journal of Medicine that obesity would lead to so much diabetes and heart disease that life expectancy would ''level off or even decline within the first half of this century.''
 Dr. Olshansky was countered by Samuel H. Preston, a professor of demography at the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. Preston cited the population's overall better health, from childhood on, and said that obesity had already been factored into national projections of life spans and that the projections were that life spans would continue to increase.
 Dana Goldman, director and corporate chairman of health economics at the RAND Corporation, looked at the obesity question from another perspective: disability. In a recent paper in Health Affairs, Dr. Goldman and his colleagues reported that disability rates among young people had begun to increase, although they continued to decline for the elderly. He suspects it is because of obesity and says it does not augur well.
 He said in a telephone interview that the increased number of disabled involved less than 1 percent of young people. That means it is possible that he is seeing a spurious trend resulting from minor changes in reporting practices.
 ''I think of this as the 'storm clouds on the horizon' phenomenon,'' Dr. Goldman said.
 Others remain circumspect. Perhaps obesity will lead to increased disability, some say. While disability is declining over all, said Dr. Richard M. Suzman, director of the office of behavioral and social research programs at the National Institute on Aging, ''if you hadn't had the increase in obesity, would disability have gone down much faster?''
 The problem for now, Dr. Williamson says, is that there is so much concern over obesity that other factors may be ignored.
 He tells of a recent episode that illustrates his point, when he went with some Italian colleagues to see a photography exhibit.
 ''We were looking at pictures of Pennsylvania coal miners in the late 1800's and early 1900's,'' Dr. Williamson said. ''A lot of these people were kids.''
 ''The Italians said to me, 'Oh, look. These kids were so thin.' ''
 ''I said, 'Well, hell yes they were thin. But were they healthy?' '' It is likely that they were poor, malnourished and sick from the coal dust, he added. No wonder they were thin.
 ''It really got me thinking about, gosh, have we gotten so out of touch?'' Dr. Williamson said. Obesity, he said, is a very legitimate concern, but it is not the only health risk. And being thin does not necessarily equate with being healthy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TRENDS (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); OBESITY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ELDER HEALTH (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); GERONTOLOGY (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); BIOETHICS (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); DIABETES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); AGING (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Surveys and Series; Longevity; Weight

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (57%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON AGING (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

PERSON: Gina Kolata

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); NORTHEAST USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



610 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3985 words

HEADLINE: So Big and Healthy Nowadays, Grandpa Wouldn't Know You

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
Valentin Keller enlisted in an all-German unit of the Union Army in Hamilton, Ohio, in 1862. He was 26, a small, slender man, 5 feet 4 inches tall, who had just become a naturalized citizen. He listed his occupation as tailor.
 A year later, Keller was honorably discharged, sick and broken. He had a lung ailment and was so crippled from arthritis in his hips that he could barely walk.
His pension record tells of his suffering. ''His rheumatism is so that he is unable to walk without the aid of crutches and then only with great pain,'' it says. His lungs and his joints never got better, and Keller never worked again.
 He died at age 41 of ''dropsy,'' which probably meant that he had congestive heart failure, a condition not associated with his time in the Army. His 39-year-old wife, Otilia, died a month before him of what her death certificate said was ''exhaustion.'' 
 People of Valentin Keller's era, like those before and after them, expected to develop chronic diseases by their 40's or 50's. Keller's descendants had lung problems, they had heart problems, they had liver problems. They died in their 50's or 60's. 
 Now, though, life has changed. The family's baby boomers are reaching middle age and beyond and are doing fine. 
 ''I feel good,'' says Keller's great-great-great-grandson Craig Keller. At 45, Mr. Keller says he has no health problems, nor does his 45-year-old wife, Sandy. 
 The Keller family illustrates what may prove to be one of the most striking shifts in human existence -- a change from small, relatively weak and sickly people to humans who are so big and robust that their ancestors seem almost unrecognizable.
 New research from around the world has begun to reveal a picture of humans today that is so different from what it was in the past that scientists say they are startled. Over the past 100 years, says one researcher, Robert W. Fogel of the University of Chicago, humans in the industrialized world have undergone ''a form of evolution that is unique not only to humankind, but unique among the 7,000 or so generations of humans who have ever inhabited the earth.''
 The difference does not involve changes in genes, as far as is known, but changes in the human form. It shows up in several ways, from those that are well known and almost taken for granted, like greater heights and longer lives, to ones that are emerging only from comparisons of health records. 
 The biggest surprise emerging from the new studies is that many chronic ailments like heart disease, lung disease and arthritis are occurring an average of 10 to 25 years later than they used to. There is also less disability among older people today, according to a federal study that directly measures it. And that is not just because medical treatments like cataract surgery keep people functioning. Human bodies are simply not breaking down the way they did before. 
 Even the human mind seems improved. The average I.Q. has been increasing for decades, and at least one study found that a person's chances of having dementia in old age appeared to have fallen in recent years.
 The proposed reasons are as unexpected as the changes themselves. Improved medical care is only part of the explanation; studies suggest that the effects seem to have been set in motion by events early in life, even in the womb, that show up in middle and old age.
 ''What happens before the age of 2 has a permanent, lasting effect on your health, and that includes aging,'' said Dr. David J. P. Barker, a professor of medicine at Oregon Health and Science University in Portland and a professor of epidemiology at the University of Southampton in England.
 Each event can touch off others. Less cardiovascular disease, for example, can mean less dementia in old age. The reason is that cardiovascular disease can precipitate mini-strokes, which can cause dementia. Cardiovascular disease is also a suspected risk factor for Alzheimer's disease.
 The effects are not just in the United States. Large and careful studies from Finland, Britain, France, Sweden and the Netherlands all confirm that the same things have happened there; they are also beginning to show up in the underdeveloped world. 
 Of course, there were people in previous generations who lived long and healthy lives, and there are people today whose lives are cut short by disease or who suffer for years with chronic ailments. But on average, the changes, researchers say, are huge.
 Even more obvious differences surprise scientists by the extent of the change.
 In 1900, 13 percent of people who were 65 could expect to see 85. Now, nearly half of 65-year-olds can expect to live that long. 
 People even look different today. American men, for example, are nearly 3 inches taller than they were 100 years ago and about 50 pounds heavier.
 ''We've been transformed,'' Dr. Fogel said. 
 What next? scientists ask. Today's middle-aged people are the first generation to grow up with childhood vaccines and with antibiotics. Early life for them was much better than it was for their parents, whose early life, in turn, was much better than it was for their parents. 
 And if good health and nutrition early in life are major factors in determining health in middle and old age, that bodes well for middle-aged people today. Investigators predict that they may live longer and with less pain and misery than any previous generation. 
 ''Will old age for today's baby boomers be anything like the old age we think we know?'' Dr. Barker asked. ''The answer is no.''

Trying to Change a Pattern
 Craig Keller does not know what to expect of his old age. But he is optimistic by nature, and he knows he has already lived past the life span of his beleaguered ancestor Valentin. He is 5-foot-9, 200 pounds and exuberantly healthy. 
 He grew up in Hamilton, the same town on the Kentucky border where Valentin lived, worshiped and was buried. And he still lives there, working as a court bailiff, married to Sandy, whom he met when they were in second grade. Now, married 25 years, the Kellers have two grown daughters, a lively black dog and no complaints.
 Craig and Sandy Keller had all the advantages of middle-class Americans of their age: childhood vaccines, plenty of food, antibiotics when they fell ill. Now, wanting to stay healthy, they walk in the evenings, try to eat well and rely on their strong faith, which, they say, makes a big difference to their health. And they enjoy life.
 Mr. Keller pulls his wife's tan Chevy Malibu into the driveway of his small, immaculate house on a sidewalk-lined street. It is the same house that he grew up in; he and Mrs. Keller bought it from Mr. Keller's parents 22 years ago. While Mrs. Keller brings out a snack of a homemade cheese ball, crackers, sandwiches, fruit salad and brownies, Mr. Keller settles in to marvel at the contrast between his comfortable life and the lives of his ancestors.
 For him, the idea of falling ill in his late 20's and never working again is unimaginable. He knows, though, that he is nearing the age when many of his ancestors died. His father, Carl D. Keller, a lifelong smoker, developed prostate cancer, then emphysema, and then lung cancer, which killed him at age 65. His father's father, Carl W. Keller, also a smoker, died of cancer of the esophagus just after he turned 69. His grandfather on his mother's side died of cirrhosis of the liver at 55; his grandmother died at 56 of breast cancer.
 ''They never got out of their 50's and 60's,'' Mr. Keller said. ''So that's kind of in the back of your mind.'' He worries about his lungs, given his family history. He had pneumonia once and has had bronchitis.
 But, Mr. Keller reasons, he is so physically different from his ancestors -- he has never smoked and is so much healthier, so much better fed -- that he really thinks he will break the spell. 
 And if exercise is good for health, the Kellers certainly have exercised. Mr. Keller displays a bookcase in their basement, crammed with athletic trophies. Mrs. Keller's are from baton twirling, Mr. Keller's are from baseball, basketball, softball and soccer. Their daughters, 19-year-old Rachel and 22-year-old Kristy, got theirs cheerleading. 
 Mrs. Keller said that when she was her daughters' age, ''I didn't think about my health very much.''
 ''But later in my 30's and toward my 40's,'' she said, ''I started to think about it. You try to eat right, you try to exercise. And you do see your parents with illnesses. And you wonder about yourself. My mom had a quadruple bypass when she was 75, and she had to have a pacemaker after that. She's now in her 80's, but you do wonder.''
 Was it genetic destiny or health habits that caused her mother's heart disease? Mrs. Keller asks herself. Her mother smoked for more than a decade, finally quitting with great difficulty before Mrs. Keller was born. ''She said the Lord helped her,'' Mrs. Keller said.
 Mrs. Keller has never smoked. Concerned about heart disease, she had her cholesterol level tested a few years ago and now takes medication to lower it. She walks at lunch with the women in her office and after dinner with her husband. 
 Her daughter Rachel, petite and quiet with a quick smile, is already thinking about her family's medical history. She worries about heart disease, worries about lung disease. She has already had her cholesterol level measured -- it was normal. And she is shocked when people her age start smoking.
 ''In high school, none of my friends smoked,'' she said. ''They came back from their first year in college, and all of them did.'' 
 ''It's hard to think about getting old when you're young,'' Rachel added. ''But when you see your family members -- my grandpa died of lung cancer, my grandparents on both sides had cancer. So it's on my mind a lot of times.''
 But still, the future is so distant it is almost unfathomable to her. ''I wonder what we're going to be like when we're old,'' she mused. 

Lives Plagued by Illness
 Scientists used to say that the reason people are living so long these days is that medicine is keeping them alive, though debilitated. But studies like one Dr. Fogel directs, using records of of Union Army veterans, have led many to rethink that notion. 
 The study involves a random sample of about 50,000 Union Army veterans. Dr. Fogel compared those men, the first generation to reach age 65 in the 20th century, with people born more recently.
 The researchers focused on common diseases that are diagnosed in pretty much the same way now as they were in the last century. So they looked at ailments like arthritis, back pain and various kinds of heart disease that can be detected by listening to the heart.
 The first surprise was just how sick people were, and for how long. 
 Instead of inferring health from causes of death on death certificates, Dr. Fogel and his colleagues looked at health throughout life. They used the daily military history of each regiment in which each veteran served, which showed who was sick and for how long; census manuscripts; public health records; pension records; doctors' certificates showing the results of periodic examinations of the pensioners; and death certificates.
 They discovered that almost everyone of the Civil War generation was plagued by life-sapping illnesses, suffering for decades. And these were not some unusual subset of American men -- 65 percent of the male population ages 18 to 25 signed up to serve in the Union Army. ''They presumably thought they were fit enough to serve,'' Dr. Fogel said.
 Even teenagers were ill. Eighty percent of the male population ages 16 to 19 tried to sign up for the Union Army in 1861, but one out of six was rejected because he was deemed disabled. 
 And the Union Army was not very picky. ''Incontinence of urine alone is not grounds for dismissal,'' said Dora Costa, an M.I.T. economist who works with Dr. Fogel, quoting from the regulations. A man who was blind in his right eye was disqualified from serving because that was his musket eye. But, Dr. Costa said, ''blindness in the left eye was O.K.'' 
 After the war ended, as the veterans entered middle age, they were rarely spared chronic ailments.
 ''In the pension records there were descriptions of hernias as big as grapefruits,'' Dr. Costa said. ''They were held in by a truss. These guys were continuing to work although they clearly were in a lot of pain. They just had to cope.''
 Eighty percent had heart disease by the time they were 60, compared with less than 50 percent today. By ages 65 to 74, 55 percent of the Union Army veterans had back problems. The comparable figure today is 35 percent.
 The steadily improving health of recent generations shows up in population after population and country after country. But these findings raise a fundamental question, Dr. Costa said.
 ''The question is, O.K., there are these differences, and yes, they are big. But why?'' she said. 
 ''That's the million-dollar question,'' said David M. Cutler, a health economist at Harvard. ''Maybe it's the trillion-dollar question. And there is not a received answer that everybody agrees with.''

Outgrowing the Past
 Don Hotchkiss, a civil engineer in Las Vegas and a descendant of Civil War veterans, is an avid Civil War re-enactor. Early on, he and his brother tried to sleep in an exact replica of one of the old tents.
 It was too small, Mr. Hotchkiss said. He is six feet tall and stocky. His brother, a police officer in Phoenix, is thinner, but 6-foot-2. The tents were made for men who were average size then. ''In the past 145 years, we've ballooned up,'' Mr. Hotchkiss said.
 At a recent meeting of a Las Vegas chapter of the Sons of Confederate Veterans, eight burly men crowded into a library meeting room. All had experienced the equivalent of the Civil War tent problem.
 ''At the re-enactments, all the directors, all the costume directors say the re-enactors are just too darn big,'' said George McClendon, a hefty 67-year-old retired airline pilot.
 Mr. McClendon is right. Men living in the Civil War era had an average height of 5-foot-7 and weighed an average of 147 pounds. That translates into a body mass index of 23, well within the range deemed ''normal.'' Today, men average 5-foot-9 1/2 and weigh an average of 191 pounds, giving them an average body mass index of 28.2, overweight and edging toward obesity.
 Those changes, along with the great improvements in general health and life expectancy in recent years, intrigued Dr. Costa. Common chronic diseases -- respiratory problems, valvular heart disease, arteriosclerosis, and joint and back problems -- have been declining by about 0.7 percent a year since the turn of the 20th century. And when they do occur, they emerge at older ages and are less severe. 
 The reasons, she and others are finding, seem to have a lot to do with conditions early in life. Poor nutrition in early years is associated with short stature and lifelong ill health, and until recently, food was expensive in the United States and Europe.
 Dr. Fogel and Dr. Costa looked at data on height and body mass index among Union Army veterans who were 65 and older in 1910 and veterans of World War II who were that age in the 1980's. Their data relating size to health led them to a prediction: the World War II veterans should have had 35 percent less chronic disease than the Union Army veterans. That, they said, is exactly what happened.
 They also found that diseases early in life left people predisposed to chronic illnesses when they grew older. 
 ''Suppose you were a survivor of typhoid or tuberculosis,'' Dr. Fogel said. ''What would that do to aging?'' It turned out, he said, that the number of chronic illnesses at age 50 was much higher in that group. ''Something is being undermined,'' he said. ''Even the cancer rates were higher. Ye gods. We never would have suspected that.''
 Men who had respiratory infections or measles tended to develop chronic lung disease decades later. Malaria often led to arthritis. Men who survived rheumatic fever later developed diseased heart valves. 
 And stressful occupations added to the burden on the body.
 People would work until they died or were so disabled that they could not continue, Dr. Fogel said. ''In 1890, nearly everyone died on the job, and if they lived long enough not to die on the job, the average age of retirement was 85,'' he said. Now the average age is 62.
 A century ago, most people were farmers, laborers or artisans who were exposed constantly to dust and fumes, Dr. Costa said. ''I think there is just this long-term scarring.''

Searching for Answers
 Dr. Barker of Oregon Health and Science University is intrigued by the puzzle of who gets what illness, and when.
 ''Why do some people get heart disease and strokes and others don't?'' he said. ''It's very clear that current ideas about adult lifestyles go only a small way toward explaining this. You can say that it's genes if you want to cease thinking about it. Or you can say, When do people become vulnerable during development? Once you have that thought, it opens up a whole new world.''
 It is a world that obsesses Dr. Barker. Animal studies and data that he and others have been gathering have convinced him that health in middle age can be determined in fetal life and in the first two years after birth.
 His work has been controversial. Some say that other factors, like poverty, may really be responsible. But Dr. Barker has also won over many scientists.
 In one study, he examined health records of 8,760 people born in Helsinki from 1933 to 1944. Those whose birth weight was below about six and a half pounds and who were thin for the first two years of life, with a body mass index of 17 or less, had more heart disease as adults.
 Another study, of 15,000 Swedish men and women born from 1915 to 1929, found the same thing. So did a study of babies born to women who were pregnant during the Dutch famine, known as the Hunger Winter, in World War II. 
 That famine lasted from November 1944 until May 1945. Women were eating as little as 400 to 800 calories a day, and a sixth of their babies died before birth or shortly afterward. But those who survived seemed fine, says Tessa J. Roseboom, an epidemiologist at the University of Amsterdam, who studied 2,254 people born at one Dutch hospital before, during and after the famine. Even their birth weights were normal.
 But now those babies are reaching late middle age, and they are starting to get chronic diseases at a much higher rate than normal, Dr. Roseboom is finding. Their heart disease rate is almost triple that of people born before or after the famine. They have more diabetes. They have more kidney disease.
 That is no surprise, Dr. Barker says. Much of the body is complete before birth, he explains, so a baby born to a pregnant woman who is starved or ill may start life with a predisposition to diseases that do not emerge until middle age.
 The middle-aged people born during the famine also say they just do not feel well. Twice as many rated their health as poor, 10 percent compared with 5 percent of those born before or after the famine.
 ''We asked them whether they felt healthy,'' Dr. Roseboom said. ''The answer to that tends to be highly predictive of future mortality.''
 But not everyone was convinced by what has come to be known as the Barker hypothesis, the idea that events very early in life affect health and well-being in middle and old age. One who looked askance was Douglas V. Almond, an economist at Columbia University. 
 Dr. Almond had a problem with the studies. They were not of randomly selected populations, he said, making it hard to know if other factors had contributed to the health effects. He wanted to see a rigorous test -- a sickness or a deprivation that affected everyone, rich and poor, educated and not, and then went away. Then he realized there had been such an event: the 1918 flu. 
 The flu pandemic arrived in the United States in October 1918 and was gone by January 1919, afflicting a third of the pregnant women in the United States. What happened to their children? Dr. Almond asked. 
 He compared two populations: those whose mothers were pregnant during the flu epidemic and those whose mothers were pregnant shortly before or shortly after the epidemic. 
 To his astonishment, Dr. Almond found that the children of women who were pregnant during the influenza epidemic had more illness, especially diabetes, for which the incidence was 20 percent higher by age 61. They also got less education -- they were 15 percent less likely to graduate from high school. The men's incomes were 5 percent to 7 percent lower, and the families were more likely to receive public assistance. 
 The effects, Dr. Almond said, occurred in whites and nonwhites, in rich and poor, in men and women. He convinced himself, he said, that there was something to the Barker hypothesis.
 Craig Keller hopes it is true. He looks back at the hard life of his ancestors, even those of his great-grandfather and his grandfather, working as painters, exposed to fumes. And, of course, there was poor Valentin Keller, his Civil War ancestor, his health ruined by the time he was 30. 
 Today, Mr. Keller says, he is big and healthy, almost despite himself. He would like to think it is because he tries to live well, but he is not so sure, especially when he hears about what Dr. Barker and Dr. Fogel and the others have found. Maybe it was his good fortune to have been born to a healthy mother and to be well fed and vaccinated.
 ''I don't know if we have as much control as we think we do,'' he said. 

The New Age
 This is the first article in a series looking at the science of aging. Other articles will explore the genetics of aging, body image and frailty, and who ages well and why.
 A video profile of how one Ohio family is aging differently from its ancestors is online at nytimes.com/health.

 1860's: 29%
 1994: 10%

JOINT PROBLEMS
1860's: 45%
1994: 20%

BACK PROBLEMS
1860's: 39%
 1994: 32%

PARALYSIS
1860's: 5%
 1994: 1%

DEAF
1860's: 3%
 1994: 3%

VALVULAR HEART DISEASE
 1860's: 19%
 1980: 2%
(latest data available)

HEART MURMUR
1860's: 28%
 1994: 2%

DECREASED BREATHING SOUNDS
Includes air or fluid around lungs
1860's: 12%
 1994: 5%

ABNORMAL BREATHING SOUNDS
Causes include emphysema, asthma, pneumonia
1860's: 20%
1994: 3%

(Source by Dora Costa, M.I.T.)(pg. 18)

Graph: Longer Lives, Larger Bodies
In little more than a century, Americans have undergone remarkable growth in longevity and form.

LIFE EXPECTANCY FOR THOSE AGE 20*
People Today Live Longer

Graph tracks life expectancy for those age 20 since 1850.

*Starting at age 20 eliminates the high infant and childhood mortality rates that skew life expectancy numbers.

PERCENT OF PEOPLE STILL LIVING AT EACH AGE

Graph tracks percent of people still lving at each age since 1900.

In 1900, 48% of those who would be 60 years old were still alive. In 2003, 88% were.

AVERAGE NUMBER OF YEARS LEFT TO LIVE BY AGE

Graph tracks average number of years left to live by age since 1900.

In 1900, people age 50 could expect to live 21 more years. In 2003, they could expect to live 31 years longer.

Life expectancy data before 1930 only from states that had full death registration systems. The data is for men and women combined.

AVERAGE ADULT MALE
And They Look Different

1850: 5 feet 7.4 inches and 146 pounds
2000: 5 feet 9.5 inches and 191 pounds

AVERAGE MALE ADULT HEIGHT

Graph tracks average male adult height since 1850.

AVERAGE MALE ADULT WEIGHT

Graph tracks average male adult weight since 1850.

Height and weight data before 1950 come from military enrollment numbers, and similar data for women do not exist.

(Sources by National Center for Health Statistics; National Vital Statistics System; Dora Costa, M.I.T.; Richard H. Steckel, Ohio State University; Center on the Economics and Demography of Aging, University of California, Berkeley)(pg. 19)

GRAPHIC: Photos: AN INEXACT FIT -- A re-enactor dressed as a Union soldier in his replica tent in Vista, Calif., in early July. Civil War tents were designed to accommodate shorter combatants. (Photo by Sandy Huffaker for The New York Times)(pg. 18)
THE CURRENT GENERATIONS -- The 21st-century Keller family. Craig and Sandy are seated at center, with their daughters Kristy Harden, left, and Rachel. In the rear from left are Kim Werk, Craig's sister
Dennis, his brother
 and Priscilla Keller Reynolds, his mother. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 19)Chart: ''The Latest Model''One American differs from his Civil War ancestor.George Harris Hotchkiss(1842-1909)5'7'' 150 lbs.A mechanic and farmer, he suffered from sun stroke and rheumatism and was nearly blind in his right eye before dying at 67 from exhaustion.Don Leroy Hotchkiss(1954-)6'0'' 280 lbs.A 52-year-old engineer, Don has had no health problems. On average, a man Don's age can expect to live 80.6 years, although his size could slightly decrease his lifespan.(pg. 1)Chart: ''People Today Have Fewer Chronic Illnesses''From surveys of Union Army veterans (1860's) and recent National Institutes of Health surveysWhite menages 50-64DIFFICULTY BENDING1860's: 44%1994: 8%DIFFICULTY WALKING

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); CHRONIC DISEASES (89%); HEART DISEASE (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); ARTHRITIS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (88%); RESEARCH REPORTS (86%); MEDICAL RECORDS (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); BABY BOOMERS (65%); SCIENCE NEWS (61%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (60%) Medicine and Health; Aged; Longevity; Surveys and Series; Third World and Developing Countries; Height (Stature); Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%)

PERSON: Gina Kolata

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) OHIO, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



611 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: AUDIT FINDS U.S. HID ACTUAL COST OF IRAQ PROJECTS

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, July 29 

 BODY:
The State Department agency in charge of $1.4 billion in reconstruction money in Iraq used an accounting shell game to hide ballooning cost overruns on its projects there and knowingly withheld information on schedule delays from Congress, a federal audit released late Friday has found.
 The agency hid construction overruns by listing them as overhead or administrative costs, according to the audit, written by the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, an independent office that reports to Congress, the Pentagon and the State Department. 
 Called the United States Agency for International Development, or A.I.D., the agency administers foreign aid projects around the world. It has been working in Iraq on reconstruction since shortly after the 2003 invasion.
 The report by the inspector general's office does not give a full accounting of all projects financed by the agency's $1.4 billion budget, but cites several examples. 
 The findings appeared in an audit of a children's hospital in Basra, but they referred to the wider reconstruction activities of the development agency in Iraq. American and Iraqi officials reported this week that the State Department planned to drop Bechtel, its contractor on that project, as signs of budget and scheduling problems began to surface.
 The United States Embassy in Baghdad referred questions about the audit to the State Department in Washington, where a spokesman, Justin Higgins, said Saturday, ''We have not yet had a chance to fully review this report, but certainly will consider it carefully, as we do all the findings of the inspector general.'' 
 Bechtel has said that because of the deteriorating security in Basra, the hospital project could not be completed as envisioned. But Mr. Higgins said: ''Despite the challenges, we are committed to completing this project so that sick children in Basra can receive the medical help they need. The necessary funding is now in place to ensure that will happen.''
 In March 2005, A.I.D. asked the Iraq Reconstruction and Management Office at the United States Embassy in Baghdad for permission to downsize some projects to ease widespread financing problems. In its request, it said that it had to ''absorb greatly increased construction costs'' at the Basra hospital and that it would make a modest shift of priorities and reduce ''contractor overhead'' on the project. 
 The embassy office approved the request. But the audit found that the agency interpreted the document as permission to change reporting of costs across its program. 
 Referring to the embassy office's approval, the inspector general wrote, ''The memorandum was not intended to give U.S.A.I.D. blanket permission to change the reporting of all indirect costs.'' 
 The hospital's construction budget was $50 million. By April of this year, Bechtel had told the aid agency that because of escalating costs for security and other problems, the project would actually cost $98 million to complete. But in an official report to Congress that month, the agency ''was reporting the hospital project cost as $50 million,'' the inspector general wrote in his report.
 The rest was reclassified as overhead, or ''indirect costs.'' According to a contracting officer at the agency who was cited in the report, the agency ''did not report these costs so it could stay within the $50 million authorization.''
 ''We find the entire agreement unclear,'' the inspector general wrote of the A.I.D. request approved by the embassy. ''The document states that hospital project cost increases would be offset by reducing contractor overhead allocated to the project, but project reports for the period show no effort to reduce overhead.'' 
 The report said it suspected that other unreported costs on the hospital could drive the tab even higher. In another case cited in the report, a power station project in Musayyib, the direct construction cost cited by the development agency was $6.6 million, while the overhead cost was $27.6 million.
 One result is that the project's overhead, a figure that normally runs to a maximum of 30 percent, was a stunning 418 percent.
 The figures were even adjusted in the opposite direction when that helped the agency balance its books, the inspector general found. On an electricity project at the Baghdad South power station, direct construction costs were reported by the agency as $164.3 million and indirect or overhead costs as $1.4 million.
 That is just 0.8 percent overhead in a country where security costs are often staggering. A contracting officer told the inspector general that the agency adjusted the figures ''to stay within the authorization for each project.''
 The overall effect, the report said, was a ''serious misstatement of hospital project costs.'' The true cost could rise as high as $169.5 million, even after accounting for at least $30 million pledged for medical equipment by a charitable organization.
 The inspector general also found that the agency had not reported known schedule delays to Congress. On March 26, 2006, Bechtel informed the agency that the hospital project was 273 days behind, the inspector general wrote. But in its April report to Congress on the status of all projects, ''U.S.A.I.D. reported no problems with the project schedule.''
 In a letter responding to the inspector general's findings, Joseph A. Saloom, the newly appointed director of the reconstruction office at the United States Embassy, said he would take steps to improve the reporting of the costs of reconstruction projects in Iraq. Mr. Saloom took little exception to the main findings.
 In the letter, Mr. Saloom said his office had been given new powers by the American ambassador in Baghdad, Zalmay Khalilzad, to request clear financing information on American reconstruction projects. Mr. Saloom wrote that he agreed with the inspector general's conclusion that this shift would help ''preclude surprises such as occurred on the Basra hospital project.''
 ''The U.S. Mission agrees that accurate monitoring of projects requires allocating indirect costs in a systematic way that reflects accurately the true indirect costs attributable to specific activities and projects, such as a Basra children's hospital,'' Mr. Saloom wrote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDITS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HOSPITALS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (77%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); TERRORISM (59%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Building (Construction); Foreign Aid; Defense Contracts; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Accounting and Accountants; Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Children and Youth

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%) Agency for International Development; Bechtel Corp; State Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (85%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (85%)

PERSON: James Glanz

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq; Basra (Iraq); Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



612 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1828 words

HEADLINE: Disowning Conservative Politics, Evangelical Pastor Rattles Flock

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

DATELINE: MAPLEWOOD, Minn. 

 BODY:
Like most pastors who lead thriving evangelical megachurches, the Rev. Gregory A. Boyd was asked frequently to give his blessing -- and the church's -- to conservative political candidates and causes. 
 The requests came from church members and visitors alike: Would he please announce a rally against gay marriage during services? Would he introduce a politician from the pulpit? Could members set up a table in the lobby promoting their anti-abortion work? Would the church distribute ''voters' guides'' that all but endorsed Republican candidates? And with the country at war, please couldn't the church hang an American flag in the sanctuary?
After refusing each time, Mr. Boyd finally became fed up, he said. Before the last presidential election, he preached six sermons called ''The Cross and the Sword'' in which he said the church should steer clear of politics, give up moralizing on sexual issues, stop claiming the United States as a ''Christian nation'' and stop glorifying American military campaigns. 
 ''When the church wins the culture wars, it inevitably loses,'' Mr. Boyd preached. ''When it conquers the world, it becomes the world. When you put your trust in the sword, you lose the cross.'' 
 Mr. Boyd says he is no liberal. He is opposed to abortion and thinks homosexuality is not God's ideal. The response from his congregation at Woodland Hills Church here in suburban St. Paul -- packed mostly with politically and theologically conservative, middle-class evangelicals -- was passionate. Some members walked out of a sermon and never returned. By the time the dust had settled, Woodland Hills, which Mr. Boyd founded in 1992, had lost about 1,000 of its 5,000 members.
 But there were also congregants who thanked Mr. Boyd, telling him they were moved to tears to hear him voice concerns they had been too afraid to share. 
 ''Most of my friends are believers,'' said Shannon Staiger, a psychotherapist and church member, ''and they think if you're a believer, you'll vote for Bush. And it's scary to go against that.'' 
 Sermons like Mr. Boyd's are hardly typical in today's evangelical churches. But the upheaval at Woodland Hills is an example of the internal debates now going on in some evangelical colleges, magazines and churches. A common concern is that the Christian message is being compromised by the tendency to tie evangelical Christianity to the Republican Party and American nationalism, especially through the war in Iraq. 
 At least six books on this theme have been published recently, some by Christian publishing houses. Randall Balmer, a religion professor at Barnard College and an evangelical, has written ''Thy Kingdom Come: How the Religious Right Distorts the Faith and Threatens America -- an Evangelical's Lament.'' 
 And Mr. Boyd has a new book out, ''The Myth of a Christian Nation: How the Quest for Political Power Is Destroying the Church,'' which is based on his sermons. 
 ''There is a lot of discontent brewing,'' said Brian D. McLaren, the founding pastor at Cedar Ridge Community Church in Gaithersburg, Md., and a leader in the evangelical movement known as the ''emerging church,'' which is at the forefront of challenging the more politicized evangelical establishment.
 ''More and more people are saying this has gone too far -- the dominance of the evangelical identity by the religious right,'' Mr. McLaren said. ''You cannot say the word 'Jesus' in 2006 without having an awful lot of baggage going along with it. You can't say the word 'Christian,' and you certainly can't say the word 'evangelical' without it now raising connotations and a certain cringe factor in people. 
 ''Because people think, 'Oh no, what is going to come next is homosexual bashing, or pro-war rhetoric, or complaining about 'activist judges.' ''
 Mr. Boyd said he had cleared his sermons with the church's board, but his words left some in his congregation stunned. Some said that he was disrespecting President Bush and the military, that he was soft on abortion or telling them not to vote. 
 ''When we joined years ago, Greg was a conservative speaker,'' said William Berggren, a lawyer who joined the church with his wife six years ago. ''But we totally disagreed with him on this. You can't be a Christian and ignore actions that you feel are wrong. A case in point is the abortion issue. If the church were awake when abortion was passed in the 70's, it wouldn't have happened. But the church was asleep.''
 Mr. Boyd, 49, who preaches in blue jeans and rumpled plaid shirts, leads a church that occupies a squat block-long building that was once a home improvement chain store. 
 The church grew from 40 members in 12 years, based in no small part on Mr. Boyd's draw as an electrifying preacher who stuck closely to Scripture. He has degrees from Yale Divinity School and Princeton Theological Seminary, and he taught theology at Bethel College in St. Paul, where he created a controversy a few years ago by questioning whether God fully knew the future. Some pastors in his own denomination, the Baptist General Conference, mounted an effort to evict Mr. Boyd from the denomination and his teaching post, but he won that battle. 
 He is known among evangelicals for a bestselling book, ''Letters From a Skeptic,'' based on correspondence with his father, a leftist union organizer and a lifelong agnostic -- an exchange that eventually persuaded his father to embrace Christianity. 
 Mr. Boyd said he never intended his sermons to be taken as merely a critique of the Republican Party or the religious right. He refuses to share his party affiliation, or whether he has one, for that reason. He said there were Christians on both the left and the right who had turned politics and patriotism into ''idolatry.''
 He said he first became alarmed while visiting another megachurch's worship service on a Fourth of July years ago. The service finished with the chorus singing ''God Bless America'' and a video of fighter jets flying over a hill silhouetted with crosses. 
 ''I thought to myself, 'What just happened? Fighter jets mixed up with the cross?' '' he said in an interview.
 Patriotic displays are still a mainstay in some evangelical churches. Across town from Mr. Boyd's church, the sanctuary of North Heights Lutheran Church was draped in bunting on the Sunday before the Fourth of July this year for a ''freedom celebration.'' Military veterans and flag twirlers paraded into the sanctuary, an enormous American flag rose slowly behind the stage, and a Marine major who had served in Afghanistan preached that the military was spending ''your hard-earned money'' on good causes. 
 In his six sermons, Mr. Boyd laid out a broad argument that the role of Christians was not to seek ''power over'' others -- by controlling governments, passing legislation or fighting wars. Christians should instead seek to have ''power under'' others -- ''winning people's hearts'' by sacrificing for those in need, as Jesus did, Mr. Boyd said.
 ''America wasn't founded as a theocracy,'' he said. ''America was founded by people trying to escape theocracies. Never in history have we had a Christian theocracy where it wasn't bloody and barbaric. That's why our Constitution wisely put in a separation of church and state. 
 ''I am sorry to tell you,'' he continued, ''that America is not the light of the world and the hope of the world. The light of the world and the hope of the world is Jesus Christ.''
 Mr. Boyd lambasted the ''hypocrisy and pettiness'' of Christians who focus on ''sexual issues'' like homosexuality, abortion or Janet Jackson's breast-revealing performance at the Super Bowl halftime show. He said Christians these days were constantly outraged about sex and perceived violations of their rights to display their faith in public. 
 ''Those are the two buttons to push if you want to get Christians to act,'' he said. ''And those are the two buttons Jesus never pushed.'' 
 Some Woodland Hills members said they applauded the sermons because they had resolved their conflicted feelings. David Churchill, a truck driver for U.P.S. and a Teamster for 26 years, said he had been ''raised in a religious-right home'' but was torn between the Republican expectations of faith and family and the Democratic expectations of his union.
 When Mr. Boyd preached his sermons, ''it was liberating to me,'' Mr. Churchill said. 
 Mr. Boyd gave his sermons while his church was in the midst of a $7 million fund-raising campaign. But only $4 million came in, and 7 of the more than 50 staff members were laid off, he said.
 Mary Van Sickle, the family pastor at Woodland Hills, said she lost 20 volunteers who had been the backbone of the church's Sunday school. 
 ''They said, 'You're not doing what the church is supposed to be doing, which is supporting the Republican way,' '' she said. ''It was some of my best volunteers.'' 
 The Rev. Paul Eddy, a theology professor at Bethel College and the teaching pastor at Woodland Hills, said: ''Greg is an anomaly in the megachurch world. He didn't give a whit about church leadership, never read a book about church growth. His biggest fear is that people will think that all church is is a weekend carnival, with people liking the worship, the music, his speaking, and that's it.'' 
 In the end, those who left tended to be white, middle-class suburbanites, church staff members said. In their place, the church has added more members who live in the surrounding community -- African-Americans, Hispanics and Hmong immigrants from Laos. 
 This suits Mr. Boyd. His vision for his church is an ethnically and economically diverse congregation that exemplifies Jesus' teachings by its members' actions. He, his wife and three other families from the church moved from the suburbs three years ago to a predominantly black neighborhood in St. Paul.
 Mr. Boyd now says of the upheaval: ''I don't regret any aspect of it at all. It was a defining moment for us. We let go of something we were never called to be. We just didn't know the price we were going to pay for doing it.'' 
 His congregation of about 4,000 is still digesting his message. Mr. Boyd arranged a forum on a recent Wednesday night to allow members to sound off on his new book. The reception was warm, but many of the 56 questions submitted in writing were pointed: Isn't abortion an evil that Christians should prevent? Are you saying Christians should not join the military? How can Christians possibly have ''power under'' Osama bin Laden? Didn't the church play an enormously positive role in the civil rights movement? 
 One woman asked: ''So why NOT us? If we contain the wisdom and grace and love and creativity of Jesus, why shouldn't we be the ones involved in politics and setting laws?''
 Mr. Boyd responded: ''I don't think there's a particular angle we have on society that others lack. All good, decent people want good and order and justice. Just don't slap the label 'Christian' on it.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday about the Rev. Gregory A. Boyd, a Minnesota pastor who has preached against church involvement in politics, included an outdated reference to the school where he taught and where the Rev. Paul Eddy, a theology professor who called Mr. Boyd ''an anomaly in the megachurch world'' teaches. It is Bethel University, not Bethel College. (The name was changed in 2004.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''We let go of something we were never called to be,'' Mr. Boyd said.
Most members of Woodland Hills Church in St. Paul stayed after the Rev. Gregory A. Boyd urged an end to sexual moralizing and military glorification and said America should not be proclaimed a ''Christian nation.'' (Photographs by Bill Alkofer for The New York Times)(pg. 23)
 The Rev. Gregory A. Boyd leads a congregation of about 4,000. (Photo by Bill Alkofer for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (97%); RELIGION (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); ABORTION (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); CHURCH & STATE (73%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (72%); PUBLISHING (63%); BOOK PUBLISHING (62%); LITERATURE (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); MARRIAGE (57%) Christians and Christianity; Evangelical Movement; Presidential Election of 2004; Books and Literature; Church-State Relations; Christians and Christianity; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: Woodland Hills Church (Maplewood, Minn) 

PERSON: Laurie Goodstein; Gregory A (Rev) Boyd; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) Maplewood (Minn)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



613 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; HOSTILITIES IN THE MIDEAST: STRATEGY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: Iran Hangs in Suspense as War Offers New Strength, and Sudden Weakness

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Nazila Fathi contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: TEHRAN, July 29 

 BODY:
These should be heady days for Iran's leaders. Hezbollah, widely regarded as its proxy force in Lebanon, continues to rain down rockets on Israel despite 17 days of punishing airstrikes. Hezbollah's leader is a hero of the Arab world, and Iran is basking in the reflected glory. 
 Yet this capital is unusually tense. Officials, former officials and analysts say that it is too dangerous even to discuss the crisis. In newspapers, the slightest questioning of support for Hezbollah has been attacked as unpatriotic, pro-Zionist and anti-Islamic.
As the war in Lebanon grinds on, Iranian officials cannot seem to decide whether Iran will emerge stronger -- or unexpectedly weakened. 
 They are increasingly confident of an ideological triumph. But they also believe the war itself has already harmed Hezbollah's strength as a military deterrent for Iran on the Israeli border. 
 And foreign policy experts and former government officials said that Iran had come to view Israel's attack on Lebanon as a proxy offensive. They now view the war as the new front line in the decades-old conflict with Washington.
 ''They are worried that what's happened in Lebanon to Hezbollah is the United States' revenge against Iran,'' said Hamidreza Jalaipour, a sociologist and former government official. ''The way they are attacking them and fighting against them is like waging a war against Iran.'' 
 Iran's relationship to Hezbollah is both strategic and ideological. The Islamic Revolution in 1979 was viewed by its clerical leaders as a part of a pan-Muslim movement. Linking up with the Shiite Muslims of southern Lebanon was part of Iran's efforts to spread its ideological influence. But in building up Hezbollah, the ideological motivation fused with a practical desire to put a force on Israel's northern border.
 No matter how this conflict is resolved, Iranian officials already see their strategic military strength diminished, said the policy experts, former officials and one official with close ties to the highest levels of government. Even if a cease-fire takes hold, and Hezbollah retains some military ability, a Lebanese public eager for peace may act as a serious check. 
 In the past, Iran believed that Israel might pause before attacking it because they would assume Hezbollah would assault the northern border. If Hezbollah emerges weaker, or restrained militarily because of domestic politics, Iran feels it may be more vulnerable. 
 ''This was God's gift to Israel,'' said Nasser Hadian, a political science professor at Tehran University and an expert in Iranian foreign policy. ''Hezbollah gave them the golden opportunity to attack.''
 He said that Iran does not have the military ability at home to fight an aggressive offensive war against Israel from so far away. He said its only offensive tool would be a missile, which he said would be of limited effect and accuracy.
 ''If Israel attacked us tomorrow, what are we going to do?'' he said.
 Analysts and former government officials said Iran has focused on trying to preserve Hezbollah's influence and deterrence capability. They said Iran has counseled Hezbollah not to show its full military ability to preserve Israeli uncertainty. That may prove difficult for Hezbollah to agree to, given that it is in the midst of a war, and may lead to a divergence of agendas, analysts and former government officials said.
 Iran has also worked hard to convince the Lebanese, and Muslims around the world, that Hezbollah is not to blame for the destruction in Lebanon and that it is a legitimate resistance force. That is viewed here as essential to preserve Hezbollah's influence in Lebanon after the war, and with it Iran's in the region. 
 Even as Iranian officials fret about the potential risks, they are savoring the ideological boost. If Hezbollah emerges as the primary political force in Lebanon, Arab governments, which have not pressed hard for a cease-fire, may find that in order to deal with Hezbollah they will have to work through Iran.
 One foreign policy expert who is a sometime consultant to the government said that if Hezbollah continued to lob missiles into Israel for another six months to a year, the resulting turmoil in the region could make Iran a power to reckon with in Lebanon as it is in Iraq. 
 The expert, a professor of international relations at a university in Tehran who is an occasional consultant to the foreign ministry, spoke on the condition he not be identified because he was afraid of retribution. 
 On the domestic front, the war has promoted officials here to begin to assess how the outcome might require that they retool policies and strategies involving everything from the nuclear issue to diplomatic relations with Arab countries. 
 Power in Iran is not concentrated in any one hand, not even that of the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, but is spread out among many levels. Major decisions, like the nuclear policy, are often a result of consultation and compromise among many forces among Iran's clerical and political elite. 
 Confidence in Iran's ideological gains since the war broke out has buoyed Iran's hard-liners, and has influenced an internal debate that has been running since the revolution, over whether Iran should focus on domestic economic and political development or on its role as a pan-Islamic leader hoping to spread its revolutionary ideas, political analysts here said.
 Even before the war, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was trying to position Iran as the leader of the pan-Muslim world, to unite all Muslims, whether Arabs or Indonesians or Indians, behind the leadership of Tehran. The analysts said that Mr. Ahmadinejad, who was elected on a populist economic message, is the most ideologically driven of Iran's presidents since the revolution. 
 ''Iran is now playing to its strength,'' said a foreign policy expert affiliated with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who like many people here said he was afraid to be identified for fear of retribution.
 Iran is the only nation in the Muslim world controlled by members of the Shiite sect of Islam, and its push to be a regional leader had raised concerns among the area's Sunni leadership.
 Iran has used the war in Lebanon to try to prove that talk of a Shiite threat is a fiction created by Arab leaders and Americans seeking to maintain power in the hands of American friends in Cairo, Amman and Riyadh. 
 It has pointed to Israel's destruction of Lebanon's infrastructure to promote the idea that this war is not against Hezbollah but against all Muslims. And Iran's leaders have sought to burnish their own image, at the expense of their Sunni rivals.
 ''It is inconceivable for anyone who calls himself a Muslim and who heads an Islamic state to maintain relations under the table with the regime that occupied Jerusalem,'' said President Ahmadinejad in an interview on Iranian television this week, in a clear dig against governments like Egypt's. ''He cannot take pleasure in the killing of Muslims yet present himself as a Muslim. This is inconceivable, and must be exposed. Allah willing, it will.''
 He posed an even more direct challenge in comments broadcast last week on Iranian television: ''A bunch of people with no honor rule some countries in the region. People are being killed before their eyes, while they play games, giving compliments to one another. They think they can let time go by until this issue is forgotten, and then return to the scene. No, they are mistaken.''
 The moment Hezbollah captured two Israeli soldiers, the United States and Israel complained that Iran and its ally, Syria, played a role in sparking the crisis. 
 Both have denied any advance knowledge of Hezbollah's raid on July 12. It is hard to know here if analysts and former officials say they accept that notion because they believe it -- or because they are afraid to contradict the government. 
 Only one influential person, Muhammad Atrianfar, publisher of the newspaper Shargh, said in an interview that Hezbollah would never stage such a significant operation without at least notifying Tehran.
 ''Officially, Iran is not aware of what Hezbollah does,'' he said. ''Logically and unofficially Iran is always aware. The reason is clear, because of all that Iran has done for Hezbollah. Hezbollah is Iran in Lebanon. When Iran looks at Hezbollah, it sees Iran.''
 In fact, the accepted wisdom here is that the Israeli assault was pre-planned, and that the capture of the two soldiers was simply its excuse. Further, people here believe that the true target was Tehran, and that Israel, the United States and Arab governments in Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Jordan are hoping to roll back Iran's influence in the region. 
 ''They want to cut one of Iran's arms,'' said the Iranian official with close personal ties to the highest levels of government.
 ''Israel and the U.S. knew that as long as Hamas and Hezbollah were there, confronting Iran would be costly,'' said Mohsen Rezai, former head of the Revolutionary Guards, said in an interview with the Baztab website. ''So, to deal with Iran, they first want to eliminate forces close to Iran that are in Lebanon and Palestine.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A billboard of Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, the Hezbollah leader, dominates a Tehran street. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (94%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); TERRORISM (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) United States International Relations; Public Opinion; Terrorism

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (94%) Hezbollah

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

PERSON: HASSAN NASRALLAH (58%) Michael Slackman

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) ISRAEL (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); LEBANON (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (73%) Israel; Lebanon ; Iran; Israel

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



614 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: So Much Gold, but Andean Farmers See Big Risks, Too 

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: ALTO DEL CARMEN, Chile 

 BODY:
There is gold in these hills -- at least $11.5 billion worth at last count, in a wind-swept area studded with glaciers, more than 15,000 feet up in the Andes. The world's biggest gold company wants to mine it, but is finding that a harsh terrain is not the only obstacle in its path.
 Though the Chilean government has tentatively approved the $1.5 billion mining project, called Pascua-Lama, opposition here in Huasco Province is intense and growing.
Local environmental and civic groups contend that the proposed mine will allow the Barrick Gold Corporation of Canada, which has recently become the world's largest gold company, to harm the local water supply, destroy agriculture and walk away without paying taxes or royalties. 
 ''As residents of the Huasco Valley, our interest is maintaining a permanent ecological balance so that people and farming can develop and prosper,'' said Mauricio Rios, president of the Committee for the Defense of the Huasco Valley, a civic group in Vallenar, the provincial capital. ''Barrick wants to make as much money as possible in 20 years and then leave,'' he added. ''So what do we gain? They say they are going to create jobs, but at what cost?''
 Barrick has responded by emphasizing that it has taken steps beyond those required under Chilean law to ensure that the environment is not damaged and the water supply is protected. It says the mine will bring jobs and development.
 ''It still puzzles me why there is so much controversy,'' said Ron Kettles, the Pascua-Lama project manager. ''This is far and away the safest and most environmentally sensitive project that I've ever built in 40 years in this business.''
 At a time when the price of gold has risen sharply -- it has more than doubled in less than five years, and is now at $635 an ounce -- the stakes for Barrick are enormous. In a 2004 legal filing in Canada, the company says that Pascua-Lama, which also contains silver deposits worth an estimated $7.5 billion and some copper, represents ''approximately 25 percent of Barrick's worldwide gold reserves.''
 But the stakes are just as high for local people, who will be here long after the mine closes and who depend on agriculture and runoff from the highlands for drinking water and irrigation in an otherwise parched region.
 Home to 70,000 people, the Huasco Valley is a narrow ribbon of green that flows from the Andes west to the Pacific Ocean, just south of the world's driest desert, the Atacama. Thanks to skillful irrigation, local farmers, including some who belong to the Diaguita indigenous group, have become successful exporters of grapes, avocados, olives, guavas and even mangoes to the United States, Japan and Europe.
 What Barrick proposes is to carve a huge canyon, about a mile wide and about 2,000 feet deep, at the Pascua-Lama mine, which stretches over the border into Argentina. The ore would then be crushed and milled and the gold extracted using chemicals that include cyanide. Environmental groups and farmers have expressed concerns that the operations will end up tainting and diverting the local water supply.
 ''What the government is doing doesn't make any sense,'' said David Martinez Campillay, who has a small grape farm in the community of Chinguito near here. ''Chile used to be known only as a mining country,'' he added, ''and so we were encouraged to branch into new areas of agriculture so that our country could export different products, like fruit. We did that, and now what does the government do? It favors a project that is only going to be here 20 years.''
 Barrick complains that its opponents are using scare tactics to mobilize the local population. It says the project will include safety measures like channels to divert water away from acidic waste rock and the construction of 34 stations to monitor water quality.
 ''Cyanide is used in all kinds of industrial applications worldwide and needs to be transported, handled and managed in a safe and responsible manner,'' Vincent Borg, a Barrick spokesman, said in a telephone interview from the company's headquarters in Toronto. ''Barrick has an exemplary record and has never had any major incidents involving cyanide.''
 In an earlier version of its plan, Barrick proposed moving three glaciers near the mine by chopping them up and hauling the ice and snow to another site. Environmental and civic groups kicked up a storm, arguing that moving the glaciers would deprive the region of a source of drinking water and otherwise damage the environment.
 The government acceded to their request to let the glaciers alone. But the mine's opponents still say they fear that dust from blasting, excavation and other work at the pit will land on the glaciers and speed their melting.
 Barrick officials question whether the ice can be called glaciers at all. ''These ice fields -- or glaciers or glaciarets or ice reservoirs, or whatever you choose to call them -- are naturally dusty and because of global warming have been receding for years,'' Mr. Borg said. He said the company's studies showed that the mine would have ''minimal impact on any acceleration'' of the melting.
 Environmental concerns are not the only issues, however. Under regulations that date to the last days of the Pinochet dictatorship and were liberalized after the return of democracy in 1990, gold, silver and copper mines in Chile are effectively exempted from most taxes and royalties. That enrages many of the project's opponents and has recently become the subject of a heated national debate.
 ''As Chilean farmers, we are subsidizing a multinational mining company that makes billions of dollars,'' said Natanael Vivanco, who was a miner before becoming a grape grower in Chinguito. ''We pay taxes, a lot of them, and our government uses that money to make things easier for a foreign company that doesn't pay a dollar to Chile.''
 The Ministry of Mines and Energy declined a request for an interview to discuss Pascua-Lama and tax and royalty policy for foreign-owned mines, as did the government's Foreign Investment Commission. But Julian Alcayaga, an economist and former congressional aide who specializes in mining issues, said that over the last decade, fewer than five foreign-owned mining projects have paid any taxes or royalties to the Chilean government.
 And even with the government approval it obtained in February, Barrick still faces legal obstacles. In June, a Chilean court ruled that a contract in which Rodolfo Villar, a Chilean mining engineer, ceded his claims to 21,000 acres surrounding Pascua-Lama was invalid because Barrick paid Mr. Villar only $10 while giving his lawyer $650,000 for a much smaller area.
 Mr. Borg said the company viewed the Villar case as ''a nuisance suit'' that will be resolved in Barrick's favor on appeal. But Mr. Villar's lawyer, Hernan Montealegre, described the case as ''a David versus Goliath'' struggle in which a corporate giant has been caught cheating.
 ''For having deceived this man, Barrick is going to have to pay a high price,'' Mr. Montealegre said in an interview in Santiago. ''They are going to have to negotiate with us, and our floor price is at least $100 million.''
 Barrick has sought to blunt complaints about its windfall strike here by establishing itself as a good corporate citizen, donating ambulances and other equipment to local governments and community groups in the Huasco Valley. 
 The company has also set up a job training program that more than 3,000 people have attended, and it says the project will purchase $250 million in goods and services from local merchants. 
 But the steps seem to merely irritate the project's opponents even further. ''You know how you give a piece of candy to a noisy child to shut it up?'' asked Enrique Gaytan Arcos, a municipal council member here. ''Well, that's what they are trying to do to us.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A bus takes workers to vineyards in Huasco Valley, where the hills contain at least $11.5 billion worth of gold. During a celebration honoring the Virgin of Carmen, a local woman danced along a street in Alto del Carmen, in front of the offices of Barrick Gold's Pascua-Lama project.
 A mural in Alto del Carmen reflects fears that a proposed gold mine could harm the water supply. Barrick Gold says the mine it plans would be safe. (Photographs by Tomas Munita for The New York Times)Map of Chile highlighting Alto del Carmen: A proposed mine near Alto del Carmen would cost $1.5 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD MINING (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); WATER QUALITY (74%); MINE CLOSINGS (72%); SILVER MINING (72%); APPROVALS (71%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); JOB CREATION (65%); WATER POLLUTION (63%); DESERTS (60%) Gold; Mines and Mining; Water Pollution; Labor; Agriculture; Gold

COMPANY: BARRICK GOLD CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Barrick Gold Corp

TICKER: ABX (TSX) (84%); ABX (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (84%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (84%)

PERSON: Larry Rohter

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDES (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (50%) CHILE (96%); CANADA (92%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Chile; Huasca valley (Chile)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



615 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 852 words

PERSON: Louis Winnick

HEADLINE: Louis Winnick, Housing Expert, Dies at 85 

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
Louis Winnick, an economist who played a major role in guiding the investments of the Ford Foundation in housing, community renewal and minority enterprise activity from the late 1960's through the 1980's, died yesterday at a hospice in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 85 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y.
 The cause of death was mesothelioma, a type of lung cancer that his daughter, Pamela R. Winnick, attributed to exposure to asbestos when Mr. Winnick worked in the Brooklyn Navy Yard during World War II. 
Mr. Winnick was born in Romania and came to Brooklyn when he was 1. He graduated from Brooklyn College and earned graduate degrees in economics at Columbia University in the postwar period. The start of major government programs to cure the huge national housing shortages made housing economics an important area of study at the time.
 After stints as director of research of the New York City Planning Commission and the Housing and Redevelopment Board in the late 1950's and early 1960's, Mr. Winnick went to the Ford Foundation in 1962, serving from 1968 to 1986 as deputy vice president in the National Affairs division. 
 In the period following the urban turbulence of the late 1960's, the Ford Foundation began to channel major resources into urban projects. Mr. Winnick was in the forefront of this effort, first as head of the urban and metropolitan affairs program and later as deputy director of the national affairs division headed by Mitchell Sviridoff.
 He was credited with persuading the Ford Foundation to do ''program-related investment'' after McGeorge Bundy became president of the foundation in 1966. With this policy, the foundation began making both equity investments and low-interest loans to schools, hospitals, housing organizations and small businesses in low-income urban areas. 
 Ford, like other foundations, had previously focused on grants only, following the philosophy that investing and philanthropy should not be mingled. In the decades since, 300 to 400 foundations have used the program-related-investment approach in a wide range of activities in the public interest, said John Simon, a Yale Law School professor specializing in the nonprofit sector. 
 To enable the housing organizations to operate over the long term, Mr. Winnick inspired the creation of a secondary market to purchase the loans once the housing was producing income, thus providing them with the capital for initiating new projects. The Ford Foundation itself was initially the sole loan purchaser.
 Simultaneously, Mr. Winnick gained a reputation as a nurturer of individual talent and a voice of practical realism in a field where idealism and dedication did not always produce success on the ground.
 ''He was my mentor, a man who knew the big picture and the micro situation,'' said Anita Miller, who worked on Mr. Winnick's staff in the 1970's and later became the first woman on the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. Through his support, she said, the Ford Foundation financed a demonstration program in St. Louis that showed that strong tenant involvement in management could be a cure for the ills of public housing.
 He also promoted the idea of home ownership by low-income households. In Pittsburgh, a demonstration program showed that low-income buyers could be reliable borrowers with properly structured loans. This success stimulated bank mortgage lending in poor neighborhoods nationally, a long-term goal of Mr. Winnick's.
 ''He was a voice of reality at Ford,'' said George B. Sternlieb, former director of the Center for Urban Policy Research at Rutgers University. ''The young idealists listened to him on the complex art of housing delivery.''
 Another theme of Mr. Winnick's career was the necessity of preserving privately owned housing, which he felt could not be accomplished effectively through punitive policies toward landlords. Through his efforts, the Ford Foundation financed research by the Rutgers center that demonstrated that the best way to do this was to strengthen the rent-paying ability of low-income tenants, a philosophy that helped inspire the national Section 8 program of rent subsidies to them.
 During the mayoralty of John V. Lindsay, Mr. Winnick was instrumental in the creation of the Fund for the City of New York, which began as a research entity and now designs and puts innovative approaches to urban problems into effect. Starting with a $1 million grant from the Ford Foundation in 1968, it now functions on a budget of $30 million a year with support from 15 foundations.
 Mr. Winnick was a prolific writer, largely for academic journals but also for periodicals and newspapers. In 1990 his book ''New People in Old Neighborhoods'' was published by Russell Sage. Drawn from his research on the Brooklyn community of Sunset Park, the book makes the case for the value of a constant flow of new immigrants to sustain the vitality of urban neighborhoods.
 Mr. Winnick is survived by his wife, Wilma Artus Winnick, of Great Neck; two daughters, Pamela, of Pittsburgh, Pa., and Holly, of Port Washington, N.Y.; and two grandchildren, Jane and Gregory Morril.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Louis Winnick in 1986. (Photo by Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (92%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); CITIES (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); CHARITIES (78%); LUNG CANCER (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (76%); MESOTHELIOMA (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); HOSPICE (72%); CANCER (72%); ASBESTOS (71%); NAVIES (70%); WORLD WAR II (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); INTEREST RATES (63%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

Alan S Oser

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ROMANIA (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



616 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Lifetime Spent Preparing For Top Job In the N.F.L.

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
Roger Goodell had been telling friends for years that his dream job was to be the general manager of a football team. But when he told a college professor who had been encouraging him to go to law school that he wanted to work for the National Football League, the professor greeted that plan with the skepticism elders reserve for those they think may be sacrificing the rational for the unreachable.
 ''I held back what I really thought,'' said the professor, Joseph DiSarro, recalling their conversation at an off-campus tavern in Washington, Pa., where Goodell worked part time as a bartender. ''I said, 'Well, that's a good idea.' But I thought it was bunk. 'This is pie in the sky.' I think my final thoughts were, 'You ought to consider grad school or law school.' Students sometimes have plans that don't seem very practical.''
Indeed, Goodell received a stream of rejection letters to his job inquiries with N.F.L. teams. But a year after he graduated magna cum laude from Washington & Jefferson College with a degree in economics in 1981, he accepted an internship in the league office. 
 He never went to law school, but Goodell has channeled a lifelong passion for football into a career. Now, as the N.F.L.'s chief operating officer, Goodell is considered the favorite to succeed the retiring Paul Tagliabue as commissioner when the owners meet in Chicago next week. If Goodell, 47, gets the job, he will have completed a remarkable rise to the top of the country's most successful professional sports league. 
 In 1983, he was the intern who cut out newspaper articles in the Jets' public relations department. He has since become a crucial figure in every facet of league business, including marketing and licensing; stadium financing and expansion; the completion of the new collective bargaining agreement; and the move to put a team in Los Angeles. 
 This week, the N.F.L.'s search committee is expected to pare the list of 11 commissioner candidates to four or five. Among the 11 are Jeff Pash, the league's lead counsel, and Eric Grubman, its executive vice president for finance and strategic transactions. 
 Fortune magazine reported on its Web site Thursday that the list also includes Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor who spearheaded New York City's failed bid for the 2012 Olympics, and Joseph M. Leccese, a partner in the Proskauer Rose law firm, who represented Woody Johnson in his acquisition of the Jets and Jeffrey Lurie in his acquisition of the Eagles.
 Michael K. Powell, the former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, is another candidate. Two of the finalists are expected to be from outside the league, but Goodell is well regarded by owners who have dealt with him as the league's No. 2 executive. 
 ''He's been on point for every important operation issue that involves some strategy,'' said Bob Bowland, a professor of sports management at the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University. ''He's a big-picture guy, but he's been in a lot of those hard meetings. He is incredibly well liked. He kills with competence.''
 Despite his high profile within the N.F.L., Goodell, who is married and has twin daughters, is almost unknown to fans. His father, though, was anything but unknown.
 Charles E. Goodell had been a Republican congressman from western New York for 10 years when, in September 1968, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller appointed him to fill the Senate seat left vacant by the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy. The likable, pipe-smoking Goodell was considered an unusual choice for Rockefeller, recalled Richard Rosenbaum, the former state chairman of the Republican Party. 
 ''Charlie was considered to be a flaming liberal,'' Rosenbaum said in a recent telephone interview. 
 In his most famous political moment, Goodell sponsored legislation to cut off money for the Vietnam War effort, a decision he reached after meeting with student leaders of the antiwar movement, said George Mitrovich, his former press secretary. That decision undid Goodell's political career.
 Rockefeller was furious, and Vice President Spiro T. Agnew called him a ''radical liberal.'' In a speech, Agnew said Goodell was ''the Christine Jorgensen of the Republican Party.'' Jorgensen had a famous sex-change operation in 1952. 
 When Charles Goodell ran for the full six-year Senate term in 1970, his family campaigned with him. At one stop in Queens, he told his sons that they did not have to go to school the next day. The New York Times quoted Roger, then 11, as saying ''Thank you, Dad,'' then kissing his father. 
 Charles Goodell split the moderate-to-liberal vote with the Democrat Richard L. Ottinger, and James L. Buckley, a Conservative, won the election.
 ''That was a brutal time for him,'' Mitrovich said in a recent interview. ''He had five boys. They were young, but they were alarmed about their futures and their father's future. They had never known him to be anything but an elected public official.''
 After the defeat, Charles Goodell returned to practicing law, and he died in 1987 at age 60. Mitrovich, who has remained in contact with the family, compares Roger Goodell to his father. 
 ''I think he has his father's intelligence and a lot of his father's temperament,'' Mitrovich said. ''I never witnessed the senator lose control. The one time when he lost it was the day of the Kent State shooting. When I had to take the news in to tell him, he turned his chair away from me, and he was looking out the window, and he said, 'What in God's name is happening to our country?' There were tears running down his cheeks.''
 Few people at Washington & Jefferson learned of Goodell's background immediately. Goodell was not an elite high school student because he was preoccupied with football. But he could not play in college because of an old injury, and he found his niche there academically and socially.
 David Westphal, one of his wide circle of friends from their first week as freshmen, did not find out for several years -- when he visited Goodell's home after they had turned 21 -- that his father had been a senator. 
 ''Whenever he sat down in a room with six or eight people, he never had any airs,'' Westphal said in a phone interview. ''You would think he was a blue-collar guy. That's probably from his upbringing. I don't think he wanted to sound like, 'Hey, my dad was a senator.' He wanted to do what he is capable of doing.'' 
 Goodell's current job involves much of the day-to-day business that keeps the N.F.L. profitable. He has been instrumental in the explosive growth of the N.F.L.'s lucrative licensing and sponsorship deals and in new-media development. 
 But his job also brings him into regular contact with owners, particularly in difficult discussions to resolve conflicts. Most recently, Goodell was closely involved in smoothing the differences between high- and low-revenue teams in the contentious debate on revenue sharing that accompanied the collective bargaining negotiations with the players union. 
 ''At times he's been accused of being in both camps, and that's the highest compliment he could get,'' said Carmen Policy, the former president of the San Francisco 49ers and the Cleveland Browns. 
 Policy said that Goodell's institutional knowledge of the league and the owners would trump what may be his biggest weakness: his lack of experience as a chief executive. 
 ''I think they trust him and his motives,'' Policy said. ''He has N.F.L. DNA running through his bloodstream.''
 Years ago, that made an impression on the teams Goodell worked for. Whether it will again, in the more complex modern sports era, may determine whether Goodell gets the N.F.L. job even he never dreamed of. 
 ''The thing that impressed you was, no job was too small,'' said Mike Kensil, the former Jets vice president for operations, who met Goodell when he was an intern. ''He was such a doggedly hard worker. And he has that ability to talk to people and hear what they're saying, yet at the same time get his point across. When he left to go work at the league office at the end of the year, we were all saying this guy was going to go somewhere. Little did we know.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Early in his N.F.L. career, Roger Goodell clipped newspapers as an intern in the Jets' public relations office. (Photo by Jaime Lopez/Associated Press)(pg. 1)
 N.F.L. owners will select a replacement for Paul Tagliabue, who is retiring as commissioner. (Photo by Andy Lyons/Getty Images)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); DRINKING PLACES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); OLYMPICS (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (50%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (50%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%); WEB SITES (50%) Football

COMPANY: PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NEW YORK JETS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Judy Battista; Roger Goodell

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



617 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER: FREQUENT-FLIER MILES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Advice to Mileage Misers: Use the Hoard Now

BYLINE: By DAVID A. KELLY

 BODY:
LIKE most travelers, I love the feeling of building up frequent-flier miles by accruing points for flights and opening new credit card accounts that offer miles for purchases. However, while miles seem easier to earn than ever before, many airlines have made it harder and more expensive actually to redeem them for airline seats or upgrades. ''My first word of advice is to use up your miles,'' said Tim Jarrell, publisher of Fodor's Travel Publications. ''Don't hoard them -- they're not bank accounts that earn interest.''
 ''As airlines try to cut costs,'' he said, ''it's becoming more difficult to find available free seats, and the miles required for many trips are increasing as well.''
One way to redeem miles successfully is to educate yourself on all the possible flight alternatives when the initial request for a free ticket comes up negative. ''Arm yourself with ways you know you can connect,'' said Bob Jones, a travel expert for BookingWiz.com, which compares deals from travel Web sites. ''Agents may not always think about all the different routes, so you may have to suggest different options.'' 
 John Spear, a hotel manager in San Francisco and avid user of frequent-flier miles agrees. ''You'll have the best shot,'' he said, ''if you have a good knowledge of the airline hubs, the frequency of the flights and the flight capacities. Then you can call the airline and suggest alternative routings for them to check.'' 
 For example, Mr. Spear was able to use this approach to help a friend who wanted to fly from San Francisco to Milan in April using frequent-flier points on Continental. Unfortunately, there were no standard award seats left, and if his friend wanted to take the trip, he would have to redeem double miles for a 100,000-mile normal award. 
 ''They were routing him through Newark direct to Milan, but I knew that Continental had flights available from Newark to Gatwick and that Alitalia would have flights from Gatwick,'' said Mr. Spear. ''Simply suggesting the alternative routing enabled the agent to see the seat availability and book a ticket at the standard award level.''
 An indispensable source of up-to-date information on airlines and frequent-flier programs is specialized Web sites like www.flyertalk.com, which provide community bulletin boards for asking questions about individual programs, such as whether you can use Delta SkyMiles on a Virgin Atlantic flight. These sites can be great places to research alternative routes and airline-specific information that can help identify potential mileage redemption opportunities. 
 Such sites can also help you build your trip backwards and find alternatives to suggest to the airline representative. For instance, Mr. Jones of BookingWiz.com notes that if you want to fly to Asia on Northwest and there are no seats available, ask the agent to try routing you through Amsterdam -- it's a viable route, but not one the agent may normally consider. Or if you want to fly to Budapest, start by finding out what airlines fly there and then identifying code-share airlines that partner with the one you already have miles on. 
 It helps to identify all of an airline's partners -- both ones that are in alliances, like oneworld (www.oneworld.com) or SkyTeam (www.skyteam.com), as well as individual partners. ''Sometimes airlines like Malaysia Airlines are not part of an alliance like SkyTeam, but they may still be a Northwest partner,'' said Mr. Jones. 
 Although frequent-flier programs were originally created as a way to reward customers who flew a lot, today most programs have turned into lucrative marketing programs for airlines that may -- or may not -- make it easy for customers to fly free. 
 ''Frequent-flier programs have turned into trading stamp programs without the stamps,'' said Terry Trippler, spokesman for CheapSeats.com. ''Instead of opening up more seats for travelers, most programs are now offering magazine subscriptions, gift certificates or merchandise such as TV's instead. I sometimes wonder if the TV sets they're offering will last longer than the airlines themselves.''
 Airline viability (and frequent-flier miles longevity) certainly worries some travelers, especially given the economic health of airlines like Northwest and Delta, which are in Chapter 11 bankruptcy. 
 Although Mr. Trippler suggests using your frequent-flier miles as soon as possible, he's not overly concerned about programs or miles evaporating. ''As long as the airline is in business,'' he said, ''they'll have a frequent-flier program, since they actually make money on the program by selling the miles to banks, stores and other providers.''
 Of course, to have the best shot at an award seat, the basics apply -- plan your trips as early as possible. Most airlines open up frequent-flier seats about 330 days in advance, but even those can be difficult to obtain for resort destinations like Hawaii, the Caribbean or Europe. Check frequently for updated availability, since free seats can be opened up at any time. It's also a good idea to check the airline's Web site and sign up for their e-mail newsletter since they may run unannounced specials for certain routes or short-term promotions with reduced miles to particular destinations. 
 Alternatively, if you simply can't book the flight to Hawaii or Europe in the summer, do what Mr. Jarrell did for a recent vacation to Latin America. ''I often pick a time that I want to travel,'' he said, ''and then call the airline or use their frequent-flier Web sites to find out what's open during that time and make a decision from there.''
 Upgrades are another option. ''I like to use my miles to obtain upgrades on international flights,'' Mr. Jarrell said.
 ''If you look at the price difference between a business-class and economy ticket,'' he said, ''the value quotient is significant, so it's a great use of miles.'' For example, on United, an upgrade from a full-fare economy ticket to the next class of service on a flight to Europe costs just 15,000 miles. If you have lots of miles, another option is to use ''rule buster'' awards (typically they require double the number of miles) to book the flights you want and then keep checking back as you get closer to departure to see if regular award seats open up.
 ''Airlines do release award seats from inventory closer to departure,'' Mr. Jones said. ''For example, I almost guarantee that you can find a last-minute award seat to Europe tomorrow. So get the booking with a rule buster award, and then even if you have to pay a fee to cancel it and redeposit the miles into your account if a regular award opens up, you'll be way ahead of the game.''
 Of course, if you simply can't make the time to take a trip or find a suitable destination, it might be worth it to investigate the redemption alternatives, like hotel vouchers or home electronics. 
 ''Now is not the time to hoard miles on any airline,'' said Mr. Trippler.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Isabel Klett)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); CREDIT CARDS (78%); LOYALTY MARKETING (78%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); AIR SERVICE (77%) 

COMPANY: FODOR'S TRAVEL PUBLICATIONS INC (72%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (72%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: David A Kelly

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



618 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Flood Insurance Often Insufficient 

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

 BODY:
WHOEVER said bad news comes in threes did not own a house near the water around here. 
 First, experts began predicting last year that the East Coast was at a higher than normal risk of being hit by a major hurricane in 2006. Then, in January, the largest homeowners' insurance company in downstate New York, Allstate, announced it would not write new policies for single-family homes and would not renew some policies.
 Two months later, the Rand Corporation sounded its own alarm, saying that half the homes in some of the nation's most flood-prone areas, including the Northeast, were not covered by flood insurance. Then, starting in late June, towns along the Delaware and Susquehanna Rivers were inundated when record rains led the rivers to overflow their banks.
 And it's not over yet. Three months remain in the hurricane season, which peaks from August through October. 
 Residents left scrambling to find homeowners' coverage in Allstate's wake are learning that other insurers are also retreating from coastal areas and that those still writing policies are charging higher premiums. 
 Homeowners' insurance, which is required to obtain a mortgage, does not cover damage from floods, only from wind and other effects of hurricanes, such as fallen trees. Federal flood insurance -- where it is available -- covers a house's structure for nominal premiums but charges extra to cover the contents. And private flood insurance costs more.
 Experts say too many residents remain misinformed about the availability of flood insurance or have insufficient coverage.
 Ask Robert and Cathy Berg, of Lambertville, N.J. Their house on the Delaware River has been flooded three times in 22 months. Last year, they had no flood insurance and sustained $30,000 in damage, Mrs. Berg said. This year, they obtained flood insurance -- but not enough.
 Retirees on a fixed income, the Bergs opted for a $5,000 deductible, which reduced the premium, but when their house was flooded again this month, they received a check from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, through which they had bought the insurance, for just $175, Mrs. Berg said. ''Now you tell me: What was the point of getting insurance?'' she asked.
 Gerard Brown, the owner of an insurance agency in Lindenhurst, on Long Island, said that FEMA caps coverage in both high- and low-risk flood zones at $250,000 for a house and $100,000 for its contents. 
 In the highest-risk zones, like Long Beach, N.Y., the maximum coverage with a $1,000 deductible would cost $2,350 a year, but that could be reduced to $600 or less for properties above a minimum specified elevation, Mr. Brown said. Additional insurance is available through private companies, Mr. Brown said, but not for waterfront properties. Where it is available, he said, ''it's not cheap.''
 Howard Mills, the New York state superintendent of insurance, said the results of the Rand study illustrated, alarmingly, the federal program's greatest problem -- too few homeowners who are required by their mortgage holders to have flood insurance or who should have it are buying it. 
 ''I've spent a significant amount of time talking about the need, but it's a very difficult sell,'' Mr. Mills said. 
 At least a month before the Susquehanna overflowed its banks earlier this summer, New York began requiring insurance agents to talk to prospective and current customers about the need for flood insurance and to have them sign a waiver if they declined coverage. 
 ''Availability is not the problem,'' Mr. Mills said. ''Getting people to buy coverage is.''
 Those who buy homeowners' policies, as distinct from flood insurance, may find themselves paying more as the insurance industry tries to regroup after hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Wilma and Dennis. Those storms contributed to a record-breaking $53 billion in losses for the insurance industry last year, according to the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. 
 Allstate alone reported $4.7 billion in losses during the third quarter of 2005. As a result, seeking to curtail the financial risks posed by a future catastrophe and deciding its greatest risk was in downstate New York, Allstate stopped writing new policies there in January. The company held a 26 percent share of the market in those eight counties -- Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester and the five New York City boroughs.
 Others have jumped into the breach but are charging higher premiums, Mr. Mills said. ''The bottom line is that the market has remained competitive,'' he said. ''However, there are some former Allstate customers who no doubt are paying more now.''
 Insurers are required to notify Albany when a move to withdraw from a market affects a certain percentage of customers, but not when they make changes like increasing deductibles or turning down customers who live near the water. For that reason, Mr. Mills was unaware that several companies are at least scaling back the number of policies they are writing, if not following Allstate out of the market one baby step at a time.
 Mr. Brown, whose Long Island agency represents four insurers, said that one had stopped writing new homeowners' policies south of the Sunrise Highway, a second had increased the deductible from 2 percent of a dwelling's coverage value to as much as 5 percent, and the others were turning away prospective customers who live within a half-mile or a mile of the Great South Bay. The same is true in New Jersey, where insurers are charging coastal homeowners 10 to 15 percent more than last year, said Jim Gardner, a spokesman for the State Department of Banking and Insurance. 
 As in New York, insurers in New Jersey and Connecticut are not required to notify the state if they change their underwriting guidelines. That allows them to take small steps out of a market -- for example, by increasing the size of the coastal areas they will not cover. But Mr. Gardner said some insurers were talking with New Jersey officials about increasing deductibles for hurricane wind damage.
 The Tropical Meteorology Project at Colorado State University calculated last year that the East Coast has an 81 percent chance of being hit this year by a major hurricane -- a Category 3, 4 or 5. The average risk over the past century was 52 percent. In May, the National Weather Service predicted an 80 percent chance of above-normal activity in the Atlantic Ocean, with up to 10 hurricanes over all and as many as 6 classified as major.
 ''A major hurricane will hit here,'' Mr. Mills said. ''We just don't know when.'' 
 As a result, the need for full coverage has never been greater, experts said. 
 On Long Island, the marshlands around Lake Ronkonkoma frequently flood Charles Court, where homeowners were pumping out their basements and trying to rid their homes of mold in early July. Andrea and John Panicci, who live there, pay about $600 a month for electricity to keep two pumps running around the clock. Even so, water continually seeps up through their basement floor, Mrs. Panicci said.
 Two years ago, an agent for their homeowners' insurer said they were not eligible for federal flood insurance because their neighborhood was not in a designated flood zone, Mrs. Panicci said. 
 ''If I could get flood insurance, I would pay for it today,'' she said a few weeks ago. ''And, if we ever get hit with a hurricane, it's all over for us.''
 She tried again the following week. The first agent had been mistaken, and their house was in fact in a flood zone. Another agent from the same company was able to sign them up. 
 ''I just can't tell you how relieved I am,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: SOGGY TIMES -- Andrea Panicci watched on Tuesday as flooding from a pond near her home in Ronkonkoma, N.Y., subsided. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); FLOOD INSURANCE (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WEATHER (90%); RIVERS (89%); FLOOD ZONES (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (75%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); CITIES (69%) Floods; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Insurance; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (91%); RAND CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: Allstate Insurance Co

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (71%)

PERSON: Julia C Mead

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



619 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Flood Insurance Often Insufficient 

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

 BODY:
WHOEVER said bad news comes in threes did not own a house near the water around here. 
 First, experts began predicting last year that the East Coast was at a higher than normal risk of being hit by a major hurricane in 2006. Then, in January, the largest homeowners' insurance company in downstate New York, Allstate, announced it would not write new policies for single-family homes and would not renew some policies.
 Two months later, the Rand Corporation sounded its own alarm, saying that half the homes in some of the nation's most flood-prone areas, including the Northeast, were not covered by flood insurance. Then, starting in late June, towns along the Delaware and Susquehanna Rivers were inundated when record rains led the rivers to overflow their banks.
 And it's not over yet. Three months remain in the hurricane season, which peaks from August through October. 
 Residents left scrambling to find homeowners' coverage in Allstate's wake are learning that other insurers are also retreating from coastal areas and that those still writing policies are charging higher premiums. 
 Homeowners' insurance, which is required to obtain a mortgage, does not cover damage from floods, only from wind and other effects of hurricanes, such as fallen trees. Federal flood insurance -- where it is available -- covers a house's structure for nominal premiums but charges extra to cover the contents. And private flood insurance costs more.
 Experts say too many residents remain misinformed about the availability of flood insurance or have insufficient coverage.
 Ask Robert and Cathy Berg, of Lambertville, N.J. Their house on the Delaware River has been flooded three times in 22 months. Last year, they had no flood insurance and sustained $30,000 in damage, Mrs. Berg said. This year, they obtained flood insurance -- but not enough.
 Retirees on a fixed income, the Bergs opted for a $5,000 deductible, which reduced the premium, but when their house was flooded again this month, they received a check from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, through which they had bought the insurance, for just $175, Mrs. Berg said. ''Now you tell me: What was the point of getting insurance?'' she asked.
 Gerard Brown, the owner of an insurance agency in Lindenhurst, on Long Island, said that FEMA caps coverage in both high- and low-risk flood zones at $250,000 for a house and $100,000 for its contents. 
 In the highest-risk zones, like Long Beach, N.Y., the maximum coverage with a $1,000 deductible would cost $2,350 a year, but that could be reduced to $600 or less for properties above a minimum specified elevation, Mr. Brown said. Additional insurance is available through private companies, Mr. Brown said, but not for waterfront properties. Where it is available, he said, ''it's not cheap.''
 Howard Mills, the New York state superintendent of insurance, said the results of the Rand study illustrated, alarmingly, the federal program's greatest problem -- too few homeowners who are required by their mortgage holders to have flood insurance or who should have it are buying it. 
 ''I've spent a significant amount of time talking about the need, but it's a very difficult sell,'' Mr. Mills said. 
 At least a month before the Susquehanna overflowed its banks earlier this summer, New York began requiring insurance agents to talk to prospective and current customers about the need for flood insurance and to have them sign a waiver if they declined coverage. 
 ''Availability is not the problem,'' Mr. Mills said. ''Getting people to buy coverage is.''
 Those who buy homeowners' policies, as distinct from flood insurance, may find themselves paying more as the insurance industry tries to regroup after hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Wilma and Dennis. Those storms contributed to a record-breaking $53 billion in losses for the insurance industry last year, according to the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. 
 Allstate alone reported $4.7 billion in losses during the third quarter of 2005. As a result, seeking to curtail the financial risks posed by a future catastrophe and deciding its greatest risk was in downstate New York, Allstate stopped writing new policies there in January. The company held a 26 percent share of the market in those eight counties -- Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester and the five New York City boroughs.
 Others have jumped into the breach but are charging higher premiums, Mr. Mills said. ''The bottom line is that the market has remained competitive,'' he said. ''However, there are some former Allstate customers who no doubt are paying more now.''
 Insurers are required to notify Albany when a move to withdraw from a market affects a certain percentage of customers, but not when they make changes like increasing deductibles or turning down customers who live near the water. For that reason, Mr. Mills was unaware that several companies are at least scaling back the number of policies they are writing, if not following Allstate out of the market one baby step at a time.
 Mr. Brown, whose Long Island agency represents four insurers, said that one had stopped writing new homeowners' policies south of the Sunrise Highway, a second had increased the deductible from 2 percent of a dwelling's coverage value to as much as 5 percent, and the others were turning away prospective customers who live within a half-mile or a mile of the Great South Bay. The same is true in New Jersey, where insurers are charging coastal homeowners 10 to 15 percent more than last year, said Jim Gardner, a spokesman for the State Department of Banking and Insurance. 
 As in New York, insurers in New Jersey and Connecticut are not required to notify the state if they change their underwriting guidelines. That allows them to take small steps out of a market -- for example, by increasing the size of the coastal areas they will not cover. But Mr. Gardner said some insurers were talking with New Jersey officials about increasing deductibles for hurricane wind damage.
 The Tropical Meteorology Project at Colorado State University calculated last year that the East Coast has an 81 percent chance of being hit this year by a major hurricane -- a Category 3, 4 or 5. The average risk over the past century was 52 percent. In May, the National Weather Service predicted an 80 percent chance of above-normal activity in the Atlantic Ocean, with up to 10 hurricanes over all and as many as 6 classified as major.
 ''A major hurricane will hit here,'' Mr. Mills said. ''We just don't know when.'' 
 As a result, the need for full coverage has never been greater, experts said. 
 On Long Island, the marshlands around Lake Ronkonkoma frequently flood Charles Court, where homeowners were pumping out their basements and trying to rid their homes of mold in early July. Andrea and John Panicci, who live there, pay about $600 a month for electricity to keep two pumps running around the clock. Even so, water continually seeps up through their basement floor, Mrs. Panicci said.
 Two years ago, an agent for their homeowners' insurer said they were not eligible for federal flood insurance because their neighborhood was not in a designated flood zone, Mrs. Panicci said. 
 ''If I could get flood insurance, I would pay for it today,'' she said a few weeks ago. ''And, if we ever get hit with a hurricane, it's all over for us.''
 She tried again the following week. The first agent had been mistaken, and their house was in fact in a flood zone. Another agent from the same company was able to sign them up. 
 ''I just can't tell you how relieved I am,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: SOGGY TIMES -- Andrea Panicci watched on Tuesday as flooding from a pond near her home in Ronkonkoma, N.Y., subsided. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); FLOOD INSURANCE (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WEATHER (90%); RIVERS (89%); FLOOD ZONES (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (75%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); CITIES (69%) Floods; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Insurance; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (91%); RAND CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: Allstate Insurance Co

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (71%)

PERSON: Julia C Mead

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



620 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Flood Insurance Often Insufficient 

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

 BODY:
WHOEVER said bad news comes in threes did not own a house near the water around here. 
 First, experts began predicting last year that the East Coast was at a higher than normal risk of being hit by a major hurricane in 2006. Then, in January, the largest homeowners' insurance company in downstate New York, Allstate, announced it would not write new policies for single-family homes and would not renew some policies.
 Two months later, the Rand Corporation sounded its own alarm, saying that half the homes in some of the nation's most flood-prone areas, including the Northeast, were not covered by flood insurance. Then, starting in late June, towns along the Delaware and Susquehanna Rivers were inundated when record rains led the rivers to overflow their banks.
 And it's not over yet. Three months remain in the hurricane season, which peaks from August through October. 
 Residents left scrambling to find homeowners' coverage in Allstate's wake are learning that other insurers are also retreating from coastal areas and that those still writing policies are charging higher premiums. 
 Homeowners' insurance, which is required to obtain a mortgage, does not cover damage from floods, only from wind and other effects of hurricanes, such as fallen trees. Federal flood insurance -- where it is available -- covers a house's structure for nominal premiums but charges extra to cover the contents. And private flood insurance costs more.
 Experts say too many residents remain misinformed about the availability of flood insurance or have insufficient coverage.
 Ask Robert and Cathy Berg, of Lambertville, N.J. Their house on the Delaware River has been flooded three times in 22 months. Last year, they had no flood insurance and sustained $30,000 in damage, Mrs. Berg said. This year, they obtained flood insurance -- but not enough.
 Retirees on a fixed income, the Bergs opted for a $5,000 deductible, which reduced the premium, but when their house was flooded again this month, they received a check from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, through which they had bought the insurance, for just $175, Mrs. Berg said. ''Now you tell me: What was the point of getting insurance?'' she asked.
 Gerard Brown, the owner of an insurance agency in Lindenhurst, on Long Island, said that FEMA caps coverage in both high- and low-risk flood zones at $250,000 for a house and $100,000 for its contents. 
 In the highest-risk zones, like Long Beach, N.Y., the maximum coverage with a $1,000 deductible would cost $2,350 a year, but that could be reduced to $600 or less for properties above a minimum specified elevation, Mr. Brown said. Additional insurance is available through private companies, Mr. Brown said, but not for waterfront properties. Where it is available, he said, ''it's not cheap.''
 Howard Mills, the New York state superintendent of insurance, said the results of the Rand study illustrated, alarmingly, the federal program's greatest problem -- too few homeowners who are required by their mortgage holders to have flood insurance or who should have it are buying it. 
 ''I've spent a significant amount of time talking about the need, but it's a very difficult sell,'' Mr. Mills said. 
 At least a month before the Susquehanna overflowed its banks earlier this summer, New York began requiring insurance agents to talk to prospective and current customers about the need for flood insurance and to have them sign a waiver if they declined coverage. 
 ''Availability is not the problem,'' Mr. Mills said. ''Getting people to buy coverage is.''
 Those who buy homeowners' policies, as distinct from flood insurance, may find themselves paying more as the insurance industry tries to regroup after hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Wilma and Dennis. Those storms contributed to a record-breaking $53 billion in losses for the insurance industry last year, according to the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. 
 Allstate alone reported $4.7 billion in losses during the third quarter of 2005. As a result, seeking to curtail the financial risks posed by a future catastrophe and deciding its greatest risk was in downstate New York, Allstate stopped writing new policies there in January. The company held a 26 percent share of the market in those eight counties -- Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester and the five New York City boroughs.
 Others have jumped into the breach but are charging higher premiums, Mr. Mills said. ''The bottom line is that the market has remained competitive,'' he said. ''However, there are some former Allstate customers who no doubt are paying more now.''
 Insurers are required to notify Albany when a move to withdraw from a market affects a certain percentage of customers, but not when they make changes like increasing deductibles or turning down customers who live near the water. For that reason, Mr. Mills was unaware that several companies are at least scaling back the number of policies they are writing, if not following Allstate out of the market one baby step at a time.
 Mr. Brown, whose Long Island agency represents four insurers, said that one had stopped writing new homeowners' policies south of the Sunrise Highway, a second had increased the deductible from 2 percent of a dwelling's coverage value to as much as 5 percent, and the others were turning away prospective customers who live within a half-mile or a mile of the Great South Bay. The same is true in New Jersey, where insurers are charging coastal homeowners 10 to 15 percent more than last year, said Jim Gardner, a spokesman for the State Department of Banking and Insurance. 
 As in New York, insurers in New Jersey and Connecticut are not required to notify the state if they change their underwriting guidelines. That allows them to take small steps out of a market -- for example, by increasing the size of the coastal areas they will not cover. But Mr. Gardner said some insurers were talking with New Jersey officials about increasing deductibles for hurricane wind damage.
 The Tropical Meteorology Project at Colorado State University calculated last year that the East Coast has an 81 percent chance of being hit this year by a major hurricane -- a Category 3, 4 or 5. The average risk over the past century was 52 percent. In May, the National Weather Service predicted an 80 percent chance of above-normal activity in the Atlantic Ocean, with up to 10 hurricanes over all and as many as 6 classified as major.
 ''A major hurricane will hit here,'' Mr. Mills said. ''We just don't know when.'' 
 As a result, the need for full coverage has never been greater, experts said. 
 On Long Island, the marshlands around Lake Ronkonkoma frequently flood Charles Court, where homeowners were pumping out their basements and trying to rid their homes of mold in early July. Andrea and John Panicci, who live there, pay about $600 a month for electricity to keep two pumps running around the clock. Even so, water continually seeps up through their basement floor, Mrs. Panicci said.
 Two years ago, an agent for their homeowners' insurer said they were not eligible for federal flood insurance because their neighborhood was not in a designated flood zone, Mrs. Panicci said. 
 ''If I could get flood insurance, I would pay for it today,'' she said a few weeks ago. ''And, if we ever get hit with a hurricane, it's all over for us.''
 She tried again the following week. The first agent had been mistaken, and their house was in fact in a flood zone. Another agent from the same company was able to sign them up. 
 ''I just can't tell you how relieved I am,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: SOGGY TIMES -- Andrea Panicci watched on Tuesday as flooding from a pond near her home in Ronkonkoma, N.Y., subsided. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); FLOOD INSURANCE (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WEATHER (90%); RIVERS (89%); FLOOD ZONES (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (75%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); CITIES (69%) Floods; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Insurance; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (91%); RAND CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: Allstate Insurance Co

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (71%)

PERSON: Julia C Mead

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



621 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Flood Insurance Often Insufficient 

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

 BODY:
WHOEVER said bad news comes in threes did not own a house near the water around here. 
 First, experts began predicting last year that the East Coast was at a higher than normal risk of being hit by a major hurricane in 2006. Then, in January, the largest homeowners' insurance company in downstate New York, Allstate, announced it would not write new policies for single-family homes and would not renew some policies.
 Two months later, the Rand Corporation sounded its own alarm, saying that half the homes in some of the nation's most flood-prone areas, including the Northeast, were not covered by flood insurance. Then, starting in late June, towns along the Delaware and Susquehanna Rivers were inundated when record rains led the rivers to overflow their banks.
And it's not over yet. Three months remain in the hurricane season, which peaks from August through October. 
 Residents left scrambling to find homeowners' coverage in Allstate's wake are learning that other insurers are also retreating from coastal areas and that those still writing policies are charging higher premiums. 
 Homeowners' insurance, which is required to obtain a mortgage, does not cover damage from floods, only from wind and other effects of hurricanes, such as fallen trees. Federal flood insurance -- where it is available -- covers a house's structure for nominal premiums but charges extra to cover the contents. And private flood insurance costs more.
 Experts say too many residents remain misinformed about the availability of flood insurance or have insufficient coverage.
 Ask Robert and Cathy Berg, of Lambertville, N.J. Their house on the Delaware River has been flooded three times in 22 months. Last year, they had no flood insurance and sustained $30,000 in damage, Mrs. Berg said. This year, they obtained flood insurance -- but not enough.
 Retirees on a fixed income, the Bergs opted for a $5,000 deductible, which reduced the premium, but when their house was flooded again this month, they received a check from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, through which they had bought the insurance, for just $175, Mrs. Berg said. ''Now you tell me: What was the point of getting insurance?'' she asked.
 Gerard Brown, the owner of an insurance agency in Lindenhurst, on Long Island, said that FEMA caps coverage in both high- and low-risk flood zones at $250,000 for a house and $100,000 for its contents. 
 In the highest-risk zones, like Long Beach, N.Y., the maximum coverage with a $1,000 deductible would cost $2,350 a year, but that could be reduced to $600 or less for properties above a minimum specified elevation, Mr. Brown said. Additional insurance is available through private companies, Mr. Brown said, but not for waterfront properties. Where it is available, he said, ''it's not cheap.''
 Howard Mills, the New York state superintendent of insurance, said the results of the Rand study illustrated, alarmingly, the federal program's greatest problem -- too few homeowners who are required by their mortgage holders to have flood insurance or who should have it are buying it. 
 ''I've spent a significant amount of time talking about the need, but it's a very difficult sell,'' Mr. Mills said. 
 At least a month before the Susquehanna overflowed its banks earlier this summer, New York began requiring insurance agents to talk to prospective and current customers about the need for flood insurance and to have them sign a waiver if they declined coverage. 
 ''Availability is not the problem,'' Mr. Mills said. ''Getting people to buy coverage is.''
 Those who buy homeowners' policies, as distinct from flood insurance, may find themselves paying more as the insurance industry tries to regroup after hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Wilma and Dennis. Those storms contributed to a record-breaking $53 billion in losses for the insurance industry last year, according to the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. 
 Allstate alone reported $4.7 billion in losses during the third quarter of 2005. As a result, seeking to curtail the financial risks posed by a future catastrophe and deciding its greatest risk was in downstate New York, Allstate stopped writing new policies there in January. The company held a 26 percent share of the market in those eight counties -- Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester and the five New York City boroughs.
 Others have jumped into the breach but are charging higher premiums, Mr. Mills said. ''The bottom line is that the market has remained competitive,'' he said. ''However, there are some former Allstate customers who no doubt are paying more now.''
 Insurers are required to notify Albany when a move to withdraw from a market affects a certain percentage of customers, but not when they make changes like increasing deductibles or turning down customers who live near the water. For that reason, Mr. Mills was unaware that several companies are at least scaling back the number of policies they are writing, if not following Allstate out of the market one baby step at a time.
 Mr. Brown, whose Long Island agency represents four insurers, said that one had stopped writing new homeowners' policies south of the Sunrise Highway, a second had increased the deductible from 2 percent of a dwelling's coverage value to as much as 5 percent, and the others were turning away prospective customers who live within a half-mile or a mile of the Great South Bay. The same is true in New Jersey, where insurers are charging coastal homeowners 10 to 15 percent more than last year, said Jim Gardner, a spokesman for the State Department of Banking and Insurance. 
 As in New York, insurers in New Jersey and Connecticut are not required to notify the state if they change their underwriting guidelines. That allows them to take small steps out of a market -- for example, by increasing the size of the coastal areas they will not cover. But Mr. Gardner said some insurers were talking with New Jersey officials about increasing deductibles for hurricane wind damage.
 The Tropical Meteorology Project at Colorado State University calculated last year that the East Coast has an 81 percent chance of being hit this year by a major hurricane -- a Category 3, 4 or 5. The average risk over the past century was 52 percent. In May, the National Weather Service predicted an 80 percent chance of above-normal activity in the Atlantic Ocean, with up to 10 hurricanes over all and as many as 6 classified as major.
 ''A major hurricane will hit here,'' Mr. Mills said. ''We just don't know when.'' 
 As a result, the need for full coverage has never been greater, experts said. 
 On Long Island, the marshlands around Lake Ronkonkoma frequently flood Charles Court, where homeowners were pumping out their basements and trying to rid their homes of mold in early July. Andrea and John Panicci, who live there, pay about $600 a month for electricity to keep two pumps running around the clock. Even so, water continually seeps up through their basement floor, Mrs. Panicci said.
 Two years ago, an agent for their homeowners' insurer said they were not eligible for federal flood insurance because their neighborhood was not in a designated flood zone, Mrs. Panicci said. 
 ''If I could get flood insurance, I would pay for it today,'' she said a few weeks ago. ''And, if we ever get hit with a hurricane, it's all over for us.''
 She tried again the following week. The first agent had been mistaken, and their house was in fact in a flood zone. Another agent from the same company was able to sign them up. 
 ''I just can't tell you how relieved I am,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: SOGGY TIMES -- Andrea Panicci watched on Tuesday as flooding from a pond near her home in Ronkonkoma, N.Y., subsided. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); FLOOD INSURANCE (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WEATHER (90%); RIVERS (89%); FLOOD ZONES (89%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (75%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); CITIES (69%) Floods; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Insurance; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (91%); RAND CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: Allstate Insurance Co

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (71%)

PERSON: Julia C Mead

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



622 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Style: COLLECTIONS REPORT; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 12 words

HEADLINE: Fashion Majors

 BODY:
The cast of 'The History boys' breezes through the fall core curriculum. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: MILITARY HISTORY: Dominic Cooper is in a Dolce & Gabbana wool jacket with gold buttons, $2,225. At Dolce & Gabbana boutiques. Theory cotton shirt, $75. At Theory stores. D&G straight-leg jeans with naval side buttons, $475, belt and boots. At D&G SoHo, 434 West Broadway. Marni fingerless gloves.
CELTIC STUDIES: Russell Tovey is in a Bottega Veneta leather jacket, $5,400, cotton shirt, $840, wool tartan tie, $190, and cashmere scarf, $870. At Bottega Veneta boutiques.
COMP LIT: Jamie Parker wears a Polo by Ralph Lauren wool blazer, $1,229, cotton shirt, $125, and tie and Ralph Lauren jeans, $395. All at select Ralph Lauren stores. Paul Stuart brass collar pin. Paul Smith Spectacles eyeglasses. Vintage Ralph Lauren boots.
ECONOMICS: Andrew Knott wears a Valentino cashmere coat with fur collar, $5,350. At Neiman Marcus. Burberry Prorsum suit jacket, $1,295, vest, $395, pants, $570, shirt, $275, and tie. At Burberry stores. Y-3 driving gloves. John Lobb shoes.
PHYS ED: Samuel Anderson wears a Louis Vuitton parka, $4,480, reversible vest with rabbit fur, $4,200, and cotton trousers, $575. At www. louisvuitton.com.
MODERN DRAMA: James Corden is in a Dries Van Noten leopard-print fur scarf, $460. At Jeffrey Atlanta New York, 449 West 14th Street. 4510, Dallas.
PHILOSOPHY: Samuel Barnett wears a Jil Sander wool sweater, $385, cotton shirt, $235, and wool pants, $600. At Jil Sander, 11 East 57th Street and Chicago. Allen-Edmonds shoes.
CLASSICS: Sacha Dhawan is in a Dsquared tuxedo jacket, $1,595, pants, $795, vest, $745, shirt, $695, and bow tie. Jacket, vest, shirt and tie at Bergdorf Goodman. Pants at Gito, Englewood, N.J. Baldwin formalwear top hat. Alexander McQueen evening scarf. (Fashion associate: Bifen Xu. Hair: John Barrett of the John Barrett Salon at Bergdorf Goodman. Makeup: Jane Choi for Kiehl's at ArtWingNY.com. Tailoring: Martin Keehn.)(Photographs by Roger Deckker
 Fashion Editor: Bruce Pask)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORE CURRICULUM (82%) Theater; Apparel

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



623 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Honoring Paterson's History

 BODY:
When Alexander Hamilton envisioned America as a mighty manufacturing power, freed from economic dependence on Europe, he had in mind an area that became the city of Paterson. With the Passaic River and the Great Falls to the west and New York to the east, Paterson was, in Hamilton's eyes, well-placed to become what he called the ''National Manufactory.'' 
 The Industrial Revolution in America was, to a great extent, born in Paterson. The city's contribution to American urbanization, industrialization, social justice and the arts is as profound as it is, regrettably, forgotten or ignored.
The Secretary of the Interior, Dirk Kempthorne, may soon have a rare opportunity to restore Paterson's place in state and national history. Prodded by the state's entire congressional delegation, the federal Park Service is studying a proposal to designate the city's historic district, already a national landmark, as a national park.
 When the study lands on Mr. Kempthorne's desk, he would do justice to a proud, beleaguered city by recommending that Congress create a new urban national park that documents and celebrates the city's role in the making of modern America.
 Advocates for park designation say the project would cost very little money, in part because some of the historic buildings are already in public hands. Start-up costs would be about $10 million, annual operating costs about $400,000. Some of the start-up money is available through state funding, and advocates say they will be able to raise private funds to help with yearly operating costs. In other words, not much of a drain on the public treasury.
 The danger, of course, is that a Paterson National Park could become a ''pork park,'' notable not for what it preserves but for what it reserves for patronage-hungry politicians. The system already has a few of these, and with its reputation for corruption and cronyism, New Jersey must make sure that local politicians keep their distance.
 The positives, though, seem greatly to outweigh the negatives. A national park within the streets of Paterson not only would preserve the old mills and homes, but would further expand the Park Service's mission to include the exploits and struggles of immigrants and urban workers. The nation obviously values the vast natural treasures of the West. But it ought to be just as important to preserve reminders of the people who lived and worked in the nation's cities during a pivotal time in American history.
 Long after Hamilton's death, Paterson became an important manufacturing center, nicknamed ''Silk City'' after its best-known textile. The city's workers, many of them Italian immigrants, led the fight for decent wages and better working conditions, culminating in a landmark strike against the silk industry in 1913.
 The city's history and culture inspired the epic poem ''Paterson'' by William Carlos Williams, a native of Rutherford. And the natural beauty of the Great Falls, the second-largest falls east of the Mississippi, still inspires tourists from all over the world.
 History, culture and natural beauty - the very things the Park Service seeks to preserve - make this site worthy of designation as a national park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (91%); HISTORY (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); HISTORIC SITES (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); URBANIZATION (71%); TEXTILES (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (50%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Patronage; Editorials; Urban Areas; National Parks, Monuments and Seashores

PERSON: DIRK KEMPTHORNE (78%) Dirk (Sec) Kempthorne

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (90%) Paterson (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



624 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Investor Unfriendly

BYLINE: By Mitchell E. Hersh. 
Mitchell E. Hersh is the chief executive of Mack-Cali Realty Corporation.

DATELINE: Cranford 

 BODY:
DESPITE optimistic comments from some politicians, New Jersey's economy is sure to suffer over the next decade and longer if structural change is not made now. That is why Gov. Jon Corzine is right to call for the special summer legislative session, which began last week, to reform the state's tax scheme.
 While New Jersey is one of the wealthiest states, at the start of the year, it was one of only two states to face a major budget deficit. We shared this distinction with Louisiana, which had a much better excuse, considering the devastation wrought by Hurricane Katrina. At the same time, New Jersey has the highest combined sales, property and income tax rate in the nation, which shows how deep the problems run. Making matters worse, corporate and property taxes are the highest in the nation. 
Has the market responded to this? Yes, and in a dramatic way. New Jersey's economic strength came from two industries -- pharmaceuticals and telecommunications -- with high-paying, technologically advanced jobs. But a recent study by James Hughes and Joseph Seneca of Rutgers University found that while these types of jobs are increasing throughout the United States, they are decreasing in New Jersey. 
 At the same time, reports show public-sector jobs have surged by more than 50,000 in the first half of this decade. Both trends are opposite what they should be and can be linked directly to the state's destructive tax policy. Business executives making investment decisions cannot reasonably say New Jersey is the best place to grow. 
 With the tax rates where they are, the golden goose has been squeezed quite literally to death and the governor is right to call for change. That said, these problems were not created in a day nor can they be fixed in a day. But to a market already skeptical of New Jersey, moving in the right direction is an important signal to send.
 Those unwilling to bring about structural tax change in New Jersey will say our prime location between Philadelphia and New York makes us unbeatable. But that made sense only when taxes were lower. For example, Pennsylvania is six times larger than New Jersey and has four million more residents, yet the state budget is about 25 percent smaller than New Jersey's. Moreover, joined with the much lower tax rate is a robust incentive program to lure corporations back to inner-city Philadelphia.
 It's working because New Jersey's location matters little when Philadelphia and its suburbs are a better financial deal. The same applies in New York, where the budget surplus makes it easy for the state to beat any incentive programs New Jersey can offer. 
 What should the governor look to accomplish in this special session? First, property tax reform is an important place to start but it should not be the end. While it might sound counterintuitive, Governor Corzine should also push to immediately cut the highest income tax rate. About 40 percent of the income tax and a significant portion of the property tax is paid by the top 2 percent of tax filers. 
 But as we have seen, high-end jobs are leaving the state, so in the long run the gains from the highest tax bracket are lost. To help encourage them to return, and with it the intellectual capital they create, the personal income tax rate should be cut enough to keep New Jersey an attractive place to live. 
 Second, the governor must lower the corporate tax rate, which in addition to being the highest in the nation is substantially higher than New York's and Pennsylvania's. Again, corporations are showing their dissatisfaction with being squeezed by investing in expansion elsewhere. It is a strategy that is hurting New Jersey today and will only get worse as other states make themselves more attractive for investment.
 Finally, to truly reform property taxes, the stunning number of municipal governments and boards of education in the state must be reduced. Home rule was fine in a less competitive time, but today New Jersey really can't afford such large expenditures at the local level.
 These are not easy decisions, but doing nothing or next to nothing will undoubtedly make a grave situation worse. Strong action will tell investors that indeed New Jersey is the place to invest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX REFORM (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (70%); HURRICANE KATRINA (70%); HURRICANES (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INCOME TAX (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%) Taxation; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%) Mitchell E Hersch; Jon S (Gov) Corzine

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



625 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Still the Wrong Man for the U.N.

 BODY:
When President Bush nominated John Bolton as ambassador to the United Nations last year, we argued that this convinced unilateralist and lifelong disparager of the United Nations should not be confirmed. The Senate agreed. Mr. Bush sent him to New York anyway, using the constitutional end run of a recess appointment. That appointment expires in January. 
 Now the Senate is being asked to confirm Mr. Bolton again. With one of last year's critics, George Voinovich, Republican of Ohio, having recently changed sides, confirmation seems more likely. But after a year of watching Mr. Bolton at work, we still believe the Senate should reject his nomination.
As ambassador, Mr. Bolton's performance has been more restrained than many of his opponents feared. He has, as far as we know, faithfully carried out any instructions he was given. And on some issues, like this spring's botched reform of the United Nations' human-rights monitoring body, Mr. Bolton was right not to accept a bad result.
 But over all, American interests at the U.N. have suffered from Mr. Bolton's time there, and will suffer more if the Senate confirms him in the job. At a time when a militarily and diplomatically overstretched Washington needs as much international cooperation as it can get -- on Iraq, on Iran, on North Korea and now on the latest fighting between Israel and Lebanon -- Mr. Bolton is a liability, not an asset at the United Nations. 
 No ambassador, however tactful and multilateral-minded, can persuade other countries to change their votes on high-profile issues in the face of contrary instructions from their home governments. But some of the most important business that goes on in the U.N. does not fall into that category. On a wide range of issues -- winning the support of smaller countries for needed management reforms, mobilizing a strong international coalition to halt genocide in Darfur, attracting wider European support for stabilization and economic development in Iraq -- an effective ambassador can make a huge difference.
 Mr. Bolton, by temperament and conviction, is far too dismissive of the results that can be achieved by this kind of traditional diplomacy. That is what makes him the wrong man for the job. America desperately needs to repair the alliances and relationships damaged by the shoot-from-the-hip diplomacy of the Bush first term. It simply cannot afford to write off the possibility of winning back hearts and minds at the United Nations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); GENOCIDE (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (70%) Editorials; United States Foreign Service; Appointments and Executive Changes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (73%) George W (Pres) Bush; John R (Amb) Bolton

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SUDAN (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



626 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Public's Deficit Fix May Stun Politicians

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
NEVER mind the movie. This was the real Mission Impossible.
 Could three dozen ordinary American adults who had never met before -- a group that included fresh college graduates, retired schoolteachers and a self-employed business owner -- reach agreement on how to prevent a fiscal train wreck? Could they do any better than their elected leaders in Washington, and were they willing to make any sacrifices?
Those were the central questions behind a daylong exercise here aimed at exploring public attitudes on the gap between taxes paid and promises made. 
 The effort, conducted two weeks ago, was sponsored by three policy research groups with very different political views: the Brookings Institution, home to many centrist Democrats; the Heritage Foundation, a conservative stronghold that has staunchly supported President Bush's tax cuts and pushed for much deeper cuts in government spending; and the Concord Coalition, a bipartisan group that advocates fiscal discipline but is essentially neutral on whether it should come from higher taxes or lower spending. 
 Participants in the session were given a whirlwind tour of the nation's fiscal woes and then prodded to find out what solutions they could -- and could not -- agree on. The discussions here, along with two other sessions in Kansas City and San Diego, were run by Viewpoint Learning, a firm founded by the pollster Daniel Yankelovich. 
 The question for the researchers was this: do American voters, in their diversity and their focus on self-interest, share any consensus about making hard choices, or even on the need to make hard choices? 
 The researchers are still analyzing the results, to be published later this summer. But the session in Philadelphia left some strong impressions on a reporter permitted to observe it. Among them:
 The participants didn't hate taxes nearly as much as many Republicans think.
 They seemed to treasure Social Security and Medicare in their current forms, but were more open to change than many Democrats think. 
 None of the participants pushed for less defense spending, even if the war in Iraq were to wind down.
 Nobody could agree on a single government program that ought to be cut or eliminated altogether.
 The good news was that people here appeared less polarized and more open to sharing burdens than do their elected leaders in Washington. The bad news was that the Philadelphia group thought the best solutions were to tax other people (smokers, drinkers, S.U.V. buyers, the rich) or to somehow ''spend smarter.'' 
 In that sense, participants were much like their elected representatives. The difference was that people were willing to contemplate higher taxes or other measures considered taboo in one party or the other. 
 Virtually no one needed to be persuaded that the federal budget is on an unsustainable path. Everyone accepted that federal spending has ballooned under President Bush, but that taxes have lagged far behind. The federal deficit is likely to be ''only'' about $300 billion this year, but deficits over the next 10 years could total more than $2 trillion if today's policies remain unchanged. 
 The gravest fiscal problem begins at the end of this decade, when the nation's 76 million baby boomers start to retire and claim old-age benefits. By 2050, according to the Congressional Budget Office, outlays for Medicare and Social Security alone would be higher than the government's total spending today.
 Participants were given four strategies for tackling the problem. The first was do nothing, but wait and hope that economic growth eliminated the need for big changes. 
 The second approach put a priority on ''keeping our promises to the elderly'' while raising taxes and cutting spending in other areas. 
 The third was to ''increase personal responsibility and choice,'' shifting Medicare and Social Security from government financing to individual investment-type accounts. 
 The last strategy was to ''invest in the future,'' putting more money into education and economic development, but raising taxes and trimming old-age programs.
 Not surprisingly, many people appeared overwhelmed at first. But nobody needed to be persuaded about the magnitude of the problem, and no one endorsed ''wait and hope,'' the de facto strategy in Washington.
 More surprising, virtually all the participants agreed on the need for higher taxes. Many supported a repeal of Mr. Bush's tax cuts of 2001.
 That contrasted sharply with the adamant opposition to tax increases among Republican leaders, especially President Bush. But the openness to at least talking about higher taxes appeared unanimous among those in the Philadelphia group, including those who described themselves as supporters of Mr. Bush.
 ''I was surprised that so many people were in favor of higher taxes, but I think it's a good thing,'' said Anthony Condo, a construction contractor in his 50's and a strong Bush supporter. ''If taxes went up to lower the deficit, and I knew they were being used for that, I would be in favor of it.''
 This isn't to say that tax increases amount to a winning election issue. ''Focus groups and polls create a kind of laboratory with conditions that don't always exist in the real world,'' said Geoffrey D. Garin, president of Peter D. Hart Research, a polling company that does work for many Democratic candidates (and was not involved in the Philadelphia exercise). 
 ''When you have a linear conversation with people, where they concentrate their attention on the idea of trade-offs, they very frequently end up at a place like this.'' said Mr. Garin. ''The problem is that, in the real world, these sorts of linear conversations don't exist.''
 WHEN the subject shifted to reducing government spending, the group seemed less successful. Few if any people thought military spending was too high -- even if the United States withdrew from Iraq. Nor was there agreement on other programs to cut. Most wanted more money for education, and many wanted more money for prescription drugs. Budget cuts, such as they were, involved ''smarter'' spending and a crackdown on waste, fraud and abuse. 
 At times during the day, it was possible to sympathize with lawmakers who throw up their arms and shift the debate to flag-burning. 
 Still, people seemed willing to accept change. Despite intense support for Social Security, for example, many said that workers should be encouraged to postpone retirement. And despite support for Medicare, there was approval for reducing ''heroic'' high-technology measures that might keep very old and very ill people alive for a few weeks or months.
 So if there was a message, it was not that people wanted to dodge tough choices. It was that they wanted good ideas from their leaders.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Philadelphia residents complete a survey earlier this month on addressing the federal budget deficit, which may reach $300 billion this year. (Photo by David Lee/Viewpoint Learning)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); TAX LAW (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); IRAQ WAR (68%); MEDICARE (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (50%) Taxation; Public Opinion; Elections; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%); HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (56%) Brookings Institution; Heritage Foundation; Concord Coalition; Viewpoint Learning (Co)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) United States; Philadelphia (Pa); United States

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2006



627 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: The Tabloid Photographer Who Turned Us Into a Nation of Gawkers

BYLINE: By ADAM COHEN

 BODY:
Weegee, the great tabloid photographer of the 1940's and 50's, took a remarkable picture of Veronica Lake. The legendary movie star and pinup model is shot from behind, so only her fur-coat-covered back and neatly coiffed hair can be seen. The picture's real focus is a group of fans staring at her, their faces unsmiling, and more than a little menacing.
 The image is part of ''Unknown Weegee,'' a gripping exhibition at the International Center of Photography. Weegee's classic film-noir style is represented in black-and-white pictures of blanket-draped corpses on sidewalks, and more elegantly chilling fare, like the picture of a fashionable young woman covering her face with black-gloved hands, entitled ''Irma Twiss Epstein, Nurse Accused of Killing Baby.'' 
The most intriguing photos, though, are the crowd shots, like ''Veronica Lake,'' that capture people on the street gazing too intently at celebrities, accidents and crime scenes. 
 Weegee's photography is credited with helping create American tabloid journalism, paving the way for The National Enquirer and TV shows like ''America's Most Wanted.'' But the crowd shots are a reminder that in the process, Weegee also helped turn America into a nation of gawkers.
 Arthur Fellig, a Polish-Jewish immigrant who grew up on the Lower East Side, got his big break when he was hired by PM, a crusading left-wing newspaper. He acquired his famous nickname because of his Ouija-boardlike ability to find his way to a good photographic scene. The first photographer to have a police radio in his car, Weegee was almost invariably the first one to show up after a body hit the pavement.
 Weegee's brilliance at capturing the seedy underbelly of mid-20th-century New York is on full display in ''Unknown Weegee.'' There are perp walks and car crash victims, and a wide array of pictures of untimely death, including one titled ''This Screaming Girl Has Suddenly Realized That the Body Lying Under the Blanket Is That of Her Mother.''
 Weegee had a gift for highlighting the unexpected, stylish and even humorous aspects of dark scenes. The subject of ''Mrs. Anna Sheehan Accused as Murderess,'' with her fine fur-collared coat and elegant hat, looks as if she is on her way to a swank nightclub. A photo titled ''Cop Who Looks Like Gary Cooper Books Blind Man for Murder'' is precisely that.
 The cover of the exhibition catalog features ''Faces in the Crowd,'' a stark picture of people looking straight ahead, and an essay inside underscores the attention Weegee paid to the ''city of eyes, joined together by curiosity.'' This emphasis is appropriate. Weegee's endlessly curious crowds -- in photos like ''Looking at the Body of Salvatore Sutera, Murder Victim'' and ''At an East Side Murder'' -- are in many ways as fascinating, and as unsettling, as the sensational scenes they are taking in.
 Weegee manages to make his movie fans look just as disturbing as his crime scene oglers. ''Everyone Enjoys the Show,'' a photograph of a theater audience, focuses on a woman whose inordinate delight makes her appear more than a little grotesque. The young boys peering in through the windows in ''Woman Signing Autographs in Car'' look as if they might be planning to beat up a schoolmate after the car pulls away.
 Weegee's photographs allowed hundreds of thousands of newspaper readers, in the privacy of their own homes, to join these mesmerized crowds. His tabloid photos have, since then, been supplanted by cable television and the Internet, which allow Americans to be part of the 24-hour media circuses that endlessly rehash the legal sagas of people like Michael Jackson and Scott Peterson.
 Living as we now do in a tabloid culture, it is hard not to identify with Weegee's ravenously curious onlookers, but it is also hard not to feel a bit wistful, and even worried, about what Weegee has wrought. 
 In his book ''Amusing Ourselves to Death,'' the cultural critic Neil Postman warned that the ''age of show business'' is not only degrading the culture but also undermining democracy. 
 While some people worry about America becoming an Orwellian dystopia, the nation as totalitarian prison, the greater threat, Mr. Postman argued, is Aldous Huxley's, from ''Brave New World,'' of America becoming a mindless burlesque. No good can come, he cautioned, ''when cultural life is redefined as a perpetual round of entertainments, when serious public conversation becomes a form of baby-talk, when, in short, a people become an audience and their public business a vaudeville act.''
 As the nation struggles in an Iraqi quagmire, the economy sputters, and the world turns more intently against us, the American viewing public -- the direct descendants of Weegee's inquisitive street crowds -- is growing ever more fascinated by ''CSI''-style criminal procedurals and celebrity babies. 
 If a fraction of the people who instant messaged their votes for ''American Idol'' had called their congressmen to demand a minimum wage increase, we would not have gone nearly a decade without one.
 The most alluring images in ''Unknown Weegee,'' like ''Ermine-Wrapped Patron Caught in Gambling Den'' or ''Virginia Ornmark, Gun Girl,'' are hard to turn away from. That is their genius, and their peril. Looking at Weegee's shots of transfixed crowds, caught in the spell of the lurid, one cannot help but share their fascination -- and wonder if it wouldn't have been better if a policeman had shown up to say, ''Move along, there is nothing to see here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: [Veronica Lake], 1942 (Photo by Weegee $
 Weegee/International Center of Photography)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOJOURNALISM (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); FILM (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); MURDER (77%); LIBERAL MEDIA (73%); FILM GENRES (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); JOURNALISM (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (67%) 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (84%); THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (57%) International Center of Photography (NYC)

PERSON: Adam Cohen; Weegee (Arthur Fellig) (1899-1968)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006



628 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 319 words

 BODY:

JOBS AND CARS -- While the most hotly awaited economic report will be unemployment numbers for July (Friday), there will also be auto sales for July (Tuesday) and same-store retail sales (Thursday). Other reports include the Chicago purchasing managers' index for July (Monday) and personal income and spending for June (Tuesday). On Capitol Hill, the Senate will hold a hearing on the use of offshore trusts and corporations to dodge tax and money laundering laws. (Tuesday). 


DEBUT SPEECH -- Henry M. Paulson Jr., the former chairman of Goldman Sachs, will deliver his first policy address since he became Treasury Secretary last month. He will speak at Columbia Business School and is expected to tackle a broad subject: the state of the domestic and global economies. (Tuesday.)

HACKERS UNITE -- The annual Defcon convention for computer hackers starts Friday in Las Vegas. Although the routine activities include, according to the conference Web site, ''coffee wars, Wi-Fi shootouts, robot contests, TCP/IP contests, movie marathons, scavenger hunts, sleep deprivation'' and more, some of the real excitement may come from the federal law enforcement agents who will be in attendance.

FACT FANS UNITE -- The second annual Wikimania conference, for people who contribute regularly to the Internet encyclopedia Wikipedia, starts Friday at Harvard Law School in Cambridge, Mass. Wikipedia, the sprawling anyone-can-edit-it Web site, calls Wikimania ''both a scientific conference and a community event.''

MORE EARNINGS -- This week the following companies report earnings: Humana, MetLife and Tyson Foods (Monday); Eastman Kodak, Electronic Arts, Electronic Data Systems, IAC/InterActiveCorp, International Paper, Loews, Qwest and Verizon (Tuesday); Cigna, Clorox, Lazard, Procter & Gamble, Starbucks and Time Warner (Wednesday); Revlon, Sprint Nextel, Tyco, Unilever and Warner Music (Thursday); and Toyota (Friday).

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); LAWYERS (72%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (72%); TAX FRAUD (71%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (67%); MONEY LAUNDERING (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (65%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (64%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (53%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (53%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (53%); CIGNA CORP (53%); TYSON FOODS INC (53%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (53%)

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (65%); S (NYSE) (64%); GS (NYSE) (57%); VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); UNIA (AMS) (53%); UNA (BIT) (53%); UNA (AMS) (53%); UN (NYSE) (53%); ULVR (LSE) (53%); UL (NYSE) (53%); EA (NASDAQ) (53%); CI (NYSE) (53%); TSN (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (65%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (65%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (65%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (53%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (53%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (53%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (53%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (53%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006



629 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Crackdown Makes the Pleasures of 'a Cultural Thing' Riskier 

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM; Kate Hammer contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
It is called khat or tchat or miraa, and like sugared tea or a drag of apple tobacco from a water pipe, a dollop of it stuffed in a cheek releases a taste from home. 
 In New York, chewers of khat, a plant used as a stimulant, buy it to enjoy at the holidays or to share at weddings or bachelor parties. Some people chew the reddish-green plant daily. Others use it only on the weekends, cheeks bulging, and trade jokes in Amharic or Arabic or Somali.
''At social gatherings, it's normal,'' said Abdul Mubarez, 45, the president of the Yemeni-American Association, based in Brooklyn. ''It's a cultural thing, not an addiction.'' 
 But khat is illegal in the United States, and a crackdown by federal and city law enforcement officers has made the easy pleasure of consuming it riskier, khat chewers say. 
 More than a decade ago, khat was sold more or less openly, in delis and cafes in Harlem and Brooklyn frequented by immigrants from countries where the plant is grown or chewed. Now, bags or bundles of the shrub are obtained mainly through phone calls to sellers. 
 On a recent evening, a group of men, all but one of them of Yemeni descent, stood on a sidewalk in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, and discussed benefits ascribed to the drug. 
 ''Some people chew seven days a week,'' said one man, explaining that frequent chewers were not addicts, but usually shopkeepers or other merchants who work 12-hour days. 
 Khat, which is also associated with sexual stamina, is meant to power them through these long shifts. Students also find that it enhances concentration, the men said.
 Last week, 30 people who the authorities said were members of the country's largest khat distribution network were arrested in New York and elsewhere. 
 The plant, though it is legal in some European countries, is classified as a controlled substance in the United States, in the same class of drugs as heroin and marijuana. 
 The suspects were charged not only with smuggling, distributing and selling khat but also with laundering money, through the use of informal money remitters. 
 That charge has raised fears that khat-chewing, a practice that in parts of East Africa and the Arabian Peninsula is considered as normal as sipping a cup of coffee, will be associated with terrorism. 
 ''It used to be just a social issue,'' said one Yemeni man, who refused to give his name. ''Now, it's a political issue,'' he said. 
 A spokesman for the federal Drug Enforcement Administration, John P. Gilbride, said the suspects had not been connected to terrorism or violence, though the investigation continued. 
 And he said the authorities had focused on khat primarily because it was considered harmful and had not yet found a mainstream audience. While primarily a euphoric stimulant, khat can have side effects, including hypertension, hallucinations, impotence and bouts of violence, prosecutors said. 
 Khat has been connected to at least one murder, in 2004, when a man shot and killed a woman while trying to steal khat from a house in Minneapolis, Mr. Gilbride said. 
 The plant, which is chewed by people in a swath of land stretching from Tanzania to Yemen, became more widely known to Americans during the military intervention in Somalia in 1992. 
 The debate over khat in Africa and Yemen, broadly speaking, focuses on economic and social impacts, including claims that it drains resources that would be better used to grow other crops. 
 Seizures of khat coming to the United States peaked in 2003, when federal authorities confiscated about 90,000 pounds in New York alone. Since then, Mr. Gilbride said, the amount of khat seized has declined slightly. 
 Arrests and seizures of khat in several Cobble Hill cafes six years ago put an end to the leaves' ready accessibility, said the men on the sidewalk. 
 Efforts to eradicate the drug have also made it more expensive. In New York, the price of khat has perhaps doubled in the last five years, buyers and sellers said. 
 ''I work for a day, and then I can buy it,'' said Adeel Abdul, 24, an employee of a deli in Harlem. Even then, he said, ''it's expensive, and it's not good.'' 
 A bunch of fresh leaves -- usually 10 to 12 stems -- costs about $50. But fresh leaves are the hardest to come by. Far more common are the dried leaves, some of which are imported not from East Africa or Yemen but from Guyana, in South America. The dried variety, considered inferior, is dampened with water or tea and then chewed. 
 A writer, Kevin Rushby, described the effects of khat in his book ''Eating the Flowers of Paradise'' (Palgrave Macmillan, 1999). ''No rush,'' he wrote, ''just a silky transition, scarcely noticed, and then the room casts loose its moorings.'' 
 But Hamud Alsilwi, the principal of an Islamic school in Yonkers, said that it was an ugly habit -- ''like animals chewing grass'' -- and an unwelcome diversion. ''It's illegal,'' he said, ''and they waste time, and they waste money.''


CORRECTION-DATE: August 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about the arrest of 30 people in New York and elsewhere on charges of smuggling khat, a plant that produces a mild euphoria when chewed, referred incorrectly to the plant on first reference. It is a stimulant, not a narcotic. (The error also appeared in some copies of an article on Monday about the reaction of khat chewers to the arrests.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a regular gathering of Ethiopians in Harlem who chew khat, a mild stimulant, a woman holds a bowl containing leaves of the khat plant. (Photo by Kareem Fahim/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (86%); SMUGGLING (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); RETAILERS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (70%); MONEY LAUNDERING (69%); CANNABIS (69%); HEROIN (69%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (66%); TERRORISM (63%); ARRESTS (62%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Khat (Drug) ; Law and Legislation; Drug Abuse and Traffic

PERSON: Kareem Fahim

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); SOMALIA (79%) East Africa; Yemen; United States; New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006



630 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3833 words

HEADLINE: Men Not Working, and Not Wanting Just Any Job

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE and DAVID LEONHARDT; Amanda Cox contributed reporting for this article from New York.

DATELINE: ROCK FALLS, Ill. 

 BODY:
Alan Beggerow has stopped looking for work. Laid off as a steelworker at 48, he taught math for a while at a community college. But when that ended, he could not find a job that, in his view, was neither demeaning nor underpaid.
 So instead of heading to work, Mr. Beggerow, now 53, fills his days with diversions: playing the piano, reading histories and biographies, writing unpublished Western potboilers in the Louis L'Amour style -- all activities once relegated to spare time. He often stays up late and sleeps until 11 a.m.
''I have come to realize that my free time is worth a lot to me,'' he said. To make ends meet, he has tapped the equity in his home through a $30,000 second mortgage, and he is drawing down the family's savings, at the rate of $7,500 a year. About $60,000 is left. His wife's income helps them scrape by. ''If things really get tight,'' Mr. Beggerow said, ''I might have to take a low-wage job, but I don't want to do that.'' 
 Millions of men like Mr. Beggerow -- men in the prime of their lives, between 30 and 55 -- have dropped out of regular work. They are turning down jobs they think beneath them or are unable to find work for which they are qualified, even as an expanding economy offers opportunities to work. 
 About 13 percent of American men in this age group are not working, up from 5 percent in the late 1960's. The difference represents 4 million men who would be working today if the employment rate had remained where it was in the 1950's and 60's.
 Most of these missing men are, like Mr. Beggerow, former blue-collar workers with no more than a high school education. But their ranks are growing at all education and income levels. Refugees of failed Internet businesses have spent years out of work during their 30's, while former managers in their late 40's are trying to stretch severance packages and savings all the way to retirement. 
 Accumulated savings can make dropping out more affordable at the upper end than it is for Mr. Beggerow, but the dynamic is often the same -- the loss of a career and of a sense that one's work is valued. 
 ''These are men forced to compete to get back into the work force, and even then they cannot easily reconstruct what many lost in a former job,'' said Thomas A. Kochan, a labor and management expert at the Sloan School of Management at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''So they stop trying.''
 Many of these men could find work if they had to, but with lower pay and fewer benefits than they once earned, and they have decided they prefer the alternative. It is a significant cultural shift from three decades ago, when men almost invariably went back into the work force after losing a job and were more often able to find a new one that met their needs. 
 ''To be honest, I'm kind of looking for the home run,'' said Christopher Priga, who is 54 and has not had steady work since he lost a job with a six-figure income as an electrical engineer at Xerox in 2002. ''There's no point in hitting for base hits,'' he explained. ''I've been down the road where I did all the things I was supposed to do, and the end result of that is nil.'' 
 Instead, Mr. Priga supports himself by borrowing against the rising value of his Los Angeles home. Other men fall back on wives or family members.
 But the fastest growing source of help is a patchwork system of government support, the main one being federal disability insurance, which is financed by Social Security payroll taxes. The disability stipends range up to $1,000 a month and, after the first two years, Medicare kicks in, giving access to health insurance that for many missing men no longer comes with the low-wage jobs available to them. 
 No federal entitlement program is growing as quickly, with more than 6.5 million men and women now receiving monthly disability payments, up from 3 million in 1990. About 25 percent of the missing men are collecting this insurance. 
 The ailments that qualify them are usually real, like back pain, heart trouble or mental illness. But in some cases, the illnesses are not so serious that they would prevent people from working if a well-paying job with benefits were an option.
 The disability program, in turn, is an obstacle to working again. Taking a job holds the risk of demonstrating that one can earn a living and is thus no longer entitled to the monthly payments. But staying out of work has consequences. Skills deteriorate, along with the desire for a paying job and the habits that it requires.
 ''The longer you stay on disability benefits,'' said Martin H. Gerry, deputy commissioner for disability and income security at the Social Security Administration, ''the longer you're out of the work force, the less likely you are to go back to work.''
 As a rule, out-of-work men are less educated than the population as a whole. Their numbers have grown sharply among black men and men who live in hard-hit industrial areas like Michigan, West Virginia and upstate New York, as well as those who live in rural states like Mississippi and Oklahoma.
 The missing men are also more likely to live alone. Nearly 60 percent are divorced, separated, widowed or never married, up from 50 percent a decade earlier, the Census Bureau reports. Sometimes women who are working throw out men who are not, says Kathryn Edin, a sociologist at the University of Pennsylvania. In any case, without a household to support, there is less pressure to work, and for men who fall behind on support payments, an incentive exists to work off the books -- hiding employment -- so that wages cannot be garnisheed.
 ''What happens to a lot of guys who become unmoored from family life, they become unmoored from everything,'' Ms. Edin said. ''They are just living without attachments and by the time they are 40 or 50 years old, the things that kept these men from falling away -- family and community life -- are gone.''
 Even as more men are dropping out of the work force, more women are entering it. This change has occurred partly because employment has shrunk in industries where men predominated, like manufacturing, while fields where women are far more common, like teaching, health care and retailing, have grown. Today, about 73 percent of women between 30 and 54 have a job, compared with 45 percent in the mid-1960's, according to an analysis of Census data by researchers at Queens College. Many women without jobs are raising children at home, while men who are out of a job tend to be doing neither family work nor paid work.
 Women are also making inroads in fields where they were once excluded -- as lawyers and doctors, for example, and on Wall Street. Men still make significantly more money than women, but as women become more educated than men, even more men may end up out of the work force. 
 At the low end of the spectrum, men emerging from prison with felony records are not easily absorbed into steady employment. Hundreds of thousands of young men were jailed in the 1980's and 1990's, in a surge of convictions for drug-related crimes. As prisoners, they were not counted in the employment data; as ex-prisoners they are. They are now being freed in their 30's and 40's and are struggling to be hired. Roughly two million men in this group have prison records, according to a calculation by Richard Freeman and Harry J. Holzer, labor economists at Harvard and the Urban Institute, respectively.Many of these men do not find work because oftheir records.
 Despite their great numbers, many of the men not working are missing from the nation's best-known statistic on unemployment. The jobless rate is now a low 4.6 percent, yet that number excludes most of the missing men, because they have stopped looking for work and are therefore not considered officially unemployed. That makes the unemployment rate a far less useful measure of the country's well-being than it once was.
 Indeed, a larger share of working-age men are not working today than at almost any point in the last half-century, which raises the question of how they will get by as they age. They may be forced back to work after years of absence, they may fall into poverty, or they may be rescued by the government. This same trend is evident in other industrialized countries. In the European Union, 14 percent of men between 25 and 54 were not working last year, up from 7 percent in 1975, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Over the same period in Japan, the proportion of such men rose to 8 percent from 4 percent. 
 In these countries, too, decently paying blue-collar jobs are disappearing, and as they do men who held them fall back on government benefits for income. But the growth of subsidies through federal and state programs like disability insurance has happened largely without notice in this country while it is a major topic of political debate in Europe.
 ''We have a de facto welfare system as Europe does,'' said Teresa Ghilarducci, a labor economist at the University of Notre Dame. ''But we are not proud of it, as they are.'' 

Reading, Sleeping, Scraping By
 Alan Beggerow has not worked regularly in the five years since the steel mill that employed him for three decades closed. He and his wife, Cathleen, 47, cannot really afford to live without his paycheck. Yet with her sometimes reluctant blessing, Mr. Beggerow persists in constructing a way of life that he finds as satisfying as the work he did only in the last three years of his 30-year career at the mill. The trappings of this new life surround Mr. Beggerow in the cluttered living room of his one-story bungalow-style home in this half-rural, half-industrial prairie town west of Chicago. A bookcase covers an entire wall, and the books that Mr. Beggerow is reading are stacked on a glass coffee table in front of a comfortable sofa where he reads late into the night -- consuming two or three books a week -- many more than in his working years.
 He also gets more sleep, regularly more than nine hours, a characteristic of men without work. As the months pass, they average almost nine-and-a-half hours a night, about 80 minutes more than working men, according to an analysis of time-use surveys by Harley Frazis and Jay Stewart, economists at the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 Very few of the books Mr. Beggerow reads are novels, and certainly not the escapist Westerns that he himself writes (two in the last five years), his hope being that someday he will interest a publisher and earn some money. His own catholic tastes range over history -- currently the Bolshevik revolution and a biography of Charlemagne -- as well as music and the origins of Christianity. 
 He often has strong views about what he has just read, which he expresses in reviews that he posts on Amazon.com: 124 so far, he said.
 Always on the coffee table is a thick reference work, ''Guide to the Pianist's Repertoire'' by Maurice Hinson. Mr. Beggerow is a serious pianist now that he has the time to practice, sometimes two or three hours at a stretch. He does so on an old upright in a corner of the living room, a piano he purchased as a young steelworker, when he first took lessons.
 His new life began in the spring of 2001 with the closing of Northwestern Wire and Steel in Sterling, Ill., where he had worked since 1971. During the last three of those 30 years, Mr. Beggerow found himself assigned to work he really liked: as a union representative on union-management teams that assessed every aspect of the plant's operations. 
 What made him valuable was his dexterity as a writer. No one could put together committee reports as articulately as he did, and he found himself on nearly every team. His salary rose to $50,000. During those years, he taught himself more math, too, to help in the analyses of the issues that the teams tackled: productivity, safety, plant layout and the like.
 ''I actually loved that job,'' he said. ''I even looked forward to going to work. The more teams they had, the more they found out what I could do and the more I found out what I could do.''
 Mr. Beggerow would take another job in a heartbeat, he says, if it were like the work he did in those last three years at Northwestern. The closest he has gotten has been as an instructor at a community college, teaching plant maintenance and other useful factory skills. His students were from nearby manufacturing companies, which subsidized the courses, including his pay of $45 an hour. But factory operations in the area are shrinking, and Mr. Beggerow has not had a teaching stint since November.
 Like Mr. Beggerow, the great majority of the missing men are out of the work force for months or years at a time rather than drifting in and out of jobs. There appears to have been no rise since the 1960's in the percentage of men out of work for short periods, according to research by Chinhui Juhn, a University of Houston professor, and other economists.
 Mr. Beggerow will not take a lesser job, he says, because of his bitter memories of earlier years at Northwestern Wire, particularly the 1980's, when the industry was in turmoil. A powerful man, over 6 feet and 200 pounds, he worked then as a warehouseman. 
 What got to him was not the work. It was the frequent furloughs, the uncertainty whether he would be recalled, the mandatory overtime and 50-hour weeks often imposed when he did return, the schedules that forced him to work every holiday except Christmas, and then, as rising seniority finally gave him some protection, a six-month strike in 1983 followed by a wage cut. His pay shrank to $13 an hour from $17, a loss he did not fully recover until those last three years. 
 ''I was always thinking if there was some way I could get out of this, do something else,'' Mr. Beggerow said. ''What made me so upset was the insecurity of it all and the humiliation. I don't want to take a job that would put me through that again.'' 
 Shortly after Northwestern closed, Mr. Beggerow married. It was his third marriage, and also Cathleen's third. He has one adult child by the first wife; Cathleen has no children. For six months they lived on his $12,000 from a shrunken pension and her $28,000 as a factory worker -- until severe injuries in an auto accident five months after their wedding forced her out of that job. She eventually qualified for $12,000 a year in disability insurance.
 Their two incomes are not enough to cover expenses, which bothers Mrs. Beggerow, although not enough to badger her husband to take a job, any job. She respects him too much for that, she says. 
 Instead, she finds ways to make money herself, in activities she enjoys. She is taking in work as a seamstress, baking pastries for parties and selling merchandise for others on eBay, collecting a fee. Still, she says, she hopes to land a part-time clerical job. ''The comfort of a paycheck every week would take a load off my mind,'' she said. 
 While she is tolerant of her husband's reluctance to work, respecting his current pursuits, she is not above looking for a job he would consider suitable. ''I look at the employment ads every day,'' she said, ''and every so often I find one that I think might be right up his alley.''

Less Concern About the Future
 Recently there was an opening for an editor-writer at a small travel magazine published in a nearby town. ''I applied,'' Mr. Beggerow said, ''but the publisher did not seem to want someone my age.'' 
 Meanwhile the Beggerows' savings are shrinking. This year, for the first time, they have drawn down so much from their 401(k)'s they have been forced to pay early-withdrawal penalties. But Mr. Beggerow resists being stampeded.
 ''The future is always a concern, but I no longer allow myself to dwell on it,'' he said, waving aside, in his new and precarious life, the preparations for retirement and old age that were a feature of his 30 years as a steelworker.
 ''When you are in the mode of having money coming in,'' he explained, ''naturally you think about planning and saving. And then when you don't have the money coming in, you think less about the future, at least money-wise. It is still a concern, but not a concern that keeps me up at night, not in this life that I am now leading.''
 Men like Mr. Beggerow, neither working nor looking for a job, also have become more common in the popular culture, making the phenomenon more acceptable. On the television show ''Seinfeld,'' Cosmo Kramer, who did not work, and George Costanza, who regularly lost jobs, were beloved figures. Personal-finance magazines whose circulations have grown rapidly over the last 25 years also encourage not working -- by telling readers how to afford retirement at 50 and by painting not working as the good life, which it apparently is for a small number of wealthy men. About 8 percent of non-working men between 30 and 54 lived in households that had more than $100,000 of income in 2004.
 ''Men don't feel a need to be in a career, not as much as they once did,'' said Ruth Milkman, a sociologist at the University of California at Los Angeles. ''Nor do men have the incentive they once had to pursue a career, not when employers are no longer committed to them.'' 
 Mr. Priga, the former Xerox engineer who lives in Los Angeles, has been wandering in this latter Diaspora. He is a tall, thin man with a perpetually dour expression. His dress -- old jeans and a faded khaki shirt -- seemed out of place in the upscale Beverly Hills restaurant where he was interviewed for this article. But his education and skill were not out of place. 
 Mr. Priga is an electrical engineer skilled in computer technology, and much involved, as he tells the story, in writing early versions of Internet and e-mail software for banks and other companies. A divorce in 1996 left him with custody of his three children. One of them had behavioral problems and to care for the boy he dropped out of steady work for a while, mortgaging his house to raise money and designing Web sites as a freelancer.
 He re-entered the work force in 2000, joining Xerox at just over $100,000 a year as a systems designer for a new project, which did not last. In the aftermath of the dot-com bust, Xerox downsized and Mr. Priga was let go in January 2003.

From Prison to Joblessness
 ''I've been through a lot of layoffs over the years, and there is a certain procedure you follow,'' he said. ''You contact the headhunters. You go looking for other work. You do all of that, and this time around it didn't work.''
 So he went back to designing Web sites as a freelancer, postponing the purchase of health insurance. No work has come his way since March, and even if people had hired him to design Web sites for them, Mr. Priga would not consider that real employment.
 His father is his standard. At Mr. Priga's age, 54, ''my father was with Rockwell International designing the fiber optic backbone for U.S. Navy ships,'' he said. ''He got a regular paycheck. He had retirement benefits, medical benefits, all of that. I'm at that age and I don't see that as even possible. I've kind of written off the idea completely. I'm more like a casual laborer.''
 The Bureau of Labor Statistics determines who is working through a monthly survey of 65,000 representative households. People are asked if they did any work for pay in the week before the survey, including self-employment. For Mr. Beggerow and Mr. Priga, the answer has been no.
 The same goes for Rodney Bly, a 41-year-old Philadelphia man struggling with a prison record, although he has had income -- from off-the-books work that he refuses to think of as employment. 
 Mr. Bly, a lanky, neatly dressed six-footer, was in and out of jail, mostly on drug convictions, from 1996 until 2003, but has been clean since then, he said in an interview last month. He has even been a leader of an Alcoholics Anonymous-style group of former addicts who meet regularly and do their best to stay off drugs and out of jail. 
 Mr. Bly has been living in a recovery shelter for addicts and shows up occasionally for meals at St. Francis Inn, a soup kitchen and health clinic in a poor North Philadelphia neighborhood that tries to help ex-convicts get work and keep it. 
 He has worked pretty regularly, distributing flyers. But that brings him only $270 a week, most of which goes to the shelter for rent, utilities and food. More to the point, the work is off the books, which makes Mr. Bly invisible in the national statistics as a member of the work force. 
 Still, he has a girlfriend, reports Karen Pushaw, a staff member at St. Francis, ''and that grounds him, keeps him looking for legitimate work.'' 
 Ms. Pushaw tries to help. At her encouragement, he applied for 25 jobs this spring but received no offers, not even an interview. The obstacle is two felony convictions, one for car theft, the other for three instances of drug possession. 
 ''Because of the two felonies, I can't get a job as a security guard or a sales person or a short-order cook,'' Mr. Bly said. ''I can be a pot washer or a dish washer, but I can't get a job that pays more than $8 an hour, not a legitimate one. I'm excluded.'' 

The New Gender Divide
 Articles in this series are examining what has happened to men and women several decades after the women's movement began.
 A taped interview with Alan Beggerow and a state-by-state map showing men's joblessness going back to 1950 are available at nytimes.com/business.


EDUCATION

Less than high school
Men not working, age 30 to 54: 21%
Working men, age 30 to 54: 10%

High school
Men not working, age 30 to 54: 41
Working men, age 30 to 54: 32

Some college
Men not working, age 30 to 54: 24
Working men, age 30 to 54: 27

4+ years of college
Men not working, age 30 to 54: 14
Working men, age 30 to 54: 32

MARITAL STATUS

Married
Men not working, age 30 to 54: 41%
Working men, age 30 to 54: 70%

Never been married
Men not working, age 30 to 54: 22
Working men, age 30 to 54: 13

Separated, divorced, widowed
Men not working, age 30 to 54: 8
Working men, age 30 to 54: 9

HOUSEHOLD INCOME, 2004

Less than $25,000
Men not working, age 30 to 54: 43%
Working men, age 30 to 54: 9%

$25,000 to $50,000
Men not working, age 30 to 54: 28
Working men, age 30 to 54: 22

$50,000 to $100,000
Men not working, age 30 to 54: 21
Working men, age 30 to 54: 42

More than $100,000
Men not working, age 30 to 54: 8
Working men, age 30 to 54: 27

How 25- to 54-year-olds spend their time
Compared with men who work full time, men not working spend about 25 more hours each week watching television and pursuing other leisure and recreational activities.

Average hours per day

Not working

Housework and child care
MEN: 3.3
WOMEN: 6.3

Watching television
MEN: 4.5
WOMEN: 2.9

Other leisure and recreation
MEN: 3.2
WOMEN: 2.0

Sleeping
MEN: 9.3
WOMEN: 9.0

Working full time

Housework and child care
MEN: 2.3
WOMEN: 3.4

Watching television
MEN: 2.2
WOMEN: 1.7

Other leisure and recreation
MEN: 2.4
WOMEN: 1.7

Sleeping
MEN: 8.0
WOMEN: 8.2

(Sources by Labor Department; Jay Stewart, Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. A14)

CORRECTION-DATE: August 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Monday with an article about men who do not work misstated the percentage of working men and nonworking men from ages 30 to 54 who are separated, divorced or widowed. For working men, it is 17 percent, not 9 percent. For men not working, it is 37 percent, not 8 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FOUR YEARS WITHOUT WORK -- Christopher Priga, 54, has not had steady work since he lost a job with a six-figure income as an electrical engineer at Xerox in 2002. He supports himself by borrowing against his home in Los Angeles. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A14)
 Alan and Cathleen Beggerow have been scraping by since he lost his job in 2001, and he is not seeking work. (Photo by Sally Ryan for The New York Times)(pg. A1) Chart: ''Stepping Out of the Labor Force''Millions of men in their prime are disappearing from the work force. Today, more than one of every eight men age 30 to 54 does not work. Men not working tend to be less educated than the population as a whole and are less likely to be married.Percentage of 30- to 54-year-old men who are not workingGraph tracks percent of 30- to 54- year old men who are not working since 1965.Who they areRACE OR ETHNICITYWhiteMen not working, age 30 to 54: 61%Working men, age 30 to 54: 70%BlackMen not working, age 30 to 54: 19Working men, age 30 to 54: 9HispanicMen not working, age 30 to 54: 14Working men, age 30 to 54: 14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); MEN (88%); SEVERANCE PAY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); SECOND MORTGAGES (67%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); INTERNET & WWW (61%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); REFUGEES (50%) 

PERSON: Louis Uchitelle; David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006



631 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Sheriff Defies Transgressors By Billboard And by Blog

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

DATELINE: HAMILTON, Ohio, July 30 

 BODY:
''I'm outspoken about illegal aliens,'' Sheriff Richard K. Jones of Butler County told a visitor to his office. ''You may have picked up on that.'' 
 To eliminate doubts about his views, Sheriff Jones posted six billboards by roadways in this proudly conservative blue-collar county. ''Hire an illegal -- break the law!'' the signs warn, with a photograph of the sheriff.
He also took out half-page advertisements in local newspapers to convey his message, and he set up a blog to promote a boycott of local businesses that employ illegal immigrants. The sheriff then opened a tip line so citizens could report any employers they suspected. 
 And right outside the sheriff's office, yellow street signs read ''Illegal Aliens Here,'' with an arrow pointing to the adjoining jailhouse. 
 ''I wanted to let the federal government know that if they couldn't find any illegals, I've got some right here in my jail,'' said the sheriff, a conservative Republican. 
 The sheriff has drawn complaints from Hispanic business owners, who say their customers stay home and their sales drop whenever he speaks out. 
 ''Every time the sheriff talks on the radio, people call me to ask if the immigration police are in the street,'' said Miguel Garcia, 31, a legal Mexican immigrant who owns Supermercado Garcia, a grocery store in Hamilton. 
 In May, Sheriff Jones sent his deputies to a construction site after a report that tension was brewing between American and immigrant workers. He detained 18 immigrants for questioning, prompting objections from the American Civil Liberties Union that he had overstepped his authority. 
 Sheriff Jones says that he does not try to enforce federal immigration laws, but that he can apply state labor and tax laws to combat what he calls ''the underground economy.'' 
 His goal, he says, is to prevent labor exploitation. 
 ''People that hire illegals make lots of money on other people's backs,'' Sheriff Jones said. ''There isn't much sympathy for that in this county.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard K. Jones, an Ohio sheriff, is using billboards and other means to combat illegal immigration. (Photo by Mark Lyons for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); SHERIFFS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); TAX LAW (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) 

PERSON: Julia Preston; Richard K (Sheriff) Jones

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Butler County (Ohio)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006



632 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Officials Ask for Aid For Global War on Terror

BYLINE: By PAUL von ZIELBAUER; Qais Mizher and Ali Adeeb contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, July 30 

 BODY:
Two high-ranking Iraqi government officials said Sunday that their country was fighting international terrorists on its own soil on behalf of other countries and should, as a result, be compensated with economic and military assistance.
 Their comments suggested an emerging strategy from the fragile coalition government to portray Iraq as the global front line against terrorism and make a case for international aid.
In the continuing violence, the American military said four marines were killed in combat on Saturday in Anbar Province, a volatile region west of Baghdad where Sunni Arab insurgents have fiercely fought coalition forces. A total of eight marines have been killed in the province since Thursday, highlighting the danger still present in outlying regions as the Pentagon begins shifting American troops to Baghdad in an effort to quell rampant violence here. 
 The American military said it killed two militants in an airstrike in Baghdad on Sunday. The strike was aimed at a cell responsible for numerous attacks on civilians, but it also killed a child. 
 The comments by the two Iraqi officials, the national security adviser and a deputy prime minister, echo the argument adopted by the Bush administration after the invasion in 2003 to justify its actions after its original contention that Saddam Hussein possessed unconventional weapons proved unfounded. 
 ''We are fighting terrorism in Iraq, not only for Iraqis but also on behalf of the international community,'' said Barham Salih, a deputy prime minister, during a news conference that covered a wide range of economic, security and anticorruption initiatives. 
 The national security adviser, Mowaffak al-Rubaie, who also attended the news conference, made a statement of his own later using remarkably similar language. ''Iraq is now defending not only Iraqis but is also defending the region and the world,'' he said. ''So what is the world giving us in return?''
 Mr. Rubaie, answering the question he posed, said Iraq, with its economy foundering and security forces under siege, urgently needed economic and military aid. 
 Mahdi al-Hafith, a member of Parliament and former planning minister who leads an independent policy and development group here, said he did not expect that the apparently coordinated statements would have much impact. ''We should have some specific and concrete details,'' he said in an interview. ''Otherwise it is just a political statement.''
 Mr. Rubaie, Mr. Salih and the ministers of oil, finance and planning praised a five-year initiative with the United Nations announced last week to make the country more attractive to foreign investors by working to reduce corruption, create jobs and improve security. 
 Several American and European oil companies are foremost among the potential investors, eager for a share of Iraq's oil reserves, regarded as the second largest in the world.
 Mr. Salih said petroleum wealth was the key to Iraq's economic viability. ''We cannot accept any failure as Iraqis,'' he said flatly, seated next to the other officials in a conference room in the fortified Green Zone, ''because it will have grave economic and political consequences throughout the region.'' 
 Also on Sunday, 15 bodies were found in Baghdad; a car bomb exploded in a compound that houses the American and British Consulates and a state-owned oil company in Kirkuk, killing one person; a suicide bomber killed one person in Mosul; and a member of an insurgent group was killed, apparently by a member of a rival group, in Falluja, officials reported.
 In a statement, the United States military said the two militants killed in the airstrike on Sunday were members of an insurgent cell responsible for several recent mortar attacks on civilian neighborhoods here. 
 The assault with F-16 jets inadvertently killed one child, the military said. ''We believe that countless more Iraqis would have been at risk had we not taken immediate action,'' said Lt. Col. Barry Johnson, a military spokesman here. 
 The jets fired two guided 500-pound bombs into a building in the southwestern part of the city that the military said harbored the cell. ''Compelling intelligence,'' the statement said, showed that the cell was responsible for making car bombs and for Thursday's attack on a shopping mall in Baghdad's normally peaceful Karada neighborhood. That attack killed 32 people, wounded 102 and wiped out more than a dozen family-run businesses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (83%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); RANKINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); CORRUPTION (64%) 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Paul Von Zielbauer; Mowaffak Al- Rubaie; Barham Salih

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006



633 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; WHAT'S ON TONIGHT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 359 words

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:

8 P.M. (Bravo) INSIDE THE ACTORS STUDIO -- Until his turn on the Fox hit ''House'' as a doctor heavy on brains but light on 
 bedside manner, Hugh Laurie's career, at least in America, was more about mice and men. (He starred in three ''Stuart Little'' films.) Tonight Mr. Laurie (above) talks with James Lipton about life in England, where for a time he followed in his Olympian father's footsteps as an oarsman, and in Hollywood, where he prefers the anonymity his motorcycle helmet affords him.

9 P.M. (Fox) HELL'S KITCHEN -- Last week, Chef Ramsay sent Garrett, a former prisoner, packing after his attitude got the best of him. (There was a moment when he seemingly menaced someone with a 10-inch knife, but maybe that was all in the editing.) Now the final four contestants must work as a team. And suddenly no one is safe.

9 P.M. (Discovery) SHARK ATTACK SURVIVORS -- Helpful information on how not to become a great white's next meal.

9 P.M. (Sundance) AN ORDINARY FAMILY -- In Fredrik Gertten's documentary, a middleclass Argentine family starts over in another part of the world when the collapse of their country's economy in 2001 leaves them with nothing. Not even their dignity.

9 P.M. (TNT) THE CLOSER -- When fishermen discover the bodies of a Japanese mother and daughter in San Pedro Harbor,
 Brenda (Kyra Sedgwick, left) suspects ritualistic suicide. But then something evil this way comes.

10 P.M. (13) CEZANNE IN PROVENCE -- This high-definition tour through the Provencal locations that inspired some of Cezanne's greatest works is pretty as a picture, with expert evaluation by Philip Conisbee, senior curator for European paintings at the National Gallery of Art in Washington. Jacqueline Bisset is the tour guide.

10 P.M. (TNT) SAVED -- After a surprise visit from Alice's mother, Wyatt discovers a secret that forces him to rethink everything
 about their relationship, including why she left him.

10 P.M. (ABC) ONE OCEAN VIEW -- If you can't live it, you can at least watch it from the comfort of your own couch. In this new
 reality series, 11 single New Yorkers (above) share a place on Fire Island. You know the rest.
 KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Isabella Vosmikova/Fox)
(Photo by Carin Baer/TNT)
 (Photo by Bob D'Amico/ABC)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); PAINTING (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); CELEBRITIES (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (55%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (56%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: HUGH LAURIE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006



634 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Official Union Set Up in China At Wal-Mart 

BYLINE: By DAVID LAGUE; Don Greenlees and Michael Barbaro contributed reporting for this article.; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 30 

 BODY:
Workers at Wal-Mart Stores have formed their first trade union in China, after demands from the government that the company allow organized labor in its stores, according to reports in the official news media over the weekend.
 Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, has long sought to bar unions from its stores, particularly in the United States. But the government-controlled All-China Federation of Trade Unions has campaigned to set up branches in China, where Wal-Mart employs 30,000 people at 60 outlets.
 Any new union in China is unlikely to resemble its counterparts in the West. Labor activists often accuse the tightly controlled All-China Federation of siding with management rather than workers. The union, founded in 1925 during the era of Chinese Nationalist rule, says on its Web site that it has 134 million members. 
 Harley Shaiken, a labor economist at the University of California, Berkeley, said that China's state-backed unions were known for supporting, rather than challenging, foreign corporations.
 The pressure on the American retailer to agree to a union is part of a concerted drive to establish branches of the official union in all foreign-financed companies in China.
 ''The union will likely be quite compliant with management,'' Mr. Shaiken said. ''There might be a nudge now and again, but the union structure is designed to encourage this investment, not to challenge it.''
 On Saturday, at a Wal-Mart store in a southern province, Fujian, 25 employees elected Ke Yunlong, 29, as the chairman of a seven-member trade union committee, the official New China News Agency reported. Earlier, 30 Wal-Mart employees had applied to local labor authorities to register a union.
 ''According to China's trade union law,'' the agency's dispatch said, ''enterprises or institutions with 25 employees and above should establish trade unions.'' 
 Beth Keck, director of international corporate affairs for Wal-Mart, said the company was aware of media reports that employees in China had formed a union. She said that the company had not discussed the issue with the All-China Federation, but she acknowledged that the federation had earlier signaled its intention to try to unionize Wal-Mart's Chinese work force. 
 She added that the company hoped to have a ''cordial and productive relationship'' with the federation.
 ''We know they have been interested in having a relationship with our company for some time,'' Ms. Keck said. ''We will, of course, be looking forward to how this will evolve.''
 China, with a vast and growing pool of relatively affluent consumers, is an important market for Wal-Mart as it reorganizes its international operations. The company said Friday that it planned to sell its unprofitable business in Germany. In May, it withdrew from the South Korean retail market.
 But it has been growing rapidly in China since it opened its first store in the southern city of Shenzhen, these days a booming financial center, in 1996. It now has outlets in 29 cities.
 Ms. Keck said Wal-Mart recognized that its employees had the right to join a union at any of its workplaces. ''In every country we operate,'' she said, ''we follow the laws concerning labor relations.''
 Of the 15 countries in which the company owns work sites, she said, some Wal-Mart employees in Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Britain and Germany are union members. The United States is the ''clear exception,'' where no employees are union members, she added. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); AFFLUENT MARKET (60%); WEB SITES (54%) 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%) All-China Federation of Trade Unions; Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (97%)

PERSON: David Lague

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); FUJIAN, CHINA (59%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006



635 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: A Revitalized US Airways Is Creating a Merger Buzz 

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 30 

 BODY:
The surprising early success of US Airways Group, the result of a merger last year, has led to some behind-the-scenes talks among investors and airline executives that could lead to more industry consolidation in the months ahead.
 As Northwest Airlines and Delta Air Lines move through bankruptcy, which both entered last September, pressure may mount on almost all the major airlines to explore mergers. The bankruptcy process -- allowing reductions in labor costs and the shedding of airplanes and other assets -- can help otherwise incompatible partners realign their operations for a merger. 
US Airways shares have more than doubled since its merger with America West was completed last September. And last week, the carrier reported a second-quarter profit of $305 million, second only to Southwest Airlines, which dominates the industry. 
 US Airways narrowly out-earned American Airlines, which is nearly twice as big and had second-quarter profit of $291 million. And its profits were more than two-and-a-half times larger than the $119 million management expects to report at United Airlines, a far larger carrier that also emerged from bankruptcy but without the benefits of a merger partner.
 ''The primary driver of this turnaround is the merger,'' W. Douglas Parker, chief executive of US Airways, based in Tempe, Ariz., said last week in announcing the results.
 Mr. Parker, with about two years of work ahead to complete the integration of the two airlines, nevertheless placed a call about two months ago to Gerald Grinstein, the chief executive of Delta, to suggest that they discuss a possible combination, a US Airways spokeswoman, Elise Eberwein, confirmed. 
 Mr. Grinstein told Mr. Parker that Delta planned to reorganize and exit bankruptcy on its own. Delta declined comment. The call was reported Saturday in The Wall Street Journal.
 Ms. Eberwein said, however, that Mr. Parker made the call only after hearing that other airlines had been approaching Delta and to counter the widely held notion that US Airways was too busy completing its recent merger to get involved in another combination.
 According to Ms. Eberwein, Mr. Parker told Mr. Grinstein: ''If you do decide to do something, don't think we're somebody not to be considered just because we're in the middle of our merger.''
 The most likely candidates to pursue Delta include United and Northwest. A merger might help United overcome its slow start since exiting bankruptcy earlier this year. And a merger could help Northwest raise capital for its planned exit early next year.
 Neither airline would comment on possible mergers.
 One senior airline executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of a corporate policy against such comments, said that despite the jockeying under way he believed there were currently no serious merger discussions. ''As far as I know, there's nothing going on,'' he said.
 Airline mergers are notoriously difficult to achieve. Merging worker seniority lists, antitrust concerns and differing corporate cultures all can work against a successful merger. 
 That Mr. Parker would want to start a second combination before he has come close to completing the first -- and that his competing chief executives would also entertain a merger -- shows how compelling such a combination can be. 
 Investors are much more interested in backing an airline merger than in putting money behind a stand-alone carrier exiting bankruptcy. In addition, airport hubs can be consolidated, corporate overhead can also be reduced through mergers, allowing carriers to be more profitable and less vulnerable to economic downturns.
 And while bankruptcy in some ways can make a merger easier to arrange, it also complicates negotiations because creditors and a bankruptcy judge in essence become party to the talks.
 ''It can be done, but it is not for the faint hearted,'' said Jonathan Rosenthal, a partner at Saybrook Capital, an investment bank in Santa Monica, Calif., that advised United creditors in that carrier's bankruptcy.
 The old US Airways only agreed to merge with America West, then run by Mr. Parker, after it had entered bankruptcy for the second time since Sept. 11, 2001, and was facing probable liquidation without a partner.
 Also, top executives looking for a big payday often do not want to sell their companies. United's chief executive, Glenn F. Tilton, avoided a merger despite 38 months in bankruptcy and emerged with a personal stake in the airline that, despite the company's weak earnings to date, could be worth $20 million or more.


GRAPHIC: Photo: W. Douglas Parker of US Airways called Delta about linking up. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); MERGERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%) 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (96%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (85%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US Airways Group; America West Airlines; Northwest Airlines; Delta Air Lines

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (96%); DAL (NYSE) (85%); LUV (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: WILLIAM DOUGLAS PARKER (89%) Jeff Bailey

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006



636 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Israel Suspends Airstrikes After Dozens Die in Village
Israel agreed to temporarily suspend air attacks in southern Lebanon after one of its raids, aimed at Hezbollah fighters in the village of Qana, Lebanon, killed dozens of civilians, many of them children, marking the bloodiest day of the conflict. Residents said as many as 60 people had been in an apartment building that collapsed during the strike. A1

The United Nations Security Council issued a statement expressing ''extreme shock and distress'' at the killing of Lebanese civilians in the bombing in Qana after negotiations in which the United States was initially successful in blocking a call from Secretary General Kofi Annan for an immediate halt to the fighting. 
A10

President Jacques Chirac of France has moved to lead the diplomatic campaign to end the crisis in Lebanon. Just hours after Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice canceled her trip to Lebanon, Mr. Chirac ordered his foreign minister, Philippe Douste-Blazy, to head there immediately. A12

Iraq Seeks Foreign Aid
Two high-ranking Iraqi government officials said their country was fighting international terrorists on its own soil on behalf of other countries and should be compensated with economic and military assistance. Their comments suggested an emerging strategy to portray Iraq as the global front line against terrorism and make a case for international aid. A6

Congo Election Proceeds
Millions of people streamed into Kinshasa, Congo, for polls in the first multiparty vote since shortly after independence. Sporadic violence continued up to the vote, but it went off without widespread complications, said officials of the United Nations, which organized and supervised the elections. A3

Sri Lanka Faces Off With Rebels
The Sri Lankan Army, in its first ground troop advance since a February 2002 cease-fire, tried to take control of an irrigation canal that the government says has been blocked by the Tamil Tigers guerrillas. A4

NATIONAL A13-15

Employers Held Liable For Hiring Illegal Workers
The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency has initiated a new nationwide strategy to clamp down on employers accused of hiring illegal immigrants. The campaign has sent payroll managers rushing to re-examine their workers' papers and rethink their workforce plans. A1

Asylum Rulings Questioned
An examination of thousands of immigration cases has found wide disparities in the rate at which judges grant asylum to people seeking haven in the United States, according to a study released by a private research group. A15

Charity Seeks to Market Drug
A small charity based in San Francisco is seeking approval from the Indian government for a drug to treat black fever, a disease that kills an estimated half-million people worldwide each year. If approval is granted as expected this fall, it will be the first time a charity has succeeded in ushering a drug to market. A1

Out of Work and Not Looking
Millions of American men between the ages of 30 and 55 have dropped out of regular work. Many of the men say they could find work if they had to, but at lower pay and fewer benefits than they once earned, and they have decided they prefer the alternative. A1

The Conservative Legacy
While the conservative movement has long sought to transmit its intellectual heritage to its young, that mission shows signs of new urgency amid fears of ideological drift. Everywhere young conservatives turn there are conferences, seminars and reading lists that promote figures from the movement's formative years. A13

English for a Special Mission
Voice of America, the government-sponsored news organization that has been on the air since 1942, broadcasts in 44 different languages -- and Special English. Special English was developed nearly 50 years ago as a radio experiment to spread news and cultural information to people outside the United States whose knowledge of English is limited. A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Courting Minority Voters As Primary Draws Near
With little more than a week left in the nation's most closely watched primary race, a wave of high-profile surrogates swept through Connecticut to campaign for Senator Joseph I. Lieberman and his antiwar challenger, Ned Lamont, as both turned their focus almost exclusively to winning minority votes. B1

Memos From Protest Suit
The Bloomberg administration denied accusations of being guided by politics in banning protests during the 2004 Republican National Convention, but documents from a federal lawsuit suggest that officials were motivated by political concerns over how the protests would play out while the Republican delegates were in town and how the events could affect the mayor's re-election campaign the following year. B1

Girl's Death Ruled Homicide
The death of a 2-year-old Bronx girl who suffered head injuries, apparently at the hands of her mother's boyfriend, was ruled a homicide. A woman who provided day care to the child said she had reported bruises, abrasions and other signs of abuse to the city more than six weeks ago. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

Drug Tests Shake Sports World
The fallout from Justin Gatlin's admission of a positive drug test has rattled the track and field world, prompting the sport's international federation to say it would pursue a lifetime ban for Gatlin should a doping offense be upheld and turning a newly harsh spotlight on shortcomings of the system. D3

OBITUARIES B7

Frank Carven
An advocate who campaigned for the rights of victims of air crashes after his sister and a 9-year-old nephew were killed on Trans World Airlines Flight 800 a decade ago, he was 54. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Wal-Mart Union in China
Workers at Wal-Mart Stores have formed their first trade union in China, after demands from the government that the company allow organized labor, according to reports in the official news media. C1

Camera With 3-D Effects
Contour, a futuristic camera system that will add photorealistic three-dimensional effects to digital entertainment, will be introduced at the Siggraph computer graphics conference in Boston. The effects created with the system could change the nature of cinematography, according to leading Hollywood producers. C1

Considering Airline Mergers
The early success of US Airways Group, a result of a merger, has led to some behind-the-scenes talks among investors and airline executives that could lead to more industry consolidation. C2

Newspapers Link to Rivals
The Washington Post, The New York Sun and The Daily Oklahoman, in Oklahoma City, have contracted with an online news aggregator, Inform.com, to scan news and blog sites and deliver content related to articles appearing on their Web sites, regardless of who published the articles. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Fooling the voters; prisoners and human rights; what's left of the Latin left; Adam Cohen on Weegee.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Bridge E6
Crossword E6
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings B9
Weather B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (87%); ELECTIONS (74%); LABOR FORCE (71%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (66%); FOREIGN LABOR (66%); IMMIGRATION LAW (61%); IRRIGATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); JACQUES CHIRAC (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); LEBANON (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006



637 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Political Memo; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: In Tackling Tax Problems, Corzine Is All Business 

BYLINE: By RICHARD G. JONES

DATELINE: TRENTON, July 28 

 BODY:
You could be forgiven for arriving late to Gov. Jon S. Corzine's speech before a joint session of the New Jersey Legislature on Friday and thinking that you had stumbled into a shareholders' meeting.
 More than in any other speech since his election last year, Mr. Corzine drew on his Wall Street experience as he opened a special summer session devoted to lowering property taxes.
Both in tone and in vocabulary -- Mr. Corzine, using a chief executive's lexicon, referred to the ''monetization'' of some state assets and ''free cash flow'' -- the governor seemed more confident than ever about the possibility of using solutions forged in the private sector to address problems with public fiscal policy. 
 To some State House veterans, Mr. Corzine -- first elected to public office only six years ago -- still seems more comfortable in the skin of a Wall Streeter than wearing the mantle of a State Street politician.
 ''The comment has been made that Corzine is more like a C.E.O. and less like a politician,'' said Philip Fang, a portfolio manager for Lord Abbett & Company. ''You can see that in pretty much all of the speech.''
 Part of that observation, which is not wholly unexpected, can probably be explained by simple human nature. Before turning to politics, Mr. Corzine worked at Goldman Sachs for nearly a quarter-century, working his way up to co-chairman, and his managerial compass could almost certainly be expected to point toward lessons learned there.
 But perhaps some of Mr. Corzine's comfort with business concepts can also be traced to a mistrust of the largely ineffective techniques that have been used by politicians in Trenton for years to deal with issues like high property taxes.
 Mr. Corzine succinctly referred to his disdain for those techniques near the start of his speech when he spoke of the importance of changing the way the state subsidizes municipalities and schools.
 ''Our business model for delivering and paying for government and school services is broken,'' he said, striking a decidedly corporate tone at the beginning of his 30-minute address on Friday. ''If we were a business, we'd be bankrupt.''
 From there, he described an ambitious program in which he proposed that the state use $250 million to create incentives for municipalities to consolidate services, study whether to sell or lease state assets like the New Jersey Turnpike and impose a 4 percent limit on year-to-year increases in property tax bills that are, on average, the highest in the nation.
 Those changes, especially the proposal to encourage more efficiency through consolidation, are the kind of practices generally favored by business leaders.
 ''I think the government adopting methods and methodologies that have been used by corporate America makes some good sense,'' said Assemblyman Gary S. Schaer, a Democrat of Bergen County.
 Mr. Schaer, who is an investment consultant and a vice president at Ryan Beck & Co., said that he heard distinct echoes of Mr. Corzine's business background in the address.
 ''I hear Wall Street throughout,'' he said. ''And I've got to tell you: I work on Wall Street, and I think it's refreshing. I think it's something we need to hear more of.'' 
 Others noted that Mr. Corzine painted a compelling portrait of how fixing property taxes could lead to improvements in other areas of the state's fiscal policy.
 ''There's a businesslike characteristic that is very thoughtful, understated and logical and rational in drawing a picture that everything is connected to everything,'' said former Gov. Jim Florio. ''And, if you sign on to the proposition that our budgetary problems are severe and they won't get easier, then you have to appreciate the fact the governor is correct that property tax is related to that.''
 Other observers were struck by the way Mr. Corzine incorporated many ideas that have been put forth by Republicans in Trenton like overhauling the pension system, changing the formula used to calculate school financing and scaling back benefits for state employees.
 ''I joked to myself that this is Jon Corzine going to China,'' said David P. Rebovich, managing director of the Institute for New Jersey Politics at Rider University. ''A guy who, at the federal level, has always been called a very liberal Democrat that here is really speaking the language of public administration and applying corporate management principles to the public sector to free up dollars.''
 Mr. Rebovich said Mr. Corzine also made it clear that like any business leader, he would hold lawmakers accountable should they not make what he feels is sufficient progress in fixing the tax problem.
 Mr. Corzine warned that if the Legislature did not move forward on substantial improvements to the tax system, he would ask that a measure calling for a constitutional convention be placed on a ballot in November 2007.
 Left unspoken, however, was the suggestion that if lawmakers failed to address the tax dilemma, the makeup of the Legislature would almost certainly undergo a drastic change in that same election.
 Mr. Rebovich said he was struck by a line in Mr. Corzine's speech that prefaced the constitutional convention scenario with the words, ''If we fail ''
 ''If we fail -- what does that say?'' Mr. Rebovich asked. ''It says: 'Guys, if we don't follow through on what I've laid out here today, that's going to be a failure. I'm going to regard it as that, I'm going to call it that and the public will call it that.' So he really has put the onus on the Legislature to get moving.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Jon S. Corzine opened a special summer session Friday to address New Jersey's property taxes. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); CASH FLOW (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Law and Legislation; Taxation

COMPANY: LORD ABBETT & CO (68%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (93%) Richard G Jones; Jon S (Gov) Corzine

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006



638 of 638 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Passing Down the Legacy of Conservatism 

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

DATELINE: SANTA BARBARA, Calif. 

 BODY:
Headed for what she called ''conservative boot camp,'' Christina Pajak grabbed the essentials: dress sandals, her Bible and ''The Politics of Prudence'' by Russell Kirk, the celebrated writer who a half-century ago gave the conservative movement its name.
 If she had not found Kirk, he would have found her. At a monthlong retreat for college conservatives here, he was both required reading and a source of after-hours debate among students excited to hear him called ''one of Ronald Reagan's favorite philosophers.''
Young people with old books is a common sight on the conservative circuit, and perhaps a growing one. While the movement has long sought to transmit its intellectual heritage to its young, that mission shows signs of new urgency amid fears of ideological drift.
 Everywhere young conservatives turn there are conferences, seminars and reading lists that promote figures from the movement's formative years. Along with Kirk, they include such canonical names from the 40's and 50's as Friedrich A. Hayek, Frank S. Meyer, Milton Friedman and William F. Buckley Jr. 
 Ms. Pajak, 18, who was home-schooled in Andover, Minn., will be a freshman this fall at Wheaton College, an evangelical school in Wheaton, Ill. While her conservatism springs from her upbringing, the literature ''helps me explain what I already believe,'' she said. ''I don't want to just say, 'Oh, it's because I was raised this way.' '' 
 Every political movement has its texts. But James W. Ceaser, a professor of politics at the University of Virginia, argues that the conservative focus on core thinkers has no exact parallel among liberals. 
 ''It doesn't mean they're not interested in ideas,'' Professor Ceaser said. ''It means their approach to politics doesn't rest on theory in the same way.''
 Liberalism's main tenets formed earlier, he said, in the Progressives' expansion of government, and are conveyed as assumptions rather than matters requiring theoretical debate.
 The retreat here is run by the Young America's Foundation, a nonprofit group based in Arlington, Va., that has long run weekend seminars. A $2.5 million gift allowed the group to begin this expanded effort, the Ronald Reagan Leadership Academy. With an inaugural class of 26, it combines classroom study with public speaking lessons and visits to Reagan's former ranch. 
 At a foundation event last year, Ms. Pajak met a fellow student who urged her to join him in reading ''The Politics of Prudence.'' Their long-distance romance now includes comparing notes about which of Kirk's 10 conservative principles they find most compelling. (Ms. Pajak is partial to No. 1: ''There exists an enduring moral order.'')
 Many conservatives say they have to promote their own thinkers because scholars and journalists ignore them. ''They don't study us; they're ignorant of who we are,'' said Floyd Brown, who runs the foundation's West Coast office. ''You can find college courses on all sorts of radical left-wing ideas, but you can't find a course on Russell Kirk.'' 
 Donald Devine, a lecturer here, said the task of teaching conservatism had changed with political success. When he began to lecture four decades ago, ''we had to make the term 'conservative' respectable,'' he said. ''Now 'conservatism' has become such a popular word it doesn't mean anything. The challenge is to decide what is truly conservative.''
 Two students here tried to do just that one night after dinner. Ana Lightle, a senior at the University of Baltimore, had just read Kirk's book ''The American Cause.'' He wrote it after the Korean War, in part to define, as he saw them, the principles the United States had defended. 
 ''Now we're fighting a war in Iraq, and people say it isn't our business,'' Ms. Lightle said. ''I have this core belief -- that the true state of man is free -- and the best way we have to be free so far is through democracy.''
 ''Kirk just nailed it on the head,'' she said.
 Matthew McCorkle had doubts. ''The way President Bush has phrased it -- 'If you support terror we'll take you out and install a democracy' -- may be biting off more than you can chew,'' he said.
 Mr. McCorkle, a junior at Hillsdale College in Michigan, countered with a different Kirk book, ''The Roots of American Order,'' which traces the roots of American civilization to ancient Jerusalem and Rome.
 ''My impression is that Iraq doesn't have those roots,'' Mr. McCorkle said. ''We're dealing with a sapling here.'' 
 Kirk, who died in 1994, wrote 32 books, the most famous being ''The Conservative Mind,'' which was published in 1953. It championed 150 years of conservative thought, and offered ''conservative'' as a unifying label for the right's disparate camps. 
 These days, a bookish conservative has many places to turn. The Foundation for Economic Education in Irvington-on-Hudson, N.Y, runs programs on free-market economics. The Heritage Foundation, a Washington group, offers courses for interns and Capitol Hill staff members. The Claremont Institute, in Claremont, Calif., emphasizes the founding principles of the United States. 
 The emphasis on philosophy, over policy mechanics, may reflect the movement's origins as an insurgency. ''A conservative who stays simply at the level of fighting policy battles may win some significant victories, but he's still playing the liberal game of tweaking big government,'' said Charles R. Kesler, who runs the Publius fellowship program for Claremont. ''These thinkers give you the chance to step back and think outside the liberal box.''
 Here, the students' conservatism varied. Jaimie Ucuzoglu wants to keep taxes low and abortion legal. Chris Meece calls abortion ''barbaric.'' Drawing on Kirk's notion of ''prudence,'' Ms. Pajak, an abortion opponent, would allow it in rare cases because ''if you tried to outlaw abortion right now, it'd still be there in the back alley.''
 One common trait is a reverence for Reagan, who left office when they were infants. Most focused less on his policies than his magnetism, what Lauren Wilson called his ''immense amount of character.''
 ''I love Ronald Reagan,'' said Ms. Wilson, who attends Samford University in Birmingham, Ala. ''One of the biggest things was his affection for Nancy; it's just obvious they were each other's world.''
 Some conversation strayed from the canon. Dormitory banter cheered on Ann Coulter, the best-selling provocateur. Arguing for private property, Mr. Devine, the lecturer, noted ''there are bums all over here'' downtown, and ''they sit on public property, not private property.'' He lamented the prosecution of Kenneth Lay, the late Enron executive convicted of fraud, by asking, ''Do you think it's possible for a rich person to get justice in the U.S. today?'' 
 One highlight was a trip to Rancho del Cielo -- ''the Western White House'' -- which the Reagans sold to the foundation in 1998 for $4.5 million. It consists of a surprisingly modest stucco home, set on 680 acres of horse trails and mountain brush.
 Lecturing from a tent beside the home, Mr. Devine, who was the head of government personnel in the Reagan administration, seemed moved as he remembered his old boss. He reminded the students that the president ''gained strength from Russell Kirk and Friedrich Hayek'' and urged them ''to be as good and decent and helpful as Ronald Reagan.''
 That reminded Ms. Pajak of another line from Kirk, his call for ''more elevation of spirit.'' Without that, she said, reading from her well-thumbed book, ''order, freedom, and justice fall into ruin.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 31 about a monthlong retreat for college conservatives run by the Young America's Foundation misidentified its headquarters and misstated the name of the retreat. The foundation is based in Herndon, Va., not Arlington, Va. The program is the Reagan Ranch Leadership Academy, not the Ronald Reagan Leadership Academy. A foundation official pointed out the errors to the reporter on Oct. 24; the correction was delayed by the reporter's oversight.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A highlight of a seminar run by the Young America's Foundation was a trip to Rancho del Cielo, Ronald Reagan's ''Western White House.'' (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)
Christina Pajak, 18, left, says her conservatism springs from her background, but she likes to defend it by using works by noted thinkers. (Photo by Kevin McKiernan for The New York Times)Chart: ''Summer Reading''Programs for young conservatives emphasis thinkers from the movement's formative years. Reading lists often include the following works:Friedrich A. HayekThe Road to Serfdom(1944)Likening socialism to slavery, Mr. Hayek, a future Nobel laureate, argued that centralized government and economic planning were inherent threats to liberty.William F. Buckley Jr.God and Man at Yale(1951)Mr. Buckley, then 25, said his alma mater sowed hostility to capitalism and Christianity
 a halfcentury of campus culture wars followed.Russell KirkThe Conservative Mind(1953)Challenging those who claimed liberalism as the country's lone tradition, Mr. Kirk portrayed a conservative heritage waiting to be rediscovered.Frank S. MeyerIn Defense of Freedom(1962)With libertarians and traditionalists at odds, Mr. Meyer sought to reconcile freedom and moral order. His ''fusionist'' theories helped shape a unified conservative movement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (95%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); RELIGION (78%); WRITERS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); CELEBRITIES (72%); HOME SCHOOLING (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%) 

ORGANIZATION: Young America's Foundation

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (91%) Jason Deparle; Ronald Wilson (1911-2004) Reagan

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Santa Barbara (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2006

 
