

201 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; COLOR TEST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: Where Whites Draw the Line

BYLINE: By MARCUS MABRY

 BODY:
How black is too black? 
 Millions of African-Americans celebrated Barack Obama's historic victory, seeing in it a reflection -- sudden and shocking -- of their own expanded horizons. But whether Mr. Obama captures the White House in November will depend on how he is seen by white Americans. Indeed, some people argue that one of the reasons Mr. Obama was able to defeat Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton was that a large number of white voters saw him as ''postracial.''
 In other words, Mr. Obama was black, but not too black.
 But where is the line? Does it change over time? And if it is definable, then how black can Mr. Obama be before he alienates white voters? Or, to pose the question more cynically, how black do the Republicans have to make him to win? 
 Social observers say a common hallmark of African-Americans who have achieved the greatest success, whether in business, entertainment or politics -- Oprah Winfrey, Magic Johnson and Mr. Obama -- is that they do not convey a sense of black grievance.
 Clearly, Mr. Obama understands this. Until his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, forced race into the political debate, Mr. Obama rarely dwelt on it. He gave his groundbreaking speech on race only in response to the Wright controversy. 
 Indeed, after he effectively won the Democratic nomination on Tuesday, he left it to the media to point out the racial accomplishment, and the relative he thanked most emotively was the woman who raised him: his white grandmother.
 There is a reason for this. Race is one of the most contentious issues in American society, and, as with many contentious issues, Americans like to choose the middle path between perceived extremes. ''In many ways, Obama is an ideal middle way person -- he is just as white as he is black,'' said Alan Wolfe, a political science professor at Boston College.
 John McWhorter, who is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, put it more bluntly: ''White people are weary of the kinds of black people who are dedicated to indicting whites as racists. So, to be 'too black' is to carry an air about you that whites have something to answer for.''
 That was the root of Mr. Obama's Jeremiah Wright problem. Mr. Wright spewed exactly the kind of angry racial repudiation that many whites associate with black leaders.
 Orlando Patterson, a professor of sociology at Harvard, argues that the one arena where black grievance is acceptable is in music, particularly in hip-hop, where an estimated 70 percent of listeners are white. But the generation exposed to hip-hop, mostly under 40, are part of what Mr. Patterson calls a growing ''ecumenical'' American culture that is unselfconsciously multiracial. 
 This Obama Generation came of age in the post-civil-rights age when color, though still relevant, had less impact on what one read, listened to or watched. It was the common crucible of popular culture, he said, that forged a truly American identity, rather than the ''salad bowl'' analogy cherished by diversity advocates.
 Mr. Obama's campaign so de-emphasized race that for most of the 17-month nomination contest much of the news media became obsessed with the question of whether he was ''black enough'' to win black votes. 
 Most African-American Democrats were for Hillary Clinton early on, until voters in Iowa proved to them that whites would support a black candidate.
 Congressman Jesse Jackson Jr. said that Mr. Obama, unlike the immediate successors of Martin Luther King Jr., understood the importance of language and the need to frame social debate in a way less likely to alienate whites. 
 ''In the absence of Martin Luther King,'' he said, ''I think the void was filled by Stokely Carmichael, James Bevel and Jesse Jackson,'' who did not use language as well. ''With all respect to my father, 40 years later, this is the first time we have gotten back to a very thoughtful and careful approach to language.''
 But a crucial difference between Dr. King and Mr. Obama, said the King biographer Taylor Branch, was that Dr. King sought to point out hypocrisy and shame white people into changing the system.
 It was not simply framing and language choice that has helped Mr. Obama reach white people. He is genuinely of a different place and time than the generation of black leaders forged in the civil rights struggle. His story is, in part, an immigrant's story, devoid of the particular wounds that descendants of American slaves carry. 
 His father was a black Kenyan and his mother a white American. His mixed-race heritage is less discomfiting to whites, Mr. McWhorter said, than the more common source of black Americans' mixed-race blood: the miscegenation of slavery. 
 Mr. Obama's generation of black political leaders have benefited from the gains of the civil rights movement, and are now attempting to broaden them. They include Cory Booker, the mayor of Newark; Adrian Fenty, the mayor of Washington; Deval Patrick, the governor of Massachusetts; and former Representative Harold Ford Jr. from Tennessee. They attended top schools, often in the Ivy League and often law school as well, and began their public-service careers in community organizing rather than in national civil rights organizations. 
 So far, only Mr. Obama and Mr. Patrick have won offices that required large numbers of white voters to support them.
 Mr. Ford made a run for the United States Senate, but fell short -- thanks, in part, to suggestive ads by his opponent that featured a white actress. 
 The smaller and older generation of black Republicans who could aspire to high office seem to generate less white suspicion. The approval ratings of Colin Powell and Condoleezza Rice -- each the most popular members of George W. Bush's cabinet during their respective tenures -- suggest they would be among the most popular black candidates with non-black voters.
 Patrick J. Buchanan, conservative commentator and former aspirant to the Republican presidential nomination, said it was Mr. Powell's military credentials that made him appealing to whites. 
 ''Barack Obama's got problems -- in central Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Kentucky -- that Colin Powell wouldn't have,'' Mr. Buchanan said. ''Colin Powell did his duty in Vietnam, he's a soldier, a general.''
 (Mr. Obama was too young for Vietnam.) 
 For decades, pollsters have found that one of the prejudices white Americans commonly hold about African-Americans is a belief that blacks are less patriotic, despite serving in the armed forces in greater proportion than their share of the population.
 Ms. Rice, who grew up in segregated Birmingham, sounded as if she were refuting that very prejudice when she was asked for her reaction to Mr. Obama's race speech.
 ''What I would like understood as a black American is that black Americans loved and had faith in this country even when this country didn't love and have faith in them, and that's our legacy,'' she told The Washington Times editorial board. 
 A rising generation of black leaders has opened up new possibilities. But so have the increasing levels of white tolerance. What is impossible to know, today, is how far that tolerance will extend. 
 For instance, Mr. Patterson said research consistently showed that roughly one in five whites continues to hold racist views. Indeed, a poll by the Pew Research Center in March found that 20 percent of white Democrats over the age of 44 found interracial dating unacceptable; only 3 percent of white Democrats under 44 felt that way.
 Mr. Buchanan said Mr. Obama's monolithic support among blacks was likely to stoke such white animosity.
 ''There's a sense among some folks that if African-Americans are voting 90 percent for 'one of us;' then you're going to vote for 'one of us,' '' he said. When Norm Kagan, a white 62-year-old supporter of Mrs. Clinton's, was asked in St. Paul, Minn., if white voters in the state would support a black man, he immediately raised the specter of crime, as if the mere mention of blacks brought it to mind. ''We've all had our problems,'' he said. ''Every now and then someone gets mugged or robbed. The most economically challenged -- which are mostly black -- are most often the criminals and not to be trusted.'' 
 Some Republicans have used such associations to defeat Democrats. But political analysts point to signs that the culture-war tactics are losing steam. They note the Republican loss in 2006 of both houses of Congress, and the recent Democratic victories in traditionally Republican districts in special Congressional elections in Mississippi and Louisiana.
 Rick Perlstein, author of ''Nixonland,'' about the G.O.P.'s political strategy since the 1960's, said many of the issues like crime that allowed Republicans to divide and conquer no longer exist. 
 One of the biggest issues this year is the economic downturn. Shared distress may trump racial divisions, he said. 
 Democrats shouldn't think that things will always be the way they have been, said Mr. Perlstein, a liberal. ''Change does happen,'' he said. ''And it happens overnight.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 15, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the attitudes of white people toward black leaders misidentified the source of suggestive ads attacking Harold Ford Jr. of Tennessee in his run for the United States Senate in 2006. They were produced by the Republican National Committee -- not his opponent, Bob Corker.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BEGINNINGS: Barack Obama with his mother, Ann Dunham. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OBAMA PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.WK8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY THE HEADS OF STATE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); RELIGION (66%); HIP HOP CULTURE (62%); RAP MUSIC (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); OPRAH WINFREY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



202 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2138 words

HEADLINE: Countrywide's Buyer Isn't Blinking

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IN the six months since Bank of America announced its plans to take over Countrywide Financial, many investors have doubted that the $4 billion deal for the hobbled mortgage lender would get done. Bank of America has been strangely silent about its plans for merging the two operations, with the exception of a cryptic regulatory filing last month warning that investors should not count on it assuming all of Countrywide's debt.
 But in a conference call on Monday with investors, Kenneth D. Lewis, the chief executive of Bank of America, confirmed his commitment to the Countrywide buyout, which is expected to close by the end of September. When asked about the fact that home prices have plummeted and loan defaults have soared since the deal was announced, Mr. Lewis defended it as ''compelling,'' with a ''pretty nice'' upside. ''We don't have our heads in the sand,'' he said. 
 Investing in distressed assets, of course, can be extremely profitable. But Mr. Lewis's shareholders have a right to be nervous about the deal, analysts say. As the nation's largest home lender, Countrywide stands at the center of the mortgage storm and is being buffeted not only by woeful financial results but also by intense scrutiny from state and federal regulators. Bankruptcy judges have become vocal about what they consider dubious tactics taken by Countrywide against troubled borrowers. 
 ''It's a lot to ask Bank of America shareholders to stomach,'' said Mike Larson, a real estate analyst at Weiss Research in Jupiter, Fla. 
 Countrywide is not only one of the biggest lenders in California and Florida, states that have been hit hard by the housing crisis, he said, it also has a large portfolio of home equity lines of credit and an especially risky type of adjustable-rate mortgage known as the option ARM. ''It shows that the company is vulnerable to many geographies and loan types that are showing the worst performance,'' Mr. Larson said. ''It raises a real question about the logic of the deal or the deal at current terms.'' 
 Those terms, struck on Jan. 11, call for an exchange of Countrywide stock for Bank of America shares worth $5.56 each at current prices. Indicating the skepticism about the transaction, Countrywide's shares trade at a 13 percent discount to that price.
 David Dreman, chairman of Dreman Value Management, which oversees $15 billion in assets, is a Bank of America shareholder who said he has never been happy with the Countrywide deal. ''We like Bank of America but I wonder if they went for the franchise much too soon,'' he said. ''It's a deal that we hope won't bite them too badly over time.''
 On Thursday, the Federal Reserve signed off on the transaction. Yet Countrywide's ugly financial results of late show no sign of abating. In the last three quarters, it has lost $2.5 billion, according to financial filings. In the first quarter of 2008, total nonperforming assets hit $6 billion, almost five times that of the same period last year. 
 ''We understood that there was a black hole from here to there and that Countrywide was going to go through some financial difficulties,'' said Robert Stickler, a Bank of America spokesman. ''The question was, how big is the hole. We did more due diligence than we have ever done on a deal and we concluded that the hole was manageable.''
 Countrywide declined to comment for this article.
 The credit risk in its loan portfolio is immense, analysts say. At the end of the first quarter, Countrywide had $95 billion in loans held for investments on its books, many of them adjustable-rate mortgages written on properties in California, where prices are still falling. Some $34 billion of the loans held for investment are home equity lines of credit and second liens, riskier because they are more likely to generate losses when home values fall. 
 Countrywide also has $15.6 billion in mortgages and related securities that it hopes to sell. Of these, $10.4 billion are so-called Level 2, and hard to value because the market for them is inactive. An additional $5.1 billion are valued on internal company models, not market prices.
 Because of the credit risk in Countrywide's books, Paul J. Miller, managing director at Friedman, Billings, Ramsey, a securities firm, estimates that the deal will cost Bank of America an additional $10 billion to $15 billion above the $4 billion purchase price when a final accounting of losses is made. 
 ''This is a horrible deal,'' Mr. Miller said. ''Ken Lewis wants to be No. 1 in this business and Countrywide gives him the capacity to be a very dominant player. But Bank of America has all the pieces in place already. They don't need this.''
 COUNTRYWIDE'S role in the United States housing market is hard to overestimate. In addition to being the No. 1 lender, it is the largest loan servicer in the nation, administering $1.5 trillion in loans made by other institutions as well as itself. The servicing and processing businesses provided years of enviable profitability, but now they, too, are vulnerable to earnings pressure, especially as delinquencies surge and regulators heighten their scrutiny of the company's practices.
 Even so, with the downturn in the housing market curbing demand for new mortgages, Countrywide's servicing operation is its most alluring asset. In the first quarter it generated $1.4 billion in revenue from that business.
 Before the days of record-setting defaults, mortgage servicing was a low-cost enterprise, generating around 0.3 percent of the dollar amount of the loans administered each year. The value of these operations rose and fell based on interest rates. If rates fell, mortgage prepayments would increase and the value of the servicing portfolio would decline. Conversely, if rates rose, prepayments would slow and the servicing unit's value would rise.
 But because the servicing business is built for payment processing, defaults significantly increase its costs. For example, companies administering mortgages must advance monthly payments to the owners of the loan even if borrowers stop paying. While each loan is different, these advances are typically made for at least three months. 
 As a result, Countrywide's servicing portfolio is not worth what it once was, said Thomas A. Lawler, founder of Lawler Economic and Housing Consulting. ''All of a sudden you've got to factor in a lot of variables that you didn't have to before,'' he said. 
 Foreclosures also take longer to complete. The big increase in foreclosures -- some 243,000 homes were in some stage of the process in April, according to RealtyTrac, up 65 percent from April 2007 -- has gummed up the system. Foreclosures are likely to keep rising; the delinquency rate grew to 6.35 percent in the first quarter, the highest since 1979, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.
 Bankruptcy courts overseeing some foreclosures are increasingly wary of evicting borrowers. Judges have brought numerous foreclosures to a standstill because the institutions claiming to own the notes underlying the properties have not provided proof that they in fact are the proper holders. 
 Countrywide's servicing unit lost $817 million before taxes in the first quarter, versus a $100 million loss in the same period of 2007. Even as Countrywide's loan servicing portfolio rose 10 percent in the first quarter, operating earnings in the business fell to $463 million from $640 million in the same period of 2007. 
 In the first quarter this year, Countrywide marked down the value of its servicing arm by $1.5 billion, reflecting declining interest rates. Still, the lender valued the so-called servicing rights at an eye-popping $17 billion. It did, however, allow that the servicing rights were hard to value.
 But if the servicing unit is worth $17 billion, Bank of America's offer of $4 billion for the entire company values the rest of it at negative $13 billion.
 A more appropriate value for the servicing business, according to Mr. Miller at Friedman, Billings, Ramsey, is perhaps $3.5 billion. ''Servicing is interesting, but it has always been a disappointment in acquisitions,'' he said. 
 Mr. Stickler of Bank of America defended the deal. ''They still have incredible technology and an incredible origination platform and servicing platform that made them the leading mortgage company,'' he said. ''When the housing situation stabilizes, we would be left with the leading position in mortgage.''
 The problems facing Countrywide's servicing unit go beyond a weak housing market and the credit crisis. In a number of court cases, judges are halting Countrywide foreclosures because they were based on servicing errors or improprieties. 
 Two years after foreclosing on the Iron City, Tenn., home of Connie and David Prince, Countrywide said in court documents that it had ''inadvertently'' failed to credit the Princes with payments they had made. This forced them into foreclosure. 
 Two months ago, Countrywide agreed to reverse the foreclosure sale and reinstate the Princes' mortgage ''at the correct amount after accounting for any and all accounting errors.'' 
 Peter T. Skeie, a lawyer in Nashville who represents the Princes, said they never should have been in foreclosure. ''It was a Countrywide error and Countrywide has graciously offered to forgive itself of its error'' and then return the Princes to where they were before. 
 Mr. Prince, 50, is a factory worker with a degenerative back condition. Their house sits on property that has been in his family since he was 9, his wife said. ''Our lives have been destroyed by this and it wasn't our mistake,'' Ms. Prince said. ''We didn't know which way to turn. We tried to talk to them but we're not smart enough. They knew how to belittle us.'' 
 COUNTRYWIDE'S reputation as an efficient mortgage servicer has been tarnished repeatedly in recent months. Last March, the company came under blistering criticism from Jeff Bohm, a federal judge in Houston, who told it to ''mend'' its ''broken practices.'' And the United States Trustee, a Justice Department unit that oversees the integrity of bankruptcy courts, has sued Countrywide, contending that its tactics represent an abuse of the bankruptcy system.
 ''If servicing is the crown jewel and there are aspersions being cast upon it by these relatively neutral judges and bankruptcy trustees, then it may be a serious-enough problem,'' said Carl Tobias, professor of law at the University of Richmond in Virginia. ''I think there ought to be concern on Bank of America's part as to reputation and what these bankruptcy trustees and judges are saying.''
 As regulation of the mortgage industry increases, Countrywide's soup-to-nuts offerings of other loan-related businesses -- insurance, appraisals, document preparation work -- may become something of a liability. 
 For instance, its LandSafe unit, which conducts appraisals, flood certifications and other lucrative loan processing services for borrowers, may be prohibited from providing some services on the company's loans. Earlier this year, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored enterprises that buy mortgages from originators like Countrywide, said they would prohibit companies from using in-house appraisals on initial loans. 
 In 2007, LandSafe generated $700 million in revenue, almost 12 percent of the entire company's $6 billion in revenue. In a regulatory filing, Countrywide said that about 44 percent of LandSafe's revenue was generated by property appraisals made in support of loans Countrywide originated. Countrywide said it wasn't sure how it would deal with the new policies, but said the effect on its results would not be significant. 
 The final wild card in the Countrywide deck relates to shareholder lawsuits against it and continuing investigations into its practices. The Securities and Exchange Commission is examining its accounting and insider stock transactions. The Federal Trade Commission is investigating Countrywide as part of a broad inquiry into practices of lenders and loan servicers. The F.B.I. is looking at possible loan fraud, and regulators in Illinois and California are also investigating the company; of interest to the two states is whether it discriminated against minority borrowers. 
 Walter O'Haire, senior analyst at Celent, a research and consulting firm, said, ''If I were Bank of America, I would be in close discussions with the regulators and the U.S. Trustee and send two messages: We want to do this deal but we can only do it if it's good for B. of A. shareholders. And don't paint us with the Countrywide brush because we are not Countrywide.''
 Mr. Lewis of Bank of America may have the same idea. At last week's conference call, he said the Countrywide name would be dropped after the merger. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Demonstrators outside a public hearing in April in Los Angeles responded to the Countrywide buyout proposal.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HECTOR MATA/REUTERS)
A hearing in April in Los Angeles studied Bank of America's plans for Countrywide Financial.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HECTOR MATA/REUTERS)
 Kenneth D. Lewis, Bank of America's chief executive.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAT CROWE II/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); JUDGES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); DREMAN VALUE MANAGEMENT LP (51%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



203 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: One Historic Night, Two Americas

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
WHEN Barack Obama achieved his historic victory on Tuesday night, the battle was joined between two Americas. Not John Edwards's two Americas, divided between rich and poor. Not the Americas split by race, gender, party or ideology. What looms instead is an epic showdown between two wildly different visions of the country, from the ground up. 
 On one side stands Mr. Obama's resolutely cheerful embrace of the future. His vision is inseparable from his identity, both as a rookie with a slim Washington resume and as a black American whose triumph was regarded as improbable by voters of all races only months ago. On the other is John McCain's promise of a wise warrior's vigilant conservation of the past. His vision, too, is inseparable from his identity -- as a government lifer who has spent his entire career in service, whether in the Navy or Washington. 
 Given the dividing line separating the two Americas of 2008, a ticket uniting Mr. McCain and Hillary Clinton might actually be a better fit than the Obama-Clinton ''dream ticket,'' despite their differences on the issues. Never was this more evident than Tuesday night, when Mrs. Clinton and Mr. McCain both completely misread a one-of-a-kind historical moment as they tried to cling to the prerogatives of the 20th century's old guard.
 All presidential candidates, Mr. Obama certainly included, are egomaniacs. But Washington's faith in hierarchical status adds a thick layer of pomposity to politicians who linger there too long. Mrs. Clinton referred to herself by the first-person pronoun 64 times in her speech, and Mr. McCain did so 60 times in his. Mr. Obama settled for 30.
 Remarkably, neither Mrs. Clinton nor Mr. McCain had the grace to offer a salute to Mr. Obama's epochal political breakthrough, which reverberated so powerfully across the country and throughout the world. By being so small and ungenerous, they made him look taller. Their inability to pivot even briefly from partisan self-interest could not be a more telling symptom of the dysfunctional Washington culture Mr. Obama aspires to mend. 
 Yet even as the two establishment candidates huffed and puffed to assert their authority, they seemed terrified by Mr. Obama's insurgency, as if it were the plague in Edgar Allan Poe's ''Masque of the Red Death.'' Mrs. Clinton held her nonconcession speech in a Manhattan bunker, banishing cellphone reception and television monitors carrying the news of Mr. Obama's clinching of the nomination. Mr. McCain, laboring under the misapprehension that he was wittily skewering his opponent, compulsively invoked the Obama-patented mantra of ''change'' 33 times in his speech. 
 Mr. McCain only reminded voters that he, like Mrs. Clinton, thinks that change is nothing more than a marketing gimmick. He has no idea what it means. ''No matter who wins this election, the direction of this country is going to change dramatically,'' he said on Tuesday. He then grimly regurgitated Goldwater and Reagan government-bashing talking points from the 1960s and '70s even as he presumed to accuse Mr. Obama of looking ''to the 1960s and '70s for answers.'' 
 Mr. Obama is a liberal, but it's not your boomer parents' liberalism that is at the heart of his appeal. He never rattles off a Clinton laundry list of big federal programs; he supports abortion rights and gay civil rights with a sunny bonhomie that makes the right's cultural scolds look like rabid mastodons. He is not refighting either side of the domestic civil war over Vietnam that exploded in his hometown of Chicago 40 years ago this summer, long before he arrived there.
 He has never deviated from his much-quoted formulation in ''The Audacity of Hope,'' where he described himself as aloof from ''the psychodrama of the baby boom generation'' with its ''old grudges and revenge plots hatched on a handful of college campuses long ago.'' His vocabulary is so different from that of Mrs. Clinton and Mr. McCain that they often find it as baffling as a foreign language, even as they try to rip it off.
 The selling point of Mr. Obama's vision of change is not doctrinaire liberalism or Bush-bashing but an inclusiveness that he believes can start to relieve Washington's gridlock much as it animated his campaign. Some of that inclusiveness is racial, ethnic and generational, in the casual, what's-the-big-deal manner of post-boomer Americans already swimming in our country's rapidly expanding demographic pool. Some of it is post-partisan: he acknowledges that Republicans, Ronald Reagan included, can have ideas.
 Opponents who dismiss this as wussy naivete do so at their own risk. They at once call attention to the expiring shelf life of their own Clinton-Bush-vintage panaceas and lull themselves into underestimating Mr. Obama's political killer instincts. 
 The Obama forces out-organized the most ruthless machine in Democratic politics because the medium of their campaign mirrored its inclusive message. They empowered adherents in every state rather than depending on a Beltway campaign hierarchy whose mercenary chief strategist kept his day job as chief executive for a corporate P.R. giant. Such viral organization and fund-raising is a seamless fit with bottom-up democracy as it is increasingly practiced in the Facebook-YouTube era, not merely by Americans and not merely by the young. 
 You could learn a ton about the Clinton campaign's cultural tone-deafness from its stodgy generic Web site. A similar torpor afflicts JohnMcCain.com, which last week gave its graphics a face-lift that unabashedly mimicsBarackObama.com and devoted prime home page real estate to hawking ''McCain Golf Gear.'' (No joke.) The blogs, video and social networking are static and sparse, the apt reflection of a candidate who repeatedly invokes ''I'' as he boasts of his humility.
 Mr. Obama's deep-rooted worldliness -- in philosophy as well as itinerant background -- is his other crucial departure from the McCain template. As more and more Americans feel the pain of spiraling gas prices and lost jobs, they are also coming to recognize, as Mr. Obama does, that the globally reviled American image forged by an endless war in Iraq and its accompanying torture scandals is inflicting economic as well as foreign-policy havoc. 
 Six out of 10 Americans do want their president to talk to Iran's president, according to the most-recent Gallup poll. Americans are sick of a national identity defined by arrogant saber-rattling abroad and manipulative fear-mongering at home. Mr. Obama closed his speech on Tuesday by telling Americans they ''don't deserve'' another election ''that's governed by fear.'' Of the three candidates, he was the only one who did not mention 9/11 that night. 
 Mr. Obama isn't flawless. But it's hard to see him hitching up with Mrs. Clinton, who would contradict his message, unite the right, and pass along her husband's still unpacked post-presidency baggage. A larger trap for Mr. Obama is his cockiness. His own tendency to preen and to coast could be encouraged by recent events rocking the Straight Talk Express: Mr. McCain is so far proving an exceptionally clumsy candidate prone to accentuating everything that's out-of-touch about his American vision.
 Mr. McCain's speech in a New Orleans suburb on Tuesday night spawned a cottage industryof ridicule, even among Republicans. The halting delivery, sickly green backdrop and spastic, inappropriate smiles, presumably mandated by some consultant hoping to mask his anger, left the impression that Mr. McCain isn't yet ready for prime-time radio. 
 But the substance was even worse than the theatrics. Incredibly, Mr. McCain attacked Mr. Obama for being insufficiently bipartisan while speaking to the most conspicuously partisan audience you can assemble in today's America: a small, nearly all-white crowd that seconded his attack lines with boorish choruses of boos. On TV, the audience came across as a country-club membership riled by a change in the Sunday brunch menu.
 Equally curious was Mr. McCain's decision to stage this event in Louisiana, a state that is truly safe for the G.O.P. and that he'd last visited less than six weeks earlier. Perhaps he did so because Louisiana's governor, the 36-year-old Indian-American Bobby Jindal, is the only highly placed nonwhite Republican he could find to lend his campaign an ersatz dash of diversity and youth. 
 Or perhaps he thought that if he once more returned to the scene of President Bush's Katrina crime to (belatedly) slam that federal failure, it would fool voters into forgetting his cheerleading for Mr. Bush's Iraq obsession and economic policies. This time it proved a levee too far. The day after his speech Mr. McCain was caught on the stump misstating and exaggerating his own do-little record after Katrina. Soon the Internet was alight with documentation of what he actually did on the day the hurricane hit land: a let-us-eat-cake photo op with Mr. Bush celebrating his birthday in Arizona. 
 Anything can happen in politics, and there are five months to go. But Tuesday night's McCain pratfall -- three weeks in the planning by his campaign, according to Fox News -- should be a clear indication that Mr. Obama must accept Mr. McCain's invitation to weekly debates at once. Tomorrow if possible, and, yes, bring on the green! 
 Mr. Obama must also heed Mr. McCain's directive that he visit Iraq -- as long as he avoids Baghdad markets and hits other foreign capitals on route. When the world gets a firsthand look at the new America Mr. Obama offers as an alternative to Mr. McCain's truculent stay-the-course, the public pandemonium may make J.F.K.'s ''Ich bin ein Berliner'' visit to the Berlin Wall look like a warm-up act.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN EDWARDS (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



204 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1733 words

HEADLINE: Obama Is Mapping A Nationwide Push In G.O.P. Strongholds

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JEFF ZELENY; Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama's general election plan calls for broadening the electoral map by challenging Senator John McCain in typically Republican states -- from North Carolina to Missouri to Montana -- as Mr. Obama seeks to take advantage of voter turnout operations built in nearly 50 states in the long Democratic nomination battle, aides said.
 On Monday, Mr. Obama will travel to North Carolina -- a state that has not voted for a Democratic presidential candidate in 32 years -- to start a two-week tour of speeches, town hall forums and other appearances intended to highlight differences with Mr. McCain on the economy. From there, he heads to Missouri, which last voted for a Democrat in 1996. His first campaign swing after securing the Democratic presidential nomination last week was to Virginia, which last voted Democratic in 1964.
 With Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton now having formally bowed out of the race and thrown her backing to him, Mr. Obama wants to define the faltering economy as the paramount issue facing the country, a task probably made easier by ever-rising gasoline prices and the sharp rise in unemployment the government reported on Friday. Mr. McCain, by contrast, has been emphasizing national security more than any other issue and has made clear that he would like to fight the election primarily on that ground. 
 Mr. Obama has moved in recent days to transform his primary organization into a general election machine, hiring staff members, sending organizers into important states and preparing a television advertisement campaign to present his views and his biography to millions of Americans who followed the primaries from a distance.
 In one telling example, he is moving to hire Aaron Pickrell, the chief political strategist of Gov. Ted Strickland of Ohio -- who helped steer Mrs. Clinton to victory in that state's primary -- to run his effort against Mr. McCain there. In another, aides said, he has tapped Dan Carroll, an opposition researcher who gained fame digging up information on opponents' records for Bill Clinton in 1992, to help gather information about Mr. McCain. That is the latest evidence that, for all the talk on both sides about a new kind of politics, the general election campaign is likely to be bloody.
 Mr. Obama's campaign is considering hiring Patti Solis Doyle, a longtime associate of Mrs. Clinton who was her campaign manager until a shake-up in February, the first of what Mr. Obama's aides said would be a number of hires from the Clinton campaign.
 Recognizing the extent to which Republicans view Michelle Obama's strong views and personality as a potential liability for her husband, Mr. Obama's aides said they were preparing to bring aboard senior operatives from previous Democratic presidential campaigns to work with her, a clear departure from the typical way the spouse of a candidate is staffed. Mrs. Obama's operation would include senior aides devoted to responding to attacks and challenges to her, particularly if she continues to campaign as much as she has so far.
 To counter persistent rumors and mischaracterizations about his background, Mr. Obama's advisers said they would also begin using television advertising and speeches in a biographical campaign to present his story on his terms. But they suggested that their research had found that voters were not that well acquainted with Mr. McCain, either, signaling that the next few months will see a scramble by the two campaigns to define the rival candidate.
 ''Even though Senator McCain has been on the scene for three decades, there are a lot of people who don't know a lot about him -- and there are a lot of people who don't know about us,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior strategist. ''Both campaigns are about to begin filling in the gaps.''
 Mr. Obama has sought in recent weeks to deal pre-emptively with issues that shadowed him in the primary and on which Mr. McCain has already challenged him. At a speech to Jewish leaders in Washington, he markedly toughened his statements about how he would deal with Iran after coming under attack for his pledge to meet with its leader; he now almost always wears an American flag pin on his lapel after Republicans sought to raise questions about his patriotism by pointing to the absence of one.
 While the lengthy, contentious Democratic primary fight against Mrs. Clinton exposed vulnerabilities in Mr. Obama that the Republicans will no doubt seek to exploit, it also allowed him to build a nearly nationwide network of volunteers and professional organizers. While early assertions by presidential campaigns that they intend to expand the playing field are often little more than feints intended to force opponents to spend time and money defending states that they should have locked up, Mr. Obama's fund-raising success gives his campaign more flexibility than most to play in more places.
 Mr. Obama's aides said some states where they intend to campaign -- like Georgia, Missouri, Montana and North Carolina -- might ultimately be too red to turn blue. But the result of making an effort there could force Mr. McCain to spend money or send him to campaign in what should be safe ground, rather than using those resources in states like Ohio.
 Mr. Obama's campaign manager, David Plouffe, said that the primary contest had left the campaign with strong get-out-the-vote operations in Republican states that were small enough that better-than-usual turnout could make a difference in the general election. Among those he pointed to was Alaska, which last voted for a Democrat in 1964.
 ''Do we have to win any of those to get to 270?'' Mr. Plouffe said, referring to the number of electoral votes needed to win the election. ''No. Do we have reason to think we can be competitive there? Yes. Do we have organizations in those states to be competitive? Yes. This is where the primary was really helpful to us now.''
 Mr. Plouffe also pointed to Oregon and Washington, states that have traditionally been competitive and where Mr. Obama defeated Mrs. Clinton, as places the campaign could have significant advantages .
 Still, the Republican Party has a history of out-hustling and out-organizing the Democratic Party in national elections. The question is whether the more organically grown game plans that carried Mr. Obama to victory in Democratic primaries and caucuses can match the well-oiled organizations Republicans have put together.
 Mr. McCain's advisers dismissed the Obama campaign claims as bluster. ''We're confident about our ability to win those states,'' said Steve Schmidt, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain.
 And Mr. Obama is not alone in trying to fight on what is historically unfriendly territory. A central part of Mr. McCain's strategy is an effort to pick up Democratic voters unhappy with the outcome of the primary, and to compete for states that have recently voted Democratic, like Pennsylvania, where Mr. Obama was soundly beaten by Mrs. Clinton, and Michigan, where Mr. Obama did not compete in the primary.
 Mr. Obama's aides would not say when he would begin his television advertising campaign, saying that disclosure would help their opponent. 
 A Republican strategist said that, according to party monitoring services, Mr. Obama's campaign had inquired about advertising rates in 25 states, including traditionally Republican states like Georgia, Mississippi and North Carolina. That would constitute a very large purchase. President Bush, whose 2004 campaign had the most expensive advertising drive in presidential history, usually ran commercials in a maximum of 17 states.
 The strategist said that the Republican intelligence was that Mr. Obama's campaign was indicating to television stations that it was considering beginning its commercials in mid-June, or possibly after July 4. But Mr. McCain started an advertising campaign on Friday that surprised Democrats with its size and expense -- more than $3 million -- and it was unclear if that would prompt Mr. Obama's strategists to change their timetable. 
 Media strategists in both parties said that Mr. Obama's campaign would have enough money to run a break-all-records advertising campaign. In theory, at least, he will have enough money to run one set of prime-time national advertisements on broadcast television, and a concurrent and harder-hitting campaign against Mr. McCain in closely contested states.
 A national campaign on broadcast television -- which has traditionally been prohibitively expensive for presidential campaigns -- could make sense in this case, particularly if the Obama campaign looks to expand the playing field as significantly as Mr. Plouffe suggested it would.
 Mr. Obama and a team of senior advisers spent Friday morning in Chicago planning the next few weeks. In addition to presenting his economic policies, Mr. Obama is also exploring a foreign trip and a biographical tour before the party's convention in August.
 Mr. Obama's a 17-day economic tour, starting Monday, comes as polls suggest acute public anxiety about the economy, fueled by a new wave of bad news, including a surge in the unemployment rate and a record rise in the cost of oil.
 The economic push is intended to highlight the distinctions between Democratic and Republican proposals on health care, jobs, energy prices, education and taxes. Mr. Obama is expected to deliver a series of policy speeches and visit voters in small towns and rural areas.
 While Mr. Obama's economic tour will take him through several states where he registered strong performances in the primary season, including Iowa and Wisconsin, he will also visit other general election battleground states where he lost primaries by substantial margins, including Ohio.
 At Mr. Obama's campaign headquarters in Chicago, where for two months separate teams had focused on Mrs. Clinton and Mr. McCain, aides are adjusting their duties. One area in particular where Mr. Obama is adding muscle is a team that is tasked with tracking down rumors and erroneous statements circulated on the Internet.
 ''The growth of the Internet, which has been a fabulous asset for helping to build the Obama community, is also a place where erroneous e-mails live,'' said Anita Dunn, a senior campaign adviser. ''That's a challenge I don't think previous campaigns have had to deal with to the extent that the Obama campaign has.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama, with Representative Rahm Emanuel, made an unscheduled stop Friday at a Chicago 2016 Olympics rally.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES REX ARBOGAST/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); CELEBRITIES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (52%); GASOLINE PRICES (52%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); MICHELLE OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TED STRICKLAND (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



205 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: What Went Wrong The Problem Wasn't the Message -- It Was the Money

BYLINE: By MARK PENN

 BODY:
Perhaps the most frustrating part of losing a close race is thinking about what else you could have done to win. You replay the campaign over and over again in your head. As an adviser to Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign, I sure do. 
 But the endless armchair chatter often obscures what actually needed to be done. 
 The conventional criticisms of Mrs. Clinton's campaign are these: she had no message; she ran just on experience; she should have shown more of her warmer side; she was too negative; President Clinton's campaigning hurt her; and she presented herself as inevitable. It is amazing she got any votes at all.
 So let's take on a few of the myths. Even schoolchildren got the message that Mrs. Clinton was ready to be president on Day One. As a result of her campaigning and ads, people saw her as a strong commander in chief, a good steward of the economy and a champion for people who needed one. 
 As the primaries came to an end, she had built a coalition of working-class voters, women, older voters and Latinos, and it held together -- and even strengthened -- as Barack Obama gained enough superdelegates to put him over the top. Nearly 18 million people responded to her message with their votes. But she went from a lead of 120 superdelegates in early February to a deficit of 40 before last Tuesday.
 Experience was a major part of the campaign message, but far from the only one. She talked about the strength it takes to make change happen. Her campaign plans were bold: universal health care, universal preschool, new retirement accounts, a strategic energy fund. She was the first to jump on the housing crisis. She showed a relentless focus on substance and issues, which appealed to working-class and middle-class voters.
 She did show her warmer side, and campaigned often with her mom and with her daughter. But it was her strength as a warrior that voters saw -- as they had in New York -- as she won primary after primary against the odds. 
 President Clinton tirelessly served as her adviser, fund-raiser and relentless campaigner. He drew enormous crowds and gained significant votes for his wife. In Pennsylvania, for example, she won by almost double the typical margin in the rural and suburban counties he visited.
 The Clintons have spent their lives fighting as much as any leaders in their generation for greater equality across racial and gender lines. I believe nothing they said was ever intended to divide the country by race. Any suggestion to the contrary was perhaps the greatest injustice done to them in this campaign.
 Are there a lot of other things the campaign could have done differently? Of course. We should have taken on Mr. Obama more directly and much earlier, and we needed a different kind of operation to win caucuses and to retain the support of superdelegates. From more aggressively courting young people earlier to mobilizing the full power of women, there are things that could have been done differently. 
 While everyone loves to talk about the message, campaigns are equally about money and organization. Having raised more than $100 million in 2007, the Clinton campaign found itself without adequate money at the beginning of 2008, and without organizations in a lot of states as a result. Given her successes in high-turnout primary elections and defeats in low-turnout caucuses, that simple fact may just have had a lot more to do with who won than anyone imagines. 
 And sometimes your opponent just runs a good campaign.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID SUTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); SUPERDELEGATES (72%); COUNTIES (69%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (64%); SUBURBS (62%); CHILDREN (54%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



206 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MEYERSON, MONROE R.

 BODY:
 MEYERSON--Monroe R., born August 23, 1930, to Harry and Beatrice Meyerson in Brooklyn, NY, died June 6, 2008, in Boca Raton, FL. He leaves behind his beloved wife of 53 Years, Leila Mann Meyerson, his children, Cindie (Dr. Donald) Kastenbaum, David Meyerson, and Stuart (Lisa) Meyerson, and five wonderful grandchildren: Julie, Harry, Jessica, Samuel and Benjamin. He attended Poly Prep Day School where he achieved a football scholarship to the University of NC/Chapel Hill. He graduated from New York University with a degree in engineering and economics and later obtained an MBA from the Trinity School at NYU. 
As a graduate of ROTC, he became a pilot in the Air Force and was honorably discharged in 1955. He began his career as project manager at Centrig Industries, a small familyoperated construction company in NYC in 1956, and during his 35 year tenure as its Chairman and CEO, grew the company into an internationally recognized leader in heavy industrial construction and a world leader in the installation of newspaper presses, including The New York Times, Chicago Tribune, Miami Herald, San Fransisco Chronicle, Charlotte Observer, and the Washingon Post. As a result of having been a dialysis patient in 1992, Mr. Meyerson founded the Dialysis Centers of America (DCA) in 1995 with a strong commitment to improving the quality of care, treatment and outcomes for dialysis patients. Within three years, DCA grew from a single location to the largest kidney dialysis treatment in the Midwest. DCA'a greatest accomplishment was in the development of renal care informatics which became the ''golden rule'' adopted by the dialysis industry. In 1998, Mr. Meyerson founded the Radiology Corporation of America (RCOA), an innovator and early adopter of Positron Emission Tomography (PET), a new molecular imaging technology that improved the diagnosis and treatment of many diseases, including the early detection of cancer and Alzheimer's Disease. Mr. Meyerson was also instrumental in founding the Institute of Molecular Technology, a trade association which educated the medical community about the benefits of PET technology which led to the acceptance of reimbursement protocols under Medicare. As a result of his daughter's juvenile diabetes in 1967, Mr. Meyerson was a co-founder and the inspiration for the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation (JDF), both the New York chapter and the national organization, where he served as a Board member for many years. In addition, Mr. Meyerson was aformer Director of Gatekeeper Solutions, the Whitney Art Museum, Dance Theater of Harlem, Boca Rio Country Club, and a member of Chief Executives Organization, World Presidents' Organization and Young Presidents' Organization. He was a renaissance man involved in Arts and Theatre and his philanthropic endeavors included support of Technion University, Kravis Center for the Performing Arts, Broward Center for the Performing Arts, University of Minnesota, American Parkinson's Disease Foundation, among many others. Mr. Meyerson was an avid art collector of photorealism and supported many young artists. He generously donated art to both the St. Louis Art Museum and the Whitney Museum Of Art. Services will be held Tuesday, June 10th, 2008, 11:45am at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, the family requests contributions be made to M.D. Anderson Cancer Research Center, Houston, TX, and the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIALYSIS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (87%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (87%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (86%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); AIR FORCES (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); DIALYSIS CENTERS (71%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (71%); KIDNEY DISEASE (71%); CANCER (71%); DIABETES (71%); RADIOLOGY (70%); GENETIC & MOLECULAR MEDICINE (70%); DANCE COMPANIES (68%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (68%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (66%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); CHARITIES (66%); DANCE (60%); MEDICARE (60%); PHILANTHROPY (60%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008



207 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: RURAL U.S. TAKES WORST HIT AS GAS TOPS $4 AVERAGE

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: TCHULA, Miss. 

 BODY:
Gasoline prices reached a national average of $4 a gallon for the first time over the weekend, adding more strain to motorists across the country.
 But the pain is not being felt uniformly. Across broad swaths of the South, Southwest and the upper Great Plains, the combination of low incomes, high gas prices and heavy dependence on pickup trucks and vans is putting an even tighter squeeze on family budgets.
 Here in the Mississippi Delta, some farm workers are borrowing money from their bosses so they can fill their tanks and get to work. Some are switching jobs for shorter commutes.
 People are giving up meat so they can buy fuel. Gasoline theft is rising. And drivers are running out of gas more often, leaving their cars by the side of the road until they can scrape together gas money. 
 The disparity between rural America and the rest of the country is a matter of simple home economics. Nationwide, Americans are now spending about 4 percent of their take-home income on gasoline. By contrast, in some counties in the Mississippi Delta, that figure has surpassed 13 percent.
 As a result, gasoline expenses are rivaling what families spend on food and housing.
 ''This crisis really impacts those who are at the economic margins of society, mostly in the rural areas and particularly parts of the Southeast,'' said Fred Rozell, retail pricing director at the Oil Price Information Service, a fuel analysis firm. ''These are people who have to decide between food and transportation.''
 A survey by Mr. Rozell's firm late last month found that the gasoline crisis is taking the highest toll, as a percentage of income, on people in rural areas of the South, New Mexico, Montana, Wyoming and North and South Dakota.
 With the exception of rural Maine, the Northeast appears least affected by gasoline prices because people there make more money and drive shorter distances, or they take a bus or train to work.
 But across Mississippi and the rural South, little public transit is available and people have no choice but to drive to work. Since jobs are scarce, commutes are frequently 20 miles or more. Many of the vehicles on the roads here are old rundown trucks, some getting 10 or fewer miles to the gallon.
 The survey showed that of the 13 counties where people spent 13 percent or more of their family income on gasoline, 5 were located in Mississippi, 4 were in Alabama, 3 were in Kentucky and 1 was in West Virginia. While people here in Holmes County spent an average of 15.6 percent of their income on gasoline, people in Nassau County, N.Y., spent barely more than 2 percent, according to the survey.
 Economists say that despite widespread concern about gasoline prices, the nationwide impact of the oil crisis has so far been gentler than during the oil crises of the 1970s and 1980s, when shortages caused long lines at the pump, set off inflation and drove the economy into recession.
 Americans on average now spend about 4 percent of their after-tax income on transportation fuels, according to Brian A. Bethune, an economist at Global Insight, a forecasting firm. That compares with 4.5 percent in early 1981, the highest point since World War II. At its lowest point, in 1998, that share dropped to 1.9 percent. 
 ''Gas prices have doubled over the last year but the economy has not fallen off the cliff,'' said Rajeev Dhawan, director of the Economic Forecasting Center at Georgia State University. ''But for the rural lower income people, as a proportion of their income the rise of gas prices is very high.''
 While people everywhere are talking about gasoline prices these days, some folks in Tchula (the T is silent) have gone beyond talking.
 Anthony Clark, a farm worker from Tchula, says he prays every night for lower gasoline prices. He recently decided not to fix his broken 1992 Chevrolet Astro van because he could not afford the fuel. Now he hires friends and family members to drive him around to buy food and medicine for his diabetic aunt, and his boss sends a van to pick him up for the 10-mile commute to work.
 A trip from Tchula to the nearest sizable town about 15 minutes away can cost him $25 roundtrip -- for the driving and the waiting. That is about 10 percent of what he makes in a week.
 Taking a break under some cottonwood trees beside a drainage ditch filled with buzzing mosquitoes, Mr. Clark and members of his work crew spoke of the big and little changes that higher gas prices have brought. The extra dollars spent at the pump mean electric bills are going unpaid and macaroni is replacing meat at supper. Donations to church are being put off, and video rentals are now unaffordable.
 Cleveland Whiteside, who works with Mr. Clark and used to commute 30 miles a day, said his Jeep Cherokee was repossessed last month, because ''I paid so much for gas to get to work I couldn't pay my payments anymore.'' His employer, Larry Clanton, has lent him a pickup truck so he can get to work.
 Signs of pain and adaptation because of the cost of gas are everywhere. Local fried chicken restaurants are closing because people are eating out less. At the hardware store here, sales have plummeted to $30 a day from $250 a day a month ago.
 ''Money goes to gasoline -- I know mine does,'' said the hardware store's manager, Pam Williams, who tries to attract customers by putting out choice crickets for fishing bait beside the front door.
 Local governments are leaving grass high along the roads and doing fewer road repairs to save on fuel costs. The Holmes County government has cut the work week to four days to give workers gasoline relief (keeping the same total of hours), and politicians are even considering replacing sanitation workers with prison inmates on some shifts to conserve money for fuel. 
 The local price for a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline was roughly $3.85 last week, slightly below the national average, but the median family income in Holmes County is about $18,500.
 Nationwide, regular unleaded gasoline reached an average of $4.005 on Sunday, according to the American Automobile Association. That is the highest price ever and about a dollar higher than at the start of the year.
 While looking to cut workers at his fish processing plant in nearby Isola, Miss., Dick Stevens, president of Consolidated Catfish Producers, said that 10 workers walked into his office last week and volunteered to take a buyout rather than continue commuting from Charleston, Miss., 65 miles away. ''The gas ate them alive,'' he said. 
 Workers at the plant are trying to find ways to cope. Josephine Cage, who fillets fish, said her 30-mile commute from Tchula to Isola in her 1998 Ford Escort four days a week is costing her $200 a month, or nearly 20 percent of her pay.
 ''I make it by the grace of God,'' she said, and also by replacing meat at supper with soups and green beans and broccoli. She fills her car a little bit every day, because ''I can't afford to fill it up. Whatever money I have, I put it in.''
 Sociologists and economists who study rural poverty say the gasoline crisis in the rural South, if it persists, could accelerate population loss and decrease the tax base in some areas as more people move closer to urban manufacturing jobs. They warn that the high cost of driving makes low-wage labor even less attractive to workers, especially those who also have to pay for child care and can live off welfare and food stamps.
 ''As gas prices rise, working less could be the economically rational choice,'' said Tim Slack, a sociologist at Louisiana State University who studies rural poverty. ''That would mean lower incomes for the poor and greater distancefrom the mainstream.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Josephine Cage says her 30-mile commute to a fish processing plant costs $200 a month, or nearly 20 percent of her pay
 Workers in a corn field in Cruger, Miss. A survey found that people in 13 American counties, all in rural areas, spent 13 percent or more of their income on gasoline. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A15) MAP: WHERE GASOLINE PRICES HIT HARDEST: The counties where motorists spend the highest percentage of their income on gasoline tend to be in poor, rural areas. While California has some of the highest gas prices, its residents spend a smaller fraction of their income for gasoline. (Source: Oil Price Information Service) (pg. A1) Map showing the states where gasoline prices are highest to lowest in the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FAMILY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); GASOLINE (79%); BUDGETS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (75%); PRODUCT PRICING (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); FARM LABOR (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



208 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Visions for Coney Island Differ: Breathtaking Rides, or Shopping?

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Friday was a perfect beach day, warm and sunny but not as hot as the weekend to come, so proximity to water still felt like a luxury or a lark, not a health imperative. Maybe because it was a weekday, the stands and rides at Coney Island were mostly empty, but some of the barkers did not let that lull them into a torpor. 
 ''Young lady, I want to talk to you,'' said a man with longish gray hair, sitting in front of a game involving a basket and a ball. ''Young lady, do you have a minute? I want to explain something to you. Come on, give it a try. I guarantee you'll get a prize just for trying.'' When the woman waved and kept walking, he kept it up. ''You don't understand, I promise, you can't lose!'' 
 What city was this? What century? All that energy, that personally delivered, individually tailored salesmanship, all for the possibility of a $2 fee? It would have been a fun moment of street theater under any circumstances, but it also already felt, given its total lack of irony, given the inevitably of change to come, like a particularly vivid historical re-enactment, a scene from an urban, 20th-century equivalent of Colonial Williamsburg: Coney Island, back in the days before the great Bloomberg-led redevelopment of the early 21st century. 
 For the past 25 years, Dick Zigun, the founder and artistic director of Coney Island USA, an arts organization, has found a way to capitalize on that kind of small-scale seediness, the area's overlay of dissolution and current decay, and to elevate it to an aesthetic defining the area's art and entertainment. Back in the early '80s, Mr. Zigun created the Coney Island Circus Sideshow (complete with fire-eaters and contortionists) and launched the annual Mermaid Parade, both events that are hipster must-sees as well as good old-fashioned entertainment for the irony-free.
 Mr. Zigun, a major figure in the revitalization of the area and a frequent informal spokesman for the amusement industry's various proprietors, was willing to see Coney Island's particular grittiness, cherished by some, obliterated in the name of a major redevelopment plan announced by the city in 2003. 
 ''People find the seediness charming, and I realized that in terms of the way capitalism works and real estate works, you can't become enamored of the seediness,'' he said. 
 ''That's not what Coney Island was in its heyday.'' 
 Mr. Zigun was invoking the Coney Island of the early 20th century, when the amusement park sprawled across 70 acres, drawing both high-end and mass clientele to its spectacular state-of-the-art-rides and restaurants, its standing-room-only beach.
 The possibilities of the city's strategic plan for Coney Island seduced Mr. Zigun, who signed on and joined the board of the Coney Island Development Corporation. For the future he saw grandeur, spectacle, phantasms. He saw, specifically, 15 acres of open-air amusement park, a significant expansion over the current space, and, in that acreage, the possibility for the world's greatest urban amusement park. 
 Last April, the city reduced the area dedicated to an open-air amusement park to nine acres. Last week, frustrated with the plan and its trajectory, Mr. Zigun resigned from the board.
 The president of the corporation, Lynn Kelly, points out that 15 additional acres will still be zoned to allow for the possibility of amusements (including indoor venues that won't lose their appeal in the winter, a major concern about the earlier plan), as well as what the city is calling ''entertainment retail.'' Mr. Zigun's disappointment turns, in some part, on what he fears that will entail: a generic Coney Island inevitably overrun by stores like Niketown (which would be permitted, provided there's a climbing wall) or F. A. O. Schwarz (with a large keyboard the public can play on), rather than world-class rides. Stores with strong entertainment value would be welcome in numbers that would eventually be defined, said Ms. Kelly, who also envisions bowling alleys, an Imax theater and indoor bumper cars. 
 ''We have to create a balance to accommodate people's tastes and a regional draw,'' Ms. Kelly said. 
 Mr. Zigun and his team had hoped for a vast area where the commodity would be exclusively ''an experience, rather than a product,'' as Aaron Beebe, the director of Coney Island USA's museum put it. The corporation seems to be taking into account the reality that for this generation, shopping has become both an experience and an entertainment, a cheap or expensive thrill that can compete with any vertiginous high-speed ride. 
 Of course, as the history of Coney Island proves, entertainment tastes change, and the familiar shopping experience at, say, Abercrombie & Fitch, might lose its luster for the next generation of young people as the economy continues to darken; but that same economy might also make it hard to come by millions of dollars for investment in open-air (or enclosed, for that matter) amusement park rides. 
 Mr. Zigun's vision for Coney Island was imaginative and ambitious: Why not create the world's largest indoor swimming pool, with wave action for surfing, or indoor skiing, like they have in Japan? The ideas would sound outlandish, except to those familiar with the scope of Coney Island's offerings at the turn of the last century: theatrical re-creations of naval battles and tenement fires, scenic railways, a mechanical racetrack ride, a seemingly endless variety just as ambitious for its time. 
 When Mr. Zigun imagined the future of Coney Island, he said, ''I saw a fantasy land.''
 And that's what it may very well remain.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OLD-TIMEY FEEL: Relics from another era at Coney Island, clockwise from top left, the stairs at the Coney Island Museum list famous attractions
a wheel of chance game
the entrance to the museum (admission 99 cents)
and the Funny Face
EMBRACING CHANGE: Dick Zigun says he supports plans to redevelop Coney Island on a grand scale, but not if it means turning it into a mall. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B1)
 Dick Zigun at the Coney Island Museum. He has spent 25 years tapping the area's artistic, albeit seedy, aesthetic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); AMUSEMENTS & GAMING (72%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); STREET ART (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



209 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Greased Lightning

BYLINE: By GREG MELVILLE. 
Greg Melville is the author of the forthcoming ''Greasy Rider: Two Dudes, One Fry-Oil-Powered Car and a Cross-Country Search for a Greener Future.''

DATELINE: South Burlington, Vt. 

 BODY:
 FRYER grease bandits? Have people really begun pilfering waste oil from behind restaurants around the country to use as biodiesel, as I've been reading? I certainly hope so. Not that I'm condoning such an act. In addition to its illegality, waste oil banditry makes my own fuel search -- in my grease-powered 1985 Mercedes diesel station wagon -- more difficult. But at least the $4-a-gallon times are leading more drivers to find fossil fuel alternatives, just as I did when I converted my car a couple of years ago. 
 Yes, I drive on free fuel, with the scent of fried onion rings billowing from my tailpipe. At the time of my conversion, gas was around $2.20 a gallon. My neighbors laughed at me. With gas at double the price today, more and more people want to check out what's in my garage. Of course, what they find there isn't entirely pleasant. Waste vegetable oil power is a dirty business. My supplier Alex sets aside used grease in five-gallon containers that I pick up each week from his restaurant down the street. I take them to my garage and open the lids to invariably find a dark brown goo garnished by French fries and a sediment of meat scraps. I heat the contents for a few minutes in a metal gas can and pour them through a felt filter bag to be cleansed of impurities. Beneath my work area, a tire-sized slick coats the concrete floor, and whenever I open the garage door from the outside, I'm blasted by the scent of fast food. 
 The grease is then deposited directly into a 15-gallon tank installed in the back of my wagon, as part of the grease-power kit I bought for about $1,000. I paid $1,000 more to get everything installed in the wagon by a local mechanic. The kit heats the grease to a watery viscosity, so it travels quickly through the fuel lines. No major work was done to the engine, because when hot vegetable oil is ignited in a diesel engine's combustion chamber, it produces almost as much energy as petro diesel does -- so my fuel economy on grease is nearly the same as with petro diesel, about 20 miles per gallon. Better yet, my carbon footprint when driving is reduced by well more than half.
 Does it work? Well, not long ago a friend and I, armed with a mobile pumping and filtering system, drove cross-country. Relying on the generosity of other grease-powered drivers (there are more of us than you think!) and many restaurant owners, we made it from Vermont to California in six days. I should note that our clothes were soaked with oil stains by the time we arrived, and the car's interior smelled like the back of a garbage truck on a July afternoon.
 Unfortunately, Americans don't gorge themselves on enough French fries and jalapeno poppers to power every car, but vegetable vehicles like mine suggest that fossil fuel dependency is not as intractable a problem as we may believe. I mean, if I can drive across the country in a grease car -- and I've never been accused of having mechanical skills -- shouldn't American automobile companies and the government be able to find inexpensive and ingenious ways to improve fuel efficiency in all vehicles? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DIESEL FUEL (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FAST FOOD (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (65%) VERMONT, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



210 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Asian Gains Seen In Terror Fight

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT; Carlos H. Conde contributed reporting from Manila, and Seth Mydans from Bangkok.

DATELINE: SINGAPORE 

 BODY:
The deadliest terrorist networks in Southeast Asia have suffered significant setbacks in the past three years, weakened by aggressive policing, improved intelligence, enhanced military operations and an erosion of public support, government officials and counterterrorism specialists say. 
 Three years after the region's last major strike -- the attacks on three restaurants in Bali that killed three suicide bombers and 19 other people -- American and Asian intelligence analysts say financial and logistical support from Al Qaeda to other groups in the region has long dried up, and the most lethal are scrambling for survival. 
 In Indonesia, since 2005 authorities have arrested more than 200 members of Jemaah Islamiyah, an Islamic group with ties to Al Qaeda. In the Philippines, an American-backed military campaign has the Abu Sayyaf Group, an Islamic extremist organization with links to Jemaah Islamiyah, clinging to footholds in the jungles of a handful of southern islands, officials said. 
 Indonesia and the Philippines, which have faced the most serious terrorist threat in the region, have taken sharply different approaches to combat it. Each has achieved some success, offering lessons to American and allied counterterrorism efforts worldwide. But there are worrisome signs that the threat could rebound quickly. 
 A bombing at a Philippine air base in the southern island of Mindanao late last month killed two people and wounded 22 others. Peace talks between the Philippine government and the country's main Muslim separatist group are threatening to fall apart, which could ignite wider violence, building on deep anger about the country's military-first approach against Muslims. In February, the head of Jemaah Islamiyah in Singapore slipped out a prison bathroom window, hopped a fence and disappeared. 
 But senior American officials, government authorities in the region and counterterrorism specialists say that the most serious threats are on the wane -- in contrast to American intelligence assessments that Al Qaeda in the Pakistani tribal areas is resurgent and that regional affiliates like Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb are gaining strength. 
 ''The governments out here take it very seriously and, in my opinion, seem to be doing a very good job individually and working together to deal with that terrorist threat,'' Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, a former director of central intelligence, told reporters on June 1 at a regional security conference here. 
 Senior American intelligence officials began noting progress earlier this year. ''Southeast Asia continues to be a concern, although not nearly that which we might have envisioned two or three years ago,'' Michael E. Leiter, acting director of the National Counterterrorism Center, said in a speech in Washington in February. 
 The United States and Australia, in particular, have played major roles in helping Southeast Asian countries combat terrorist threats in the region. 
 More than 500 American personnel, including experts from the military Special Operations Forces, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Central Intelligence Agency and the Agency for International Development, are training and working with Philippine counterterrorism forces from a base in Zamboanga, a city in Mindanao. 
 The Pentagon recently awarded the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia a total of $27 million in coastal surveillance stations equipped with special radar, heat-detecting cameras and computers to help disrupt terrorists plying the Sulawesi sea lanes, according to documents sent to Congress. The Philippines also received nearly $6 million in night-vision goggles, body armor, helmets and radios. 
 In Indonesia, the Australian police provided sophisticated electronic surveillance capabilities that allowed local security forces to locate within days several militants who carried out an even deadlier bombing in Bali in 2002. The Australians are still helping the Indonesian police monitor telephone traffic, and, along with American officials, have helped train Indonesian lawyers, prosecutors and judges. 
 In contrast to the Philippines, where the United States is backing a more militarized approach, Indonesia has taken a different tack, in which terrorist suspects are treated well and encouraged to defect or to share information. 
 Indonesia explains that its friendly handling of detainees will make its government seem less of an enemy of Islam. The Indonesian police are skillful interrogators, their Western counterparts say, and there have been no credible reports of torture being used in Indonesia to break the rings or win the prosecutions.
 At the same time, the Indonesian government has been sentencing some prominent captives to long prison terms. Zarkasih, who uses one name and is believed to have been the leader of Jemaah Islamiyah from 2005 until his arrest last year, was sentenced in April to 15 years in prison. Abu Dujana, a deputy who led the group's military arm and was also arrested last year, was also sentenced to 15 years. 
 Azhari Husin, one of the most feared bomb makers in Asia, was killed by Indonesia's elite antiterrorism unit in 2005, but his second in command, Noordin Top, is still at large, American intelligence officials said. 
 ''Overall, the threat is far less in Indonesia than it was two or three years ago,'' said Sidney Jones, a senior adviser to the International Crisis Group in Jakarta and an expert on terrorism in Southeast Asia.
 Lt. Gen. Michael D. Maples, director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, voiced cautious optimism to Congress in February about the situation in Indonesia. He noted, though, that the fact that Indonesian authorities were seizing caches of weapons showed that insurgents were still trying to mount attacks. 
 In the Philippines, the government and the Pentagon say that the threat of the Abu Sayyaf has substantially diminished over the past few years, noting that several of the group's top officers, including its leader, Khaddfy Janjanlani, have been killed and its ranks have dwindled to about 200 from more than 1,000 in 2001, according to terrorism experts. 
 But there are clear indications the group can still do damage. In the attack on the Philippine air base on May 29, a cellphone-detonated bomb was apparently concealed in a bag belonging to a civilian commuter waiting to hitch a ride on a C-130 cargo plane outside Edwin Andrews Air Base in Zamboanga, police officials said. 
 The Philippine government blamed Abu Sayyaf as well as elements of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, a separatist group that has been fighting for an Islamic state in Mindanao for decades and that has been involved in peace talks with Manila. 
 It was not the first time that the Front had been accused of colluding with Abu Sayyaf. In the past, accusations that it had helped the group, as well as Jemaah Islamiyah, had threatened the peace negotiations, with the Front remaining adamant that it had nothing to do with these terrorists. It had said it would withdraw from the negotiations if the government continued its accusations. 
 An American-supported ''civil action'' campaign in the Philippines, involving building infrastructure for social services in communities and financing medical missions, has gained some praise. But in general, the government's campaign against Abu Sayyaf has been dominated by a heavy military approach that is often seen as broadly categorizing all Muslims together as a threat, which terror experts and analysts fear could backfire. 
 ''My real concern is that Philippine government has never had a comprehensive policy with Muslims in Mindanao,'' said Zachary Abuza, an expert on terrorism in Southeast Asia who teaches at Simmons College in Boston. 
 Lumping the Islamic Front with Abu Sayyaf will inflame those Filipino Muslims who are seeking self-determination through a peace effort, and make it harder for the Front to cooperate in fighting terrorism, said Abhoud Syed Lingga, the executive director of the Institute of Bangsamoro Studies, a research organization on Islamic issues in Cotabato City, in Mindanao.
 ''U.S. forces are strengthening the Philippine military and using civic action to drive a wedge between rebels and the Muslim populace,'' said a recent report by the International Crisis Group that referred to the Abu Sayyaf Group. ''But if their goal is to defeat the A.S.G. and its foreign, mainly Indonesian, jihadi allies, they are casting the net too widely and creating unnecessary enemies.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Zarkasih, chief of an Indonesian terrorist group, was sentenced in April to 15 years in prison. Security officials met recently in Singapore. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEMAL JUFRI/POLARIS, FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (pg. A8) MAP (pg. A8) Map of Singapore in India. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); RELIGION (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PEACE PROCESS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); JEMAAH ISLAMIYA (83%); ABU SAYYAF GROUP (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PHILIPPINES (94%); SINGAPORE (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); INDONESIA (93%); INDIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



211 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 305 words

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
SIGNALS ON THE ECONOMY Economic news will be led by the Federal Reserve's beige book report (Wednesday) and the Consumer Price Index for May (Friday). Together they will provide a measure of economic growth versus inflation. 
 Other reports will include the trade deficit for April (Tuesday); retail sales for May, import prices for May and business inventories for April (Thursday); and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index (Friday).
 THE REGULATORS The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Timothy F. Geithner, speaks at the Economic Club of New York (Monday).
 The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, gives the keynote address on the first day of the Boston Fed's 53rd annual research conference in Chatham, Mass. (Monday). Also at the conference, the vice chairman of the Fed, Donald L. Kohn, speaks on a panel on inflation (Wednesday). Other panelists include the governor of the Bank of Israel and the deputy governor of Sweden's central bank.
 A Senate Banking Committee hearing will examine securities underwriting practices at investment banks (Tuesday).
 The under secretary of the Treasury for domestic finance, Robert K. Steel, left, speaks in New York at The Wall Street Journal's Deals and DealMakers conference (Wednesday).
 The Federal Communications Commission conducts a hearing on whether it should take over jurisdiction of fees charged to consumers who cancel their cellphone contracts early (Thursday).
 ET CETERA Apple is expected to introduce its next-generation iPhone at its annual worldwide developers conference in San Francisco (Monday).
 A federal judge in Manhattan is expected to hear oral arguments in a proxy fight between CSX and two hedge funds that are seeking changes to the board (Monday).
 Group of 8 finance ministers meet in Osaka, Japan (Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); IMPORT PRICES (73%); INVENTORIES (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); BOARD CHANGES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); SMARTPHONES (69%); JUDGES (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (65%); RETAIL SALES (57%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); BANK OF ISRAEL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); OSAKA, JAPAN (76%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



212 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1733 words

HEADLINE: Marijuana Hotbed Retreats on Medicinal Use

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY; Jigar Mehta and Carolyn Marshall contributed reporting.

DATELINE: UKIAH, Calif. 

 BODY:
There is probably no marijuana-friendlier place in the country than here in Mendocino County, where plants can grow more than 15 feet high, medical marijuana clubs adopt stretches of highway, and the sticky, sweet aroma of cannabis fills this city's streets during the autumn harvest.
 Lately, however, residents of Mendocino County, like those in other parts of California, are wondering if the state's embrace of marijuana for medicinal purposes has gone too far. 
 Medical marijuana was legalized under state law by California voters in 1996, and since then 11 other states have followed, even though federal law still bans the sale of any marijuana. But some frustrated residents and law enforcement officials say the California law has increasingly and unintentionally provided legal cover for large-scale marijuana growers -- and the problems such big-money operations can attract.
 ''It's a clear shield for commercial operations,'' said Mike Sweeney, 60, a supporter of both medical marijuana and a local ballot measure on June 3 that called for new limits on the drug in Mendocino. ''And we don't want those here.'' 
 The outcome of the ballot measure is not known, as votes are still being counted, but such community push-back is increasingly common across the state, even in the most liberal communities. In recent years, dozens of local governments have banned or restricted cannabis clubs, more formally known as dispensaries, that provide medical marijuana, in the face of public safety issues involved in its sale and cultivation, including crime and environmental damage.
 ''If folks had to get their dope, sorry, they would just have to get it somewhere else,'' said Sheriff Mark Pazin of Merced County, east of San Francisco, one of the many jurisdictions to impose new restrictions.
 Under the 1996 law, known as Proposition 215, patients need a prescription to acquire medicinal marijuana, but the law gave little guidance as to how people were to acquire it. That gave rise to some patients with marijuana prescriptions growing their own in limited quantities, the opening of clubs to make it available and growers going large scale to keep those outlets supplied.
 In turn, that led to the kind of worries that have bubbled up in Arcata, home of Humboldt State University, where town elders say roughly one in five homes are ''indoor grows,'' with rooms or even entire structures converted into marijuana greenhouses. 
 That shift in cultivation, caused in part by record-breaking seizures by drug agents of plants grown outdoors, has been blamed for a housing shortage for Humboldt students, residential fires and the powerful -- and distracting -- smell of the plant in some neighborhoods during harvest.
 ''I naively thought it was a skunk,'' said Jeff Knapp, an Arcata resident who has a neighbor who is a grower.
 In May, Arcata declared a moratorium on clubs to allow the city council time to address the problem. Los Angeles, which has more than 180 registered marijuana clubs, the most of any city, also declared a moratorium last year.
 ''There were a handful initially and then all the sudden, they started to sprout up all over,'' said Dennis Zine, a member of the Los Angeles City Council. ''We had marijuana facilities next to high schools and there were high school kids going over there and there was a lot of abuse taking place.''
 But while even advocates of medical marijuana say they recognize that the system has problems, they question the bans. ''I think there's no doubt there's been abuse, but there's probably no system created by human beings that hasn't been abused,'' said Bruce Mirken, the director of communications for the Marijuana Policy Project in Washington, which promotes the drug's legalization. ''But the answer to that is not the wholesale throwing out the baby with the bath water.''
 All told, about 80 California cities have adopted moratoriums with more than 60 others banning the clubs outright, according to Americans for Safe Access, which advocates for medical marijuana research and treatment. Eleven counties have adopted some sort of ban or moratorium. 
 Such laws have led to a kind of Prohibition patchwork of ''wet'' and ''dry'' areas. In Visalia, a city of 120,000 in the state's Central Valley, the local club was denied a permit on Main Street, so instead set up shop on a lonely section of country highway. Other clubs have retreated into people's homes. 
 Kris Hermes, legal campaign director for Americans for Safe Access, said that despite the bans, 8 counties and about 30 cities had also established regulations meant to legitimize the clubs. 
 Mr. Zine said the moratorium in Los Angeles would allow city officials time to develop regulations and zoning, something advocates for medical marijuana say they welcome.
 ''There's tons of human behavior that you and I might not want to have anything to do with,'' said Allen St. Pierre, the executive director of the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, or Norml, a nonprofit advocacy group in Washington. ''But if they are legal, there ought to be a legal means to purchase the commodity and do business.'' 
 Such regulations were passed in 2005 in San Francisco, which now has a 10-page application for a club permit. 
 Kevin Reed, owner of the Green Cross, was the first owner to get a permit in January. But he said some of the city's other two dozen clubs were struggling to get their paperwork. ''It's taking substantially more time to move through the permit process than was envisioned,'' Mr. Reed said in an e-mail message. The city's board just extended the permit deadline until next year.
 New regulations are also in the offing for local and state law enforcement, which has often found itself confused by the overlapping -- and sometimes contradictory -- federal, state and local laws. Under a state law that took effect in 2004, counties can set their own limits on the amount of medical marijuana; in Mendocino, for example, growers are allowed 25 mature plants, while most counties allow six. 
 Jerry Brown, the state attorney general, plans to release guidelines this summer to clarify the differences.
 ''These dispensaries aren't supposed to be big profit centers,'' Mr. Brown said. ''This is supposed to be for individual use.'' 
 The 2004 law also recognized the right of patients and caregivers to cultivate marijuana as a group, something law enforcement officials say has been abused.
 Bob Nishiyama, the major crimes task force commander in Mendocino County, said there were places with 500 plants and 20 Proposition 215 letters tacked to a fence. ''And technically, that's legal because people can have 25 plants,'' he said.
 By any measure, medical marijuana in California is a moneymaker. In March, a group of California club owners testified before the state Board of Equalization that their industry had pumped some $100 million in sales tax into state coffers, representing more than $1 billion in sales.
 Like many law enforcement officials, Mr. Nishiyama says he does not have a problem with medical marijuana, just with those who are exploiting it. 
 ''If you're growing six plants and smoking it in your own house, I could care less,'' he said.
 Most states that have passed subsequent medical marijuana laws have been more precise than California voters were in 1996. New Mexico, for example, allows only patients with seven medical conditions, including cancer, AIDS and epilepsy, to receive medical marijuana. 
 ''California is an aberration, because it does not designate specific disease types, it does not designate weights or plant source, and it has what might be the most fungible or elastic definition of care-giver,'' said Mr. St. Pierre, of Norml. Every proposition after Proposition 215 has been ''narrower and narrower and more restrictive in scope,'' he said.
 Also complicating law enforcement's job is that marijuana is still illegal in the eyes of the federal government, which has been increasingly aggressive about prosecuting club owners they feel have crossed the line into commercial drug dealing.
 Among those recently convicted in California include a doctor and his wife from Cool who were given five years each in March for conspiracy to sell marijuana and growing more than 100 plants; a club owner from Bakersfield who pleaded guilty in March to possession of 40 pounds of marijuana with intent to distribute; and Luke Scarmazzo, a 28-year-old club owner and aspiring rapper who faces 20 years to life in prison after a conviction last month for running a multimillion-dollar club in Modesto that the government called a criminal enterprise.
 And last year, the Drug Enforcement Administration threatened to seize buildings from landlords who rented space to clubs, resulting in some closings across the state.
 For all the federal and local opposition, marijuana as medicine has become an accepted part of life in many communities in California. Advocates say the drug helps patients with everything from the wasting effects of chemotherapy and AIDS to treatment of anxiety and headaches.
 But it is not cheap. At Med X, the raided Los Angeles club, the most expensive marijuana, called Blueberry Kush, was priced at $490 an ounce. That economic impact includes numerous ancillary businesses that serve the cannabis culture, including thriving horticulture shops, and Oakland's Oaksterdam University, a trade school where students can sign up for semester-long courses on marijuana cultivation. 
 For some, growing has become a second career. In Arcata, a 29-year-old man, who asked that his name not to be used for fear of arrest, said that he earned about $25,000 every three months from selling marijuana grown in a back room to club owners from Southern California. 
 But others in Arcata are less welcoming. Kevin L. Hoover, the editor of the local newspaper, The Eye, has made a practice of confronting people he believes are growing marijuana. Their houses are easy to spot, he said -- covered windows, tall fences, cars coming and going late at night. ''Sometimes the whine of fans,'' he said.
 Those fans, of course, are eating electrical power, something that also irks many. 
 ''We're all trying to reduce our carbon footprint, but in these places the meters are spinning off the wall,'' said Mayor Mark Wheetley of Arcata. ''When do you say, enough is enough?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: This man says he makes $25,000 every three months selling marijuana grown in a bedroom in his rented house in Arcata, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A17) MAP: MEDICAL MARIJUANA REGULATION IN CALIFORNIA: Medical marijuana is legal in California, but rules for possession are determined locally. In 2003, the state passed legislation that allows doctor-approved individuals to apply for an identification card. Individual enrollment in the program is voluntary. The map represents only a portion of the estimated 200,000 patients in California who use medical marijuana. (Source: California Department of Public Health, U.S. Census Bureau and Americans for Safe Access) (pg. A17) Map showing California's regulation process when it comes to marijuana used for medical purposes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (93%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (93%); HERBAL MEDICINE (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); BALLOTS (75%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



213 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Nations Vow to Cut Oil Use

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: AOMORI, Japan 

 BODY:
The world's leading economies and oil consumers are pledging greater investment in energy efficiency and green technologies to curtail petroleum use. 
 In a joint statement on Sunday, energy ministers from the Group of 8 countries, the United States, Japan, Russia, Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada, joined by China, India and South Korea, also urged oil producers to increase output, which has stalled at about 85 million barrels a day since 2005. They also called for cooperation between buyers and producers.
 But with little prospect for a surge in production anytime soon, the focus of Sunday's meeting was on what wealthy nations should do to rein in consumption, while reducing carbon emissions blamed for global warming.
 While the nations did not pledge specific amounts of money, they said they would set goals in line with International Energy Agency recommendations for a vast expansion of investment in renewable energies and energy efficiency.
 The G-8 countries said they would begin 20 demonstration projects by 2010.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (88%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); EMISSIONS (88%); OIL EXTRACTION (88%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (88%); GLOBAL WARMING (87%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (91%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOHOKU, JAPAN (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (91%); CANADA (91%); JAPAN (90%); CHINA (90%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



214 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Student Loans

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Student Loans Start to Bypass 2-Year Colleges'' (front page, June 2): 
 Students now have fewer resources available to pay tuition. Big banks have turned their backs by pulling federal loans from two-year colleges, leaving working families scrambling for a new route to fulfill higher education hopes.
 Fortunately, student loans are not the only way for middle-class families to afford college. Federal grant aid is a small investment that can help talented students afford higher education and graduate with the skills needed to strengthen the global economy. 
 It's time for Congress to stop stalling and renew the Higher Education Act. This comprehensive legislation guiding higher education could make grants more accessible and alleviate the problems caused by big businesses concerned more with the future of their companies than the future of our country.
 Gabriel Pendas President, United States Student Association Washington, June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (88%); EDUCATION LAW (88%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); FAMILY (87%); LEGISLATION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



215 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Helping the Katrina Homeless

 BODY:
New Orleans is struggling with a growing number of sick and disabled people who have become homeless since the hurricane. This crisis will only get worse until local, state and federal officials come together behind a plan that finds short-term housing for them immediately, and permanent affordable housing for them quickly. 
 Congress can start by approving a modest, $73 million in funding to house many of the region's ill and disabled residents, who would also be provided with psychiatric and social services. Such a measure passed the Senate, but it is facing resistance in the House.
 Congress also needs to take at least two additional steps to prevent even more people from becoming homeless in New Orleans, where rents have soared since the storm. It should extend the disaster housing assistance program, which is set to expire in March 2009, so more people are not forced into the streets. It should also rewrite federal disaster law to permit the Department of Housing and Urban Development to provide the long-term assistance that thousands of hurricane survivors are clearly going to need. 
 In New Orleans, homeless services agencies estimate that the homeless population has doubled since the storm. The homeless are said to be sicker and more severely disabled than in the past. Outreach workers have come across people suffering from severe mental disorders, as well as from cancer, AIDS and end-stage kidney disease.
 In what could be a harbinger of things to come, 30 percent of the people surveyed in one homeless encampment reported that they had moved onto the streets after being cut off from Federal Emergency Management Agency housing assistance or while living in a household that had lost the benefit. 
 The state of Louisiana has committed itself to creating 3,000 units of supportive housing targeted to extremely low-income families, which includes many people with disabilities and special needs. But for the units to be affordable, Congress must pass the $73 million in funding to pay for rent subsidies.
 This would be a terrible place to economize. The dollar amount is small, and the lives of some of this country's most vulnerable citizens -- who were already abandoned once by their government -- are at stake. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FAMILY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); AIDS & HIV (67%); KIDNEY DISEASE (65%); CITIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



216 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: American Military Supercomputer Sets Speed Record

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
An American military supercomputer, assembled from components originally designed for video game machines, has reached a long-sought-after computing milestone by processing more than 1.026 quadrillion calculations per second.
 The new machine is more than twice as fast as the previous fastest supercomputer, the I.B.M. BlueGene/L, which is based at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California.
 The new $133 million supercomputer, called Roadrunner in a reference to the state bird of New Mexico, was devised and built by engineers and scientists at I.B.M. and Los Alamos National Laboratory, based in Los Alamos, N.M. It will be used principally to solve classified military problems to ensure that the nation's stockpile of nuclear weapons will continue to work correctly as they age. The Roadrunner will simulate the behavior of the weapons in the first fraction of a second during an explosion.
 Before it is placed in a classified environment, it will also be used to explore scientific problems like climate change. The greater speed of the Roadrunner will make it possible for scientists to test global climate models with higher accuracy. 
 To put the performance of the machine in perspective, Thomas P. D'Agostino, the administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration, said that if all six billion people on earth used hand calculators and performed calculations 24 hours a day and seven days a week, it would take them 46 years to do what the Roadrunner can in one day.
 The machine is an unusual blend of chips used in consumer products and advanced parallel computing technologies. The lessons that computer scientists learn by making it calculate even faster are seen as essential to the future of both personal and mobile consumer computing.
 The high-performance computing goal, known as a petaflop -- one thousand trillion calculations per second -- has long been viewed as a crucial milestone by military, technical and scientific organizations in the United States, as well as a growing group including Japan, China and the European Union. All view supercomputing technology as a symbol of national economic competitiveness. 
 By running programs that find a solution in hours or even less time -- compared with as long as three months on older generations of computers -- petaflop machines like Roadrunner have the potential to fundamentally alter science and engineering, supercomputer experts say. Researchers can ask questions and receive answers virtually interactively and can perform experiments that would previously have been impractical.
 ''This is equivalent to the four-minute mile of supercomputing,'' said Jack Dongarra, a computer scientist at the University of Tennessee who for several decades has tracked the performance of the fastest computers. 
 Each new supercomputing generation has brought scientists a step closer to faithfully simulating physical reality. It has also produced software and hardware technologies that have rapidly spilled out into the rest of the computer industry for consumer and business products.
 Technology is flowing in the opposite direction as well. Consumer-oriented computing began dominating research and development spending on technology shortly after the cold war ended in the late 1980s, and that trend is evident in the design of the world's fastest computers. 
 The Roadrunner is based on a radical design that includes 12,960 chips that are an improved version of an I.B.M. Cell microprocessor, a parallel processing chip originally created for Sony's PlayStation 3 video-game machine. The Sony chips are used as accelerators, or turbochargers, for portions of calculations.
 The Roadrunner also includes a smaller number of more conventional Opteron processors, made by Advanced Micro Devices, which are already widely used in corporate servers. 
 ''Roadrunner tells us about what will happen in the next decade,'' said Horst Simon, associate laboratory director for computer science at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. ''Technology is coming from the consumer electronics market and the innovation is happening first in terms of cellphones and embedded electronics.''
 The innovations flowing from this generation of high-speed computers will most likely result from the way computer scientists manage the complexity of the system's hardware.
 Roadrunner, which consumes roughly three megawatts of power, or about the power required by a large suburban shopping center, requires three separate programming tools because it has three types of processors. Programmers have to figure out how to keep all of the 116,640 processor cores in the machine occupied simultaneously in order for it to run effectively.
 ''We've proved some skeptics wrong,'' said Michael R. Anastasio, a physicist who is director of the Los Alamos National Laboratory. ''This gives us a window into a whole new way of computing. We can look at phenomena we have never seen before.''
 Solving that programming problem is important because in just a few years personal computers will have microprocessor chips with dozens or even hundreds of processor cores. The industry is now hunting for new techniques for making use of the new computing power. Some experts, however, are skeptical that the most powerful supercomputers will provide useful examples.
 ''If Chevy wins the Daytona 500, they try to convince you the Chevy Malibu you're driving will benefit from this,'' said Steve Wallach, a supercomputer designer who is chief scientist of Convey Computer, a start-up firm based in Richardson, Tex.
 Those who work with weapons might not have much to offer the video gamers of the world, he suggested.
 Many executives and scientists see Roadrunner as an example of the resurgence of the United States in supercomputing.
 Although American companies had dominated the field since its inception in the 1960s, in 2002 the Japanese Earth Simulator briefly claimed the title of the world's fastest by executing more than 35 trillion mathematical calculations per second. Two years later, a supercomputer created by I.B.M. reclaimed the speed record for the United States. The Japanese challenge, however, led Congress and the Bush administration to reinvest in high-performance computing.
 ''It's a sign that we are maintaining our position,'' said Peter J. Ungaro, chief executive of Cray, a maker of supercomputers. He noted, however, that ''the real competitiveness is based on the discoveries that are based on the machines.''
 Having surpassed the petaflop barrier, I.B.M. is already looking toward the next generation of supercomputing. ''You do these record-setting things because you know that in the end we will push on to the next generation and the one who is there first will be the leader,'' said Nicholas M. Donofrio, an I.B.M. executive vice president.
 By breaking the petaflop barrier sooner than had been generally expected, the United States' supercomputer industry has been able to sustain a pace of continuous performance increases, improving a thousandfold in processing power in 11 years. The next thousandfold goal is the exaflop, which is a quintillion calculations per second, followed by the zettaflop, the yottaflop and the xeraflop.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Roadrunner supercomputer costs $133 million and will be used to study nuclear weapons. (PHOTOGRAPH BY I.B.M.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPERCOMPUTERS (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%); MODELING & SIMULATION (78%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); PARALLEL COMPUTING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



217 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM ST. PETERSBURG; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Money Talks at Russian Forum as Business Leaders See Beyond Investment Hurdles

BYLINE: By ALISON SMALE

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Russia 

 BODY:
The lineup told it all about Russia's importance today. There, on one stage, sat the leaders of BP, Royal Dutch Shell, Chevron, Exxon Mobil, ConocoPhillips, Total, Schlumberger and Dow Chemical, as well as the chairman of the Russian energy giant Gazprom and the president of the Russian oil company Lukoil.
 The busy executives of the global energy industry, by their very willingness to sit together at an economic conference here over the weekend, were sending a powerful message that big Western businesses were in Russia to stay. 
 They may be worried about the weak rule of law, corruption and lack of an independent judiciary, as seen in recent troubles confronting BP and Shell with their Russian partners. But that is not likely to stop them from swarming around the honey pot for large contracts and access to the resources of Russia, one of the world's largest energy exporters and fastest growing economies in an era of $130-a-barrel oil. 
 And while politicians in Western Europe fret over their own inability to develop a cohesive energy policy -- and some fan fears of a newly resurgent, aggressive Russia -- many of the sharpest minds who gathered here at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum seemed focused on something quite different: ensuring that Russians benefit from economic plenty this time, as opposed to the heady era of privatization in the 1990s, which benefited only a few.
 In a speech on Sunday that was keenly awaited by liberals in Russia's business elite, a first deputy prime minister, Igor Shuvalov, listed the ''many hurdles'' on this path: an over-reliance on energy exports, a falling population, a lack of modern skills, an unhealthy way of life and a state apparatus with a tendency to meddle.
 ''Russia should be a country that people want to live in,'' Mr. Shuvalov said in remarks that seemed uncharacteristically self-deprecating for a top Russian official these days.
 Mr. Shuvalov's audience filled less than half of the hall. It had been packed on Saturday when the new president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, took subtle aim at the United States, suggesting that the world might be in the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression and that a revived Russia could offer solutions to problems that have underscored America's shortcomings.
 But the crowd on Sunday was rapt as Russian and Western business executives peered out to make projections on Russia's state and standing in 2020.
 So much has changed, so fast, in the past decade here that there is little clarity on how to proceed. As one Russian participant, Alexander V. Izosimov of the cellphone operator VimpelCom, said, ''The road to hell is paved with good intentions.''
 Jim O'Neill, who is the chief economist of Goldman Sachs -- and credited with coining the phrase ''BRIC countries'' to describe Brazil, Russia, India and China becoming leaders among world economies -- surprised the crowd by predicting a conservative overall average of 3.3 percent annual economic growth in Russia by 2020, down from growth around 8 percent now. 
 Russia, Mr. O'Neill said, will have a 4 percent share of world's gross domestic product then, compared with 2 percent now. But he said it would be weaker relative to Brazil, India and China because of far fewer people at work. India alone is expected to grow by 300 million people -- twice Russia's current population.
 Michael Klein, chairman and chief executive of the institutional clients group of Citigroup, was more ebullient: ''The future will exceed by a big stretch the plans for 2020'' -- the Russian government's target date for certain improvements. 
 ''Russia is clearly one of the most successful economic stories of the decade,'' he said, and possibly ''the first scale economy to sustainably avoid the resource curse,'' the evils often brought by easy money from commodities like oil and natural gas. 
 Anatoly B. Chubais, a former deputy prime minister despised by many Russians over the inequities of the 1990s privatization program he led, even broached a subject normally taboo: the moribund, regimented state of politics, which has crystallized around the Kremlin and Vladimir V. Putin, the prime minister and previous president (who this weekend left his protege, Mr. Medvedev, to shine alone in their hometown). 
 ''We can't avoid discussing the political component of the state's impact on the economy,'' Mr. Chubais said in careful language. ''The state must be judged from the point of view of quality of services that it provides for the country as a whole. In my understanding, it is impossible to evaluate the quality of this service without real give and take and a truly competitive political mechanism.''
 Few in today's Russia -- from those surviving on the equivalent of $158 a month to a tiny elite used to the really good life -- worry publicly about political freedoms.
 Many are still simply poor. Some are consumed with consuming; others worry about how to lock in economic gains.
 There is much talk of the rule of law, but mostly in connection with property rights. Indeed, this is a lesson that Russia's current elite -- headlong in its embrace of new fads and the world's new economic order -- has absorbed from the West.
 If the big-energy men gathered over the weekend had a clear worry, it was this: that the huge investments they must make to get to Russia's oil and natural gas would fail to yield returns because the government changed the rules. That is what happened, most recently, to Shell over its investments on Sakhalin Island and may now be happening to BP. In both cases, the Kremlin asserts that it has not interfered directly.
 But, like some Europeans in the military and energy spheres, the companies are wary.
 Rex Tillerson, chairman and chief executive of Exxon Mobil, stressed that Russia ''must improve the functioning of its judicial system and its judiciary. There is no respect for the rule of law in Russia today.''
 In both cases, differences stretch back beyond the past decade of prosperity to the 1990s. In the West today, some paint Russia as newly defiant of NATO expansion, ignoring that Russia in the 1990s was equally defiant but too weak to be convincing.
 As Mr. Klein of Citigroup put it, for the West the 1990s was the ''period of transformation in Russia,'' when Communism crumbled and free markets and democracy got their start.
 He suggested that Russians preferred to emphasize the radical changes of the 2000s. But these successes are based on the export of such basic resources that Western consumers, attuned to China's conspicuous brands and advances, are almost suspicious, he said.
 ''The High Street and Main Street do not understand the Russian achievement,'' he said.
 In the same vein, Alexei Miller, chairman of Gazprom, said he found it ''simply astounding'' that anyone should fear its advance from energy supplier into direct deliverer to European customers. 
 Misunderstanding has plagued Russia's complex relations with the outside world for centuries. In St. Petersburg, Peter the Great's window to the West, the weekend produced a royal show of at least momentary unity. Foreign and Russian business elites plunged together into a world where their money might talk even more loudly than the military prowess from which Russia historically has drawn strength.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Russia's economic minister, Elvira S. Nabiullina, on stage Sunday at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ITAR-TASS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); CHEMICALS (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); POPULATION DECLINE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); LIBERALISM (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (94%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (93%); BP PLC (92%); OAO GAZPROM (72%); OAO LUKOIL (72%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); VIMPELCOM LTD (50%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (94%); RDSA (AMS) (94%); RDS.B (NYSE) (94%); RDS.A (NYSE) (94%); COP (NYSE) (93%); BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%); OGZD (LSE) (72%); GAZP (RTS) (72%); LKOH (RTS) (72%); LKOD (LSE) (72%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); DOW (SWX) (58%); DOW (NYSE) (58%); DOW (LSE) (58%); 4850 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); VIP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (94%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (93%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (93%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (93%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (72%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (72%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



218 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1961 words

HEADLINE: From a Whistle-Blower to a Target

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO

 BODY:
On May 14, 2001, Joseph A. Ripp, the newly appointed chief financial officer of America Online, faxed a letter to the Las Vegas offices of the accounting firm Arthur Andersen with disturbing news: it appeared that an AOL business partner, and Arthur Andersen client, had forged a signature on a contract and booked several million dollars of sham revenue.
 That letter set off a chain of events that culminated in the accounting scandal that followed Time Warner's merger with AOL, including huge fines and criminal convictions. Mr. Ripp, a longtime finance executive at Time Warner who had been sent to AOL's Dulles, Va., headquarters to oversee the accounting operations there, was called one of the ''white hats'' in the whole affair by the Justice Department.
 But three weeks ago, on May 19, the Securities and Exchange Commission, after nearly six years of investigating accounting at AOL, filed a civil lawsuit against eight former executives alleging financial fraud. Seven were AOL executives before the merger; the eighth was Mr. Ripp. 
 Through his lawyer, Mr. Ripp declined to comment. But many of his old colleagues at Time Warner said they were flabbergasted by the turn of events. 
 ''I think it's fair to say that everyone at Time Inc. is completely shocked by this. Joe Ripp is as far from being a crook as anyone you'll ever know,'' said John Huey, the editor in chief of Time Inc., who also described the complaint as ''almost Kafkaesque.''
 Gerald M. Levin, the former chief executive of Time Warner, said of Mr. Ripp, ''This is precisely the type of guy you'd want to manage your financial group.''
 Mr. Ripp's journey from whistle-blower to defendant is another example of the long shadow cast by the AOL-Time Warner merger, now widely regarded as one of the most disastrous corporate marriages in history. It is also a cautionary tale for corporate executives who may illuminate fraudulent conduct to one government agency but then find themselves a target of another. 
 ''This is one of the huge challenges any corporate executive faces when the federal government comes after you,'' said C. Evan Stewart, a securities lawyer at Zuckerman Spaeder in Manhattan and a law professor at Brooklyn Law School and Fordham Law School. ''You face this whipsaw from different competing government agencies.''
 How did Mr. Ripp, who successfully minded the finances of Time Inc. for 25 years and has been lauded by Justice lawyers as a pivotal figure in exposing criminal fraud at AOL, wind up in the cross hairs of the S.E.C.?
 The S.E.C. claims Mr. Ripp ''knowingly or recklessly engineered, oversaw and executed a scheme to artificially and materially inflate the company's reported online advertising revenue.''
 The S.E.C.'s complaint highlighted several well-scrutinized AOL advertising deals, most prominently a $400 million one with the German media giant Bertelsmann. That deal resulted in a Time Warner restatement of earnings in 2005 and S.E.C. wrist slaps for three executives, who were allowed to keep their jobs. 
 Scott W. Friestad, an associate director in the S.E.C.'s division of enforcement, said Mr. Ripp ''wasn't the architect or the originator of the conduct.''
 ''He came to the party later than the others,'' Mr. Friestad said. But, he added, ''We don't view Mr. Ripp as an innocent bystander.''
 At Time Inc., Mr. Ripp had a reputation for being cautious when confronted with accounting questions. He was not even aware of Time Warner's talks with AOL leading up to the deal.
 ''He was the type of C.F.O. that annoyed people because he was so prissy,'' Mr. Huey said. 
 Mr. Huey's predecessor, Norman Pearlstine, now the chief content officer at Bloomberg L.P., said, ''any allegations of fraud are inconsistent with the man I knew at Time Inc.''
 On Jan. 7, 2000, Mr. Levin assembled his top executives to inform them of the merger deal. Nina Munk, the author of ''Fools Rush In,'' a book on the deal, wrote of that meeting: ''Joe Ripp, the company's chief financial officer, was numb. Levin hadn't consulted him! A no-nonsense numbers man, Ripp had devoted his entire career to Time Inc. and then Time Warner.'' 
 After a long career tending to the books at Time Inc. -- he began working with the publishing house in 1975 as an accountant at Ernst & Young -- and its parent, Time Warner, Mr. Ripp found himself out of a job after the Time Warner-AOL merger because AOL's chief financial officer took on that role with the parent company. He had four years left on his contract with Time Warner. He could have simply collected a nice sum and just gone fishing. Instead he went to AOL at the urging of his bosses.
 ''Joe was sent in to make sure they had the kind of financial talent on the management team they needed,'' recalled Don Logan, the former chief executive of Time Inc., who was once Mr. Ripp's boss.
 Mr. Ripp arrived in Virginia at a crucial time: the deal between Time Warner and AOL was being completed, and the Internet economy was deflating. AOL was under intense pressure to meet its financial targets to justify the price of the Time Warner deal. 
 In another book about the deal, ''There Must Be a Pony in Here Somewhere,'' by Kara Swisher, Mr. Ripp recalled management problems he encountered at AOL, particularly with the chief executive at the time, Barry Schuler, ''Schuler used to constantly tell me that I thought like an old media guy, and I said, 'Good, because all you new media guys are going bankrupt.' '' 
 It was a volatile set of circumstances, and at the center was David M. Colburn, the aggressive head of AOL's business affairs unit known for his cowboy boots, permanent five o'clock shadow and tendency to dress down employees in full view of others. 
 Mr. Colburn's deputy and top dealmaker, Eric L. Keller, was suspended by Mr. Ripp shortly after Mr. Ripp arrived in Dulles and started an investigation into Mr. Keller's dealings with PurchasePro, a software company that had engaged in several dubious transactions with AOL. (On the day the S.E.C. filed suit against Mr. Ripp, the agency announced it had reached settlements with Mr. Colburn and Mr. Keller.)
 According to several people involved with AOL at the time and documents from a criminal fraud case against PurchasePro, Mr. Ripp played a crucial role in uncovering fraudulent transactions between AOL and two business partners: PurchasePro and Homestore, an online real estate company. Those companies were central to Time Warner's settlement with the S.E.C. in 2005.
 According to prosecutors, the case against PurchasePro was precipitated by the letter that Mr. Ripp wrote in 2001 -- a letter that was described as a ''neutron bomb'' by a prosecutor in the ensuing litigation.
 The letter also led to the downfall of the PurchasePro founder, Charles E. Johnson Jr. Four days before the S.E.C. complaint against Mr. Ripp was filed in United States District Court in New York for the Southern District, a federal judge in Alexandria, Va., convicted Mr. Johnson of fraud in connection with dealings years ago between PurchasePro and AOL. 
 Mr. Johnson was accused, among other things, of shredding and burning AOL-related documents and then spreading the ashes on the lawn of his personal assistant's suburban Las Vegas home in early 2001.
 ''Joe Ripp was not part of the conspiracy at AOL,'' Adam A. Reeves, a trial lawyer in the criminal division of the Justice Department, said in his opening statement in 2005 during a trial against another former PurchasePro executive. ''He was one of the white hats in this case that helped reveal the fraud. The outside auditors, the board members, the internal investigators, all refer to the so-called Ripp letter as a bombshell.''
 In one of the government's exhibits in the case, a handwritten notation on one of PurchasePro's old financial statements reads, ''Ripp letter killed these,'' next to revenue figures supposedly derived from marketing arrangements with AOL.
 Mr. Ripp's lawyer, David F. Geneson, of the Washington law firm Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton, said recently, ''Mr. Ripp is a straight shooter who consistently uncovered fraud and did not commit it. When Mr. Ripp was named C.F.O. of the AOL division, he quickly discovered serious problems. He launched an investigation and hired outside auditors and lawyers, and revealed fraud that triggered two federal prosecutions.'' 
 In the case of Homestore, Mr. Geneson said Mr. Ripp had a lieutenant draft a letter to Homestore's accountants that revealed the fraudulent nature of several transactions. A Justice Department official involved in the prosecution against Homestore, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he did not want to been seen as criticizing another government agency, said Mr. Ripp's accounting treatment of deals between AOL and Homestore helped the government make its case and detect fraud. 
 Many of the dubious transactions at AOL, which led the company to inflate its advertising revenue by more than $1 billion, were so-called round trip deals with vendors. A typical example was that AOL would pay an inflated price for services or products, like computers or servers; in return, the vendor would then purchase online advertising.
 Neither the PurchasePro nor Homestore cases are mentioned in the S.E.C.'s complaint against Mr. Ripp. Instead, the S.E.C. says that Mr. Ripp failed to properly account for revenue from several other deals, including a transaction with WorldCom that served to inflate AOL's revenues by more than $50 million in 2001, and the accounting for a deal in which Bertelsmann paid AOL Time Warner $400 million. 
 That money was improperly booked as online advertising revenue when it should have been accounted for as a reduction in the price that AOL paid for Bertelsmann's stake in AOL Europe, regulators said. It is this transaction that much of the S.E.C.'s case against Mr. Ripp seems to pivot on. 
 Mr. Geneson said Mr. Ripp was minimally involved with the Bertelsmann deal, which was put together and overseen by higher-ups at Time Warner headquarters in New York. Mr. Geneson added that Mr. Ripp at one point even suggested to senior executives at headquarters that they should consider additional public disclosure because it was a large deal that probably would not recur the following year.
 ''You would think he would get some credit for being a whistle-blower,'' said Mr. Stewart, the New York securities lawyer, ''that someone at the S.E.C. would take this into account.''
 Mr. Ripp, who lives in Wilton, Conn., left Time Warner in 2004, and had a short run as president of Dendrite International, a pharmaceutical marketing company, before retiring. His professional life is in limbo as he awaits the denouement of the case.
 ''When he went to AOL, everyone told me he was the one exposing things that smelled bad,'' said Walter Isaacson, the former managing editor of Time magazine and chief executive of CNN, who has known and worked with Mr. Ripp for years. ''This is a real shame. He didn't want to go there. He could have walked with a big check.''
 Time Warner and the executives who effected the disastrous merger with AOL have largely moved on. The company itself settled with the S.E.C. in 2005 for $300 million. Mr. Levin, the former chief executive of Time Warner, runs a spiritual retreat in California. Stephen M. Case, the founder of AOL, now has an online health care business. 
 But Mr. Ripp, 56, remains a captive of the merger, despite having had no role in it. 
 ''I called him after I saw the newspaper stories and said how shocked I was and asked if there was anything I could do,'' said Mr. Logan. ''I know Joe was always the person people depended on to know what was going on and to do the right thing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephen M. Case, left, of AOL, and Gerald M. Levin, of Time Warner, before announcing a deal to merge. (ILLUSTRATION BY THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
Joseph A. Ripp helped uncover fraudulent transactions between AOL and two partners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AOL, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Charles E. Johnson Jr., founder of PurchasePro, was convicted of fraud last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SERBAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHISTLEBLOWERS (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LITIGATION (75%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (71%); SCANDALS (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); CRIMINAL FINES (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (93%); AOL INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: STEVE CASE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



219 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2500 words

HEADLINE: Local Officials Adopt New, Harder Tactics On Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: MILTON, Fla. 

 BODY:
Three months after the local police inspected more than a dozen businesses searching for illegal immigrants using stolen Social Security numbers, this community in the Florida Panhandle has become more law-abiding, emptier and whiter. 
 Many of the Hispanic immigrants who came in 2004 to help rebuild after Hurricane Ivan have either fled or gone into hiding. Churches with services in Spanish are half-empty. Businesses are struggling to find workers. And for Hispanic citizens with roots here -- the foremen and entrepreneurs who received visits from the police -- the losses are especially profound. 
 ''It was very hard because the community is very small, and to see people who came to eat here all the time then come and close the business,'' said Geronimo Barragan, who owns two branches of La Hacienda, Mexican restaurants where the police arrested 10 employees. 
 ''I don't blame them,'' Mr. Barragan added. ''It's just that it hurts.'' 
 Sheriff Wendell Hall of Santa Rosa County, who led the effort, said the arrests were for violations of state identity theft laws. But he also seemed proud to have found a way around rules allowing only the federal government to enforce immigration laws. In his office, the sheriff displayed a framed editorial cartoon that showed Daniel Boone admiring his arrest of at least 27 illegal workers. 
 His approach is increasingly common. Last month, 260 illegal immigrants in Iowa were sentenced to five months in prison for violations of federal identity theft laws.
 At the same time, in the last year, local police departments from coast to coast have rounded up hundreds of immigrants for nonviolent, often minor, crimes, like fishing without a license in Georgia, with the end result being deportation. 
 In some cases, the police received training and a measure of jurisdiction from the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement, under a program that lets officers investigate and detain people they suspect to be illegal immigrants.
 But with local demand for tougher immigration enforcement growing, 95 departments are waiting to join the 47 in the program. And in a number of places, including Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas, police officers or entire departments are choosing to tackle the issue on their own.
 State lawmakers, in response to Congressional inaction on immigration law, are giving local authorities a wider berth. In 2007, 1,562 bills related to illegal immigration were introduced nationwide and 240 were enacted in 46 states, triple the number that passed in 2006, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. A new law in Mississippi makes it a felony for an illegal immigrant to hold a job. In Oklahoma, sheltering or transporting illegal immigrants is also a felony.
 It remains unclear how the new laws will be enforced. Yet at the very least, say both advocates and critics, they are likely to lead to more of what occurred here: more local police officers demanding immigrants' documents; more arrests for identity theft; more accusations of racial profiling; and more movement of immigrants, with some fleeing and others being sent to jail. 
 ''It is a way to address illegal immigration without calling it that,'' said Jessica Vaughan, a senior policy analyst at the Center for Immigration Studies, which supports intensified local enforcement. She added, ''They don't just have to sit and wait for Washington.''
 Community Complaints
 Police officers here in a handful of Gulf Coast counties from Pensacola to Tallahassee said they started hearing complaints about illegal immigrants last year. With the national debate raging and the local economy sagging, many residents began to question whether illegal immigrants were taking Americans' jobs. 
 It did not show up in statistics -- the unemployment rate in Santa Rosa County was 3.6 percent in 2007, below state and national averages -- so the arguments focused in part on unfair competition. 
 Donna Tucker, executive director of the Santa Rosa County Chamber of Commerce, said illegal immigration ''creates havoc within the system'' because businesses that used illegal labor often did not pay into workers' compensation funds and paid workers less.
 ''Those businesses can survive a lot longer than the ones that are trying to do things right,'' Ms. Tucker said. 
 Some of the frustrations also veered into prejudice. 
 George S. Collins, an inspector in charge of the illegal trafficking task force in Okaloosa County, said many people wanted to know ''why we weren't going to Wal-Mart and rounding up the Mexicans'' -- a comment Mr. Collins said was racist and offensive. 
 Usually though, the complaints were cultural and legal. 
 Interviews with more than 25 residents and police officers suggest that the views of Harry T. Buckles, 68, a retired Navy corpsman, are common. Outside his home in Gulf Breeze, Mr. Buckles said the main problem with today's Hispanic immigrants was that they did not assimilate. 
 Even after hundreds flowed in to rebuild Santa Rosa County, Mr. Buckles said: ''They didn't become part of the community. They didn't speak the language.''
 Echoing the comments of others, he said he became irritated when he heard Spanish at the Winn-Dixie and saw a line of immigrants sending money home at the Western Union. Mr. Buckles said he feared his community would lose its character and become like Miami, with its foreign-born majority and common use of Spanish. 
 ''We see things nationwide and we know that we could be overwhelmed,'' he said. 
 In fact, only about 3 percent of the population of Santa Rosa County is Hispanic, according to census figures compiled in 2006. As a proportion of its population, the Hispanic community here is less than half the size of what is in Omaha or Des Moines -- mostly white cities where the Hispanic population is still below the national average. 
 Santa Rosa is hardly the only place to use a tough approach against a small immigrant population. In Mississippi, where strict laws on false documentation recently passed, only about 1.7 percent of the state's 2.9 million people were born abroad and more than half of them are in the United States legally, according to estimates from the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors tightening restrictions on immigration. 
 But here, the result is a divide often marked by a lack of in-depth interaction. 
 On one side are longtime residents like Sheriff Hall, who said immigrant laborers were not involved in fixing his office or home after the hurricanes, and Mr. Buckles, who said his relationship with Hispanics was based mainly on seeing them at stores or construction sites. 
 On the other side are a smaller number of immigrants and employers who use immigrant labor. 
 Some of the immigrants are newly arrived, sticking mostly to themselves. But the group also includes Antonio Tejeda, 38, a roofer and naturalized American citizen from Mexico who wears an N.F.L. jersey to church and speaks English with a slight drawl; and Ruben Barragan, 19, one of the workers arrested in one of the La Hacienda restaurant raids who, though illegal, spoke English and called his infant son Eric because he wanted him to have an American name. 
 When told about such men, Mr. Buckles said perhaps the government could find ways to create exceptions. But he was not convinced they deserved to stay. 
 ''They got here illegally,'' Mr. Buckles said. ''They broke the law as soon as they came.''
 The Raids
 The half-dozen officers involved in the Santa Rosa operations did not announce their arrival. They detained 13 workers at Panhandle Growers. At the two branches of La Hacienda the police quietly detained 10 workers without resistance. And at Emerald Coast Interiors, a boat-cushion factory, the police arrested a handful more. 
 Sheriff Hall said that his department received tips that led him to all the locations he visited and that he was responding to a steep rise in complaints about illegal immigration. He said he had been frustrated a year ago by a lack of response from Immigration and Customs Enforcement. And this time, customs officials said, he did not contact the agency for input before forming a multicounty task force that led to the February operation. 
 Sheriff Hall said his men were focused on identity theft and did not need special training because ''it's the same thing we do every day.'' He insisted that the officers treated everyone fairly. Unlike Bay County officers, who surrounded construction sites last year and arrested immigrants who ran, ''we didn't chase anyone,'' he said. 
 And at many locations witnesses said the police treated all workers equally. 
 Managers at the restaurants Okki, El Rodeo, China Sea and La Hacienda said police officers checked all employees' documents, regardless of their ethnicity. 
 But other business owners, employees and residents said the police focused disproportionately on Hispanics or the foreign born and seemed determined to scare immigrants out of the area. In many cases, employers said, the officers did not even mention identity theft, narrowing their scope to immigrants. 
 ''They were targeting all the places with Hispanic workers,'' said Elvin Garcia, 26, a waiter at El Rodeo. 
 At Red Barn Barbecue, witnesses said that skin color clearly influenced police procedure. When several officers visited and saw no one who was Hispanic in the kitchen, they moved on. ''We offered to give them records, and they said, 'No, it's not necessary,' '' said Randy Brochu, whose family owns the business.
 Meanwhile, at Emerald Coast Interiors, three employees -- one black, one white, one Hispanic -- independently said the police did, in fact, chase a handful of Hispanic employees who ran. Three women, they said, were caught in a ditch behind the main building. 
 Luis Ramirez, the plant's operations manager, said the officers asked to see documentation only for the workers who fled. ''It was racial profiling,'' Mr. Ramirez said. 
 His company has not filed a lawsuit, so his accusations have not been tested. But Florida courts have repeatedly held that flight alone is not enough to justify a suspicion of criminal activity or arrest. In Bay County, officials said they tried to avoid chasing people now because prosecutors have warned that it undermines their cases. 
 Even without a chase, immigrant advocates say that local efforts to track down illegal immigrants undermine community safety by scaring immigrants from reporting violent crimes. 
 ''It's a dangerous route to take,'' said David Urias, a staff lawyer with the Mexican American Legal Defense Fund, which sued Otero County in New Mexico this year after the police raided Hispanics' homes for minor violations like an unleashed dog. ''What you're going to see,'' Mr. Urias said, ''is more people pushed into the shadows.'' 
 The Aftermath
 Indeed, three months after the sweeps, nearly everyone agrees that the fabric of this community has changed. Hundreds of Hispanic families, both legal and illegal, seem to have disappeared.
 John Davy, a co-owner of Panhandle Growers, said some employers ''treated their guys humanely'' by helping them flee to other areas. ''What we're victims of is a system that's broken,'' he said.
 Many residents said they felt torn between competing loyalties to compassion and the law. 
 ''On one hand, I'm sitting here thinking when Ivan was here, you could not get enough people to do the thing that needed to get done,'' said Mrs. Tucker at the Chamber of Commerce. ''And these illegal aliens, people welcomed them with open arms because they were working hard, they were helping our community. But from a chamber standpoint, you're operating on the side of the law. It's a hard thing.''
 In the immigrant community, fears now cloud the most basic routines. Many Hispanics said they avoided being seen or heard speaking Spanish in Wal-Mart, even if they live here legally. Others detailed their habit of meticulously checking their cars' headlights, blinkers and registration to avoid being pulled over. 
 The message many Hispanics have taken from the raids is simple. ''We're Mexican -- they don't want us here,'' said Erika Barragan, 20, whose husband, Ruben, came here illegally roughly six years ago and was one of 23 people scheduled to be deported after the February raids. She said she would go back to Mexico this summer. 
 Her husband's employers, Geronimo Barragan (no relation) and his wife, Guilla, are trying to remain positive. 
 They are citizens and parents of four American-born children, ages 2 to 16. They have lived in Santa Rosa County for more than a decade, founding a Baptist church here and working 16-hour days, six days a week to build two restaurants known for their affordable food and Christian atmosphere, which extends to a ban on alcohol. 
 They said the raids came as a shock.
 ''We love the community, and we always tried to do our best,'' Mr. Barragan said. 
 Mrs. Barragan put it more bluntly. ''This,'' she said, ''is like our promised land.'' 
 The Barragans said they did not know their workers were illegal because they provided Social Security numbers and other information that was required. Like most employers, they asked for nothing more. 
 They have not publicly opposed the sheriff's actions, and in their effort to move on, they have distanced themselves from his critics. Mr. Barragan even visited Sheriff Hall at his office to tell him he had no hard feelings and would do everything he could to comply in the future. 
 And yet, the cost has been significant. Both of the restaurants were closed for more than two months. Only one has recently reopened.
 Unable to find people in the area who can cook Mexican food, Mr. Barragan, 41, has been scouring the nation, recruiting in Houston, Chicago and Baton Rouge. He has yet to find all the workers he needs, relying on a handful of new hires with work visas that expire in November. He said he wished that Congress could find a way to bring more foreign workers to America legally.
 For Mrs. Barragan, 39, a warm, thin woman with hair to her waist, the consequences have been more personal. On a recent Wednesday night, her church's prayer service was half-empty. Many of her friends have left. And many of the employees that her family mentored in the ways of America are gone, taken away by the police. 
 ''That's what had the most effect on our lives,'' Mrs. Barragan said, speaking in Spanish so she could be more specific. ''Not closing La Hacienda, or 'we're not going to make money,' or 'how are we going to pay our bills?' I personally didn't think about that. It hurt me more to see them there -- handcuffed. The way they went out.'' 
 Her husband agreed, explaining between bouts of tears that some of the deported workers' families had become victims of more violent crime. ''One of them has a small daughter and someone robbed their house while he was in jail,'' Mr. Barragan said. ''Twice.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Erika Barragan, 20, whose husband was arrested. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A1)
LOCAL AUTHORITY: Sheriff Wendell Hall of Santa Rosa County, Fla., said he was enforcing state identity theft laws. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY GIBERSON/PENSACOLA NEWS JOURNAL) (pg. A16)
GERONIMO BARRAGAN: The owner of two branches of La Hacienda, Mexican restaurants where the police arrested 10 employees
JOHN DAVY: A co-owner of Panhandle Growers, where 13 workers were detained
 ERIKA BARRAGAN: The wife of one of 23 people scheduled to be deported after police raids. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAN ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A16) MAP (pg. A16) Map of Milton in Florida. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ARRESTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); IDENTITY THEFT (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); FELONIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); PRISONS (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); SENTENCING (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); HURRICANES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENSACOLA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



220 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Politics and Hunger

 BODY:
One might expect that food riots in Egypt and Haiti would convince the world's wealthy nations of the need to do more to feed the world's poorest. If not, maybe the threat of 100 million more people falling into poverty due to soaring food prices would spur them to help. 
 Yet at last week's United Nations food summit, the world's more-developed nations proved, once again, that domestic politics trumps both humanitarian concerns and sound strategic calculations. 
 Over the past year, the prices of grains and vegetable oils have nearly doubled. Rice has jumped by about half. The causes include soaring energy costs, drought in big agricultural producers, like Australia, and rising demand by a burgeoning middle class in China and India. But misguided mandates and subsidies in the United States and Europe to produce energy from crops are also playing an important role.
 The International Monetary Fund estimated that biofuels -- mainly American corn ethanol -- accounted for almost half the growth in worldwide demand for major food crops last year. About a third of this country's corn crop will go to ethanol this year. Yet at the summit meeting in Rome, the Bush administration insisted that ethanol is playing a very small role in rising food prices and resisted calls to limit the drive to convert food into fuel. The United States wasn't alone. 
 Brazil, which has an enormous sugar-based ethanol industry, also rejected demands to curb biofuel production. Argentina objected to calls to end export taxes that it and other countries have erected to slow food exports. The United States and Europe also rejected suggestions that their farm subsidies should be blamed for depressing agricultural investment in poor countries.
 Today, Africa has less large-scale commercial agriculture than it had 50 years ago. Productivity has slowed to a crawl in India, Indonesia and China. 
 Several countries have pledged more aid in response to the crisis, but not nearly enough. The Bush administration wants to increase food assistance to $5 billion over two years. 
 According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, there are 37 countries in critical need of food assistance. Many need not only food, but also seed and fertilizer to plant this season. 
 According to the U.N. secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, world food production must rise 50 percent by 2030. This will require investments exceeding $15 billion to $20 billion a year in the farm economies of poor countries, including research into robust, high-yielding crops suited to poor regions like sub-Saharan Africa. 
 After 9/11 the world's richest nations saw the link between hunger, alienation and terrorism. They offered a trade deal to eliminate the agricultural subsidies and tariffs that were pushing farmers in developing countries out of the market and further into poverty. Seven years later the tariffs and subsidies are still there.
 One of the most useful things industrialized countries could do would be to deliver on their promise and end the fat subsidies they provide their farmers no matter how high prices go. These subsidies depressed food prices for years and discouraged investment in agriculture across much of the developing world. 
 In a world of growing demand and far too much hunger, they have no justification at all. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (91%); ETHANOL (91%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BIOMASS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (75%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); CORN FARMING (74%); RIOTS (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); FERTILIZERS (69%); TERRORISM (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (92%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); EGYPT (92%); AFRICA (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



221 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Sag Takes Issue With Rival Unions Contract

BYLINE: Compiled by STEVEN McELROY

 BODY:
The leaders of the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (AFTRA), which represents 70,000 actors, ratified a tentative prime-time television contract with Hollywood's major studios on Saturday, The Associated Press reported. The three-year pact includes more money for Internet work. A team of negotiators reached an agreement with studios, represented by the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, last month, and Saturday's vote was the final step before a full membership vote. 
Meanwhile the leadership of the Screen Actors Guild, which represents about 120,000 members and is stuck in its own talks with producers over a contract that expires June 30, has called the other union's agreement ''inadequate'' and has decided to start a campaign against the AFTRA contract, Variety reported. Since about 44,000 actors are members of both unions, a lack of support for the AFTRA deal -- something SAG leaders are encouraging -- could help SAG's attempt to win a better deal. SAG will hold a rally at its Los Angeles headquarters on Monday, and a town hall meeting is planned for Wednesday. The Writers Guild of America, which was supported by SAG during its recent strike, has urged its members to attend the rally. The AFTRA board said in a statement that it would ''view any attempt by SAG or its leadership to undermine or interfere with our ratification process as a violation of both the law and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Constitution.'' ... The Milken Institute, an economic research organization, has released a report that found the three-month Writers Guild of America strike that ended in February resulted in a loss of more than $2 billion, pushing California into a recession and costing 37,700 jobs, Reuters reported.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

COMPANY: MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION & RADIO ARTISTS (84%); SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (57%); AFL-CIO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



222 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MEYERSON, MONROE

 BODY:
 MEYERSON--Monroe. Our friend Monroe was a remarkable man. He had great courage and an indomitable spirit. He was loved, admired and respected by all his friends and family. Our love and deepest sympathy to Leila and all their family. 
Carol and Mel MEYERSON--Monroe, above all you were the most giving, caring and bravest of all men. We will miss you forever our sympathies to Leila, David, Cindie, Donald, Stuart and Lisa and the grandchildren. Meryle, Irving, Donald, Faye, Gary, Lester and Andrea MEYERSON--Monroe. The Membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, FL, announces with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend, esteemed member and former governor, Monroe Meyerson on June 6, 2008, and extends our sincerest condolences to his wife Leila and their family. Robert M. Merson, President Boca Rio Golf Club MEYERSON--Monroe R., born August 23, 1930, to Harry and Beatrice Meyerson in Brooklyn, NY, died June 6, 2008, in Boca Raton, FL. He leaves behind his beloved wife of 53 Years, Leila Mann Meyerson, his children, Cindie (Dr. Donald) Kastenbaum, David Meyerson, and Stuart (Lisa) Meyerson, and five wonderful grandchildren: Julie, Harry, Jessica, Samuel and Benjamin. He attended Poly Prep Day School where he achieved a football scholarship to the University of NC/Chapel Hill. He graduated from New York University with a degree in engineering and economics and later obtained an MBA from the Trinity School at NYU. As a graduate of ROTC, he became a pilot in the Air Force and was honorably discharged in 1955. He began his career as project manager at Centrig Industries, a small familyoperated construction company in NYC in 1956, and during his 35 year tenure as its Chairman and CEO, grew the company into an internationally recognized leader in heavy industrial construction and a world leader in the installation of newspaper presses, including The New York Times, Chicago Tribune, Miami Herald, San Fransisco Chronicle, Charlotte Observer, and the Washingon Post. As a result of having been a dialysis patient in 1992, Mr. Meyerson founded the Dialysis Centers of America (DCA) in 1995 with a strong commitment to improving the quality of care, treatment and outcomes for dialysis patients. Within three years, DCA grew from a single location to the largest kidney dialysis treatment in the Midwest. DCA'a greatest accomplishment was in the development of renal care informatics which became the ''golden rule'' adopted by the dialysis industry. In 1998, Mr. Meyerson founded the Radiology Corporation of America (RCOA), an innovator and early adopter of Positron Emission Tomography (PET), a new molecular imaging technology that improved the diagnosis and treatment of many diseases, including the early detection of cancer and Alzheimer's Disease. Mr. Meyerson was also instrumental in founding the Institute of Molecular Technology, a trade association which educated the medical community about the benefits of PET technology which led to the acceptance of reimbursement protocols under Medicare. As a result of his daughter's juvenile diabetes in 1967, Mr. Meyerson was a co-founder and the inspiration for the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation (JDF), both the New York chapter and the national organization, where he served as a Board member for many years. In addition, Mr. Meyerson was aformer Director of Gatekeeper Solutions, the Whitney Art Museum, Dance Theater of Harlem, Boca Rio Country Club, and a member of Chief Executives Organization, World Presidents' Organization and Young Presidents' Organization. He was a renaissance man involved in Arts and Theatre and his philanthropic endeavors included support of Technion University, Kravis Center for the Performing Arts, Broward Center for the Performing Arts, University of Minnesota, American Parkinson's Disease Foundation, among many others. Mr. Meyerson was an avid art collector of photorealism and supported many young artists. He generously donated art to both the St. Louis Art Museum and the Whitney Museum Of Art. Services will be held Tuesday, June 10th, 2008, 11:45am at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, the family requests contributions be made to M.D. Anderson Cancer Research Center, Houston, TX, and the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); DIALYSIS (89%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (85%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (84%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (84%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (70%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); AIR FORCES (69%); DIALYSIS CENTERS (66%); KIDNEY DISEASE (66%); CANCER (66%); RADIOLOGY (65%); GENETIC & MOLECULAR MEDICINE (65%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (63%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (61%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



223 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Laura Bush's Afghanistan Visit Highlights U.S. Support

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
Laura Bush flew by helicopter deep into central Afghanistan on Sunday on a one-day visit to highlight the United States' continued commitment to the country and to President Hamid Karzai, ahead of an international donors conference this week in Paris. 
 Her visit comes as concern has been growing, particularly in Europe and at the United Nations, that Mr. Karzai might not be up to the task of addressing Afghanistan's many economic and political problems. 
 The occasion was marred, too, by continuing violence around the country. Eleven police officers were killed in an ambush south of the capital, and a local journalist was found shot dead in southern Helmand Province after he was abducted by gunmen from his house on Saturday. Also in Helmand Province on Sunday, three British soldiers were killed and a fourth was wounded by a suicide bomber, Reuters reported.
 As on her two previous visits to Afghanistan, Mrs. Bush emphasized her support for women's development and educational and training projects. She flew to Bamian, one of the country's poorest provinces, which is overseen by Afghanistan's only female governor, Habiba Sarabi, a former minister of women's affairs. 
 Bamian suffered some of the worst massacres and devastation under the Taliban, including the destruction of the two colossal Buddhas just months before the United States intervention in Afghanistan in 2001. Today, however, it is one of the most peaceful and secure places in the country.
 Mrs. Bush's visit was a demonstration of support for Mr. Karzai and his government as it prepared to ask for about $50 billion in pledges of assistance from international donors at the conference this week. Mrs. Bush said she would attend the conference. 
 In Kabul she met with Mr. Karzai as well as Afghan teachers in training and students, and she announced $80 million for two American government programs in education. The United States Agency for International Development will spend $40 million on scholarships and on developing the campus of the American University of Afghanistan, and it will spend $40 million on a national literacy program over the next five years, she said at a brief appearance with Mr. Karzai in the gardens of the presidential palace. 
 Western donors are expected to meet Afghanistan's most urgent priorities in agriculture, energy, security and education, but a number of them are demanding that the conference also be used for a critical review of the government's performance, in particular its failure to curb rampant corruption.
 Mr. Karzai promised that his government would go to Paris with a ''very realistic evaluation of the last six years, of our achievements, of our progress and our problems,'' including corruption. 
 He added that he was confident of continued international support. ''We'll come back with some significant assistance from the international community to the Afghan people,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Laura Bush watched a traditional New Zealand arrival dance on Sunday at a base controlled by that country in Afghanistan. Her trip came as concerns grew over the Afghan president's ability to address the country's economic and political problems. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY DOWNING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); TALIBAN (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); WOMEN (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (75%); SHOOTINGS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); WOMEN'S AFFAIRS (55%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



224 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Uncertainty As Tribune Prepares To Retrench

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Is Sam Zell right about the newspaper business?
 Last week, Mr. Zell, chairman and chief executive of the Tribune Company, and Randy Michaels, the chief operating officer, announced a set of deep cuts, saying that shrinking revenue left them no choice. They said they would trim 500 pages of news each week from the company's dozen papers, including The Chicago Tribune and The Los Angeles Times. Their aim is a paper with pages -- excluding classified advertising and special ad sections -- split 50-50 between news content and ads.
 Journalists may recoil, but is a thinner, flashier, more local newspaper, with a smaller newsroom staff, the best financial model for an industry that is enduring a painful contraction with no end in sight?
 Conversations with analysts and executives yielded an impassioned argument on that subject -- it is a question they have asked themselves many times -- but no consensus. The one thing everyone seems to agree on is this: Newspapers around the United States have tried a lot of approaches, newsy to fluffy, parochial to international, voluminous to sparse -- and all are in trouble. 
 Mr. Zell's plan is an accelerated version of what many newspaper companies are already undertaking in the hope of staving off the kind of huge dislocation that occurred in other industries, like the steel business in the 1980s or the domestic automobile business today. In those cases, the pressure came from legacy costs, labor and foreign competition. In the newspaper business, which struggles with those costs as well, the biggest threat is the migration of advertisers and readers to the Internet. 
 At Tribune's largest paper, The Los Angeles Times, Mr. Zell's plan would mean cutting the news content by 82 pages weekly -- more than the amount many small papers produce. Smaller reductions could be expected at the company's other papers, including The Baltimore Sun, The Orlando Sentinel and The Hartford Courant.
 In the short run, Tribune's approach is likely to save money, on personnel and newsprint. Newsroom staffs -- already much smaller than they were a few years ago -- will also be cut, though no head counts were given. Mr. Michaels revealed that the company had analyzed the volume of material produced by each reporter, and the per capita production at each paper; it concluded that many people were not pulling their weight and would hardly be missed.
 ''Management has to at least investigate which parts of the cost structure can be scaled back,'' said Mike Simonton, senior director at Fitch Ratings in Chicago. And, he added, most readers would hardly notice a modest decline in the volume of news, or if staff-written articles were replaced by those from wire services like The Associated Press or Reuters.
 But watering down the product hurts staff morale, he said, and if taken too far, ''could accelerate the migration of readers to the Web or other sources of news.''
 John Morton, an independent newspaper analyst, thinks that tipping point has already arrived at many papers.
 ''To the extent you diminish your product, I think you diminish your success, in print or online,'' he said. ''In the long run, it's going to be harmful to newspapers' brand names, which is the strongest thing they've got.''
 As newspapers suffer through steep losses in circulation and advertising, Mr. Morton says many of them have accelerated the process by offering readers less, trying to cut costs and preserve unrealistic profit margins. ''It's a strategy, basically, of gradually closing down,'' he said.
 But Allen H. Neuharth, former chairman and chief executive of the Gannett Company, thinks offering a thinner newspaper, produced by fewer people, can make a lot of sense.
 ''Most readers of newspapers really only consume a small fraction of what the newspaper produces,'' he said. ''Can you give them the stuff they want, even though there's less of it over all? I think you can.''
 Such changes ought to move gradually, if possible, he said, to be less of a shock to readers. ''But I think at some point in time when any business is in trouble, you have to substitute smart management for money, and I think that's what we're going through,'' he said.
 Mr. Neuharth, of course, is the founder of USA Today, which pioneered a newspaper style -- now much copied -- that Mr. Zell seems to have in mind. Mr. Zell said that in addition to more focus on local news, all of Tribune's papers would have more graphics, charts and other easily digested elements that surveys show readers like.
 John Puchalla, vice president and senior analyst at Moody's Investors Service, said it was important to note that Tribune is talking about ''refocusing the content of the paper,'' not just shrinking. ''They're saying, 'We're not cutting things that people want to read, we're cutting things that aren't driving the readership,' '' he said.
 Even so, it is not clear what large-scale cuts in content ''might do to readership and, therefore, advertising,'' he said. Of Tribune, Mr. Puchalla said, ''One of the things that's been lacking in the industry is experimentation with different strategies, so you have to give them credit for that.''
 As newspapers struggle to preserve circulation while cutting costs, the paradox is that in print and online, more people are reading them than ever before. But that audience generates less revenue as print newspapers lose ad sales to the Internet, where advertising is much cheaper.
 Mr. Zell and Mr. Michaels did not address what content would be cut, but Mr. Zell has said before that he disagrees with the heavy allocation of resources to national and international news. Many newspapers have concluded that when a mouse click can collect news of Washington or Baghdad or Beijing from a multitude of sources, local news is their only real hold on readers.
 The largest and most prestigious papers like The Los Angeles Times have long prided themselves on covering the nation and the world, and some executives in the industry say that the material with the least mass appeal -- whether foreign news or arts coverage -- is essential to their most devoted readers, and to affluent readers who are valued by advertisers.
 Tribune executives did not address whether their new approach would mean heavier reliance on wire services like The Associated Press and Reuters. They were created specifically to allow newspapers to offer a far greater range of material, from far more places in the world, than their own staffs could possibly produce.
 But a newspaper dominated by wire articles would offer little that was original -- and little temptation to a reader who could just as easily go to Google or Yahoo for news.
 And even those experts who criticize the company's strategy say that it has no good alternatives. Tribune's $12.8 billion debt load, most of it from the transaction to go private that gave Mr. Zell control of the company in December, leaves it with less room to maneuver than most of its competitors.
 Even if the overhaul of Tribune's papers stems the migration of print readers and saves some money, ''The biggest problem still is the loss of ad sales,'' said Mr. Simonton, of Fitch. ''I think there's very little evidence that any of these strategies and changes will change that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); NEWSPRINT (77%); WORKPLACE MORALE (69%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (93%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



225 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2329 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 9, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 ONCE A BOTTLE IN NAPLES,
 Now Garbage in Hamburg
 Southern Italy has run out of places to put its trash, so a 56-car train arrives in Hamburg every day bearing 700 tons of Naples' garbage. Italy's problem has echoes in all of Europe, where Naples looks increasingly like a foul-smelling version of an untenable past, and Hamburg its future. PAGE A6 
 GLOBAL GIANTS IN RUSSIA TO STAY
 With the leaders of BP, Royal Dutch Shell, Chevron, Exxon Mobil, ConocoPhillips, Total, Schlumberger and Dow Chemical at a conference with the chairman of the Russian energy giant Gazprom and the president of the Russian oil company Lukoil, the busy executives of the global energy industry were sending a powerful message: big Western businesses are in Russia to stay. PAGE A10 
 MAN KILLS 7 ON TOKYO STREET
 A 25 year-old man went on a killing rampage in a popular shopping street in central Tokyo, plowing his truck into a crowd of pedestrians before stabbing passers-by with a knife. Seven people died and 11 were injured. The killings stunned a country that has long enjoyed low crime rates but where a series of random stabbings have recently occurred. PAGE A6 
 HEAVY FIGHTING IN SOMALIA KILLS 20
 More than 20 people were killed and 80 wounded in especially heavy fighting in Mogadishu, Somalia's war-ravaged capital, where government troops face a deepening insurgency. The fighting was the latest setback in a country that has been plagued by civil war, drought, spiraling inflation and massive displacement -- often at the same time. PAGE A12 
 CHaVEZ ASKS FARC TO END STRUGGLE
 President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela urged FARC, Colombia's largest guerrilla group, to end its four-decade struggle to overthrow Colombia's government. The move is a surprising shift in policy; only months ago he called for the rebels to be recognized as a legitimate insurgent force. The shift in stance comes as Colombia's government accused Venezeula of attempting to provide arms and financing to the FARC -- claims that if true could be bring sanctions against Venezuela from the European Union and United States. PAGE A10 
 EFFORTS ON IRAN AND IRAQ CONFLICT
 Iraq's prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, above left, met with the president of Iran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, above right, and sought to soothe Iranian opposition to a long-term American military presence in Iraq by offering assurances in Tehran that American bases will not be used to attack Iran. ''We will not allow Iraq to become a platform for harming the security of Iran and neighbors,'' Mr. Maliki said. PAGE A13 
 First Lady Visits Afghanistan A13 
 NATIONAL
 A Town Tears Down a House,
 Trying to Move On
 The house on 201 North Hazendell Avenue in Crandon, Wis., was the scene of a shooting last October in which seven young people were killed. The house has become a symbol of the tragedy that has haunted the town of 2,000 people, who have made preparations for its cathartic demolition and cleanup. ''For $10 a month I wouldn't live there,'' the local district attorney said. Dan Barry, This Land. PAGE A14
 THE CLINTONS, RECONSIDERED
 The already complicated legacy of Bill and Hillary Clinton stands to become only more so following Mrs. Clinton's unsuccessful bid for the White House, as their missteps during the campaign tarnished their reputations both as winners and brilliant political tacticians. And a victory in the general election by Senator Barack Obama could end the era in which the Clintons have been the dominant force in the Democratic Party. ''They will no longer be leaders of the party, and their role, especially his, will be much diminished,'' one historian said. PAGE A18 
 AN UGLY, HIGH-PROFILE CAMPAIGN
 Despite being the capital of California, Sacramento has a hard-to-shake reputation as a sleepy cow town, so its mayoral race was mostly ignored. But that was before Kevin Johnson, a former star in the N.B.A., threw his hat in the ring. Sports celebrities endorsed Mr. Johnson. Suddenly the race was receiving a lot of attention -- just in time for it to get really ugly. PAGE A14 
 A RACE WITH FAMILIAR THEMES
 Both Senators Barack Obama and John McCain arrived as the nominees of their respective parties in part by diverging from the traditional partisan mold. John Harwood says that's likely to change now, and those unorthodox inclinations will give way to a broad clash of familiar product lines: Republican conservatism and Democratic liberalism. PAGE A18 
 REMEMBERING A MUSIC LEGEND
 Bo Diddley's funeral was a scene that was part funeral, part celebration and part American music lesson, and the floral arrangements were so vast that the pulpit was nearly obscured. ''He was the rock that the roll is built on,'' said a bandmate. PAGE B6 
 BUSINESS
 WHERE WALTER CRONKITE ONCE SAT, 
 Shirtless Men Now Wrestle
 Once upon a television set, a viewer went to the three major networks, ABC, CBS and NBC, for high-quality, high-brow entertainment and news and to cable for whatever else. But that paradigm is being flipped on its head, writes David Carr in his column, The Media Equation. PAGE C1
 WAL-MART ENTERS MUSIC BUSINESS
 Wal-Mart is many thing to many people: A grocery store, an electronics outlet, a blight that is pushing mom-and-pop stores out of business. But a record label? As once-powerful labels decline because of the migration to digital downloads, musicians are scrambling to connect with fans, and Wal-Mart is using exclusive deals to assume a new role: hit maker. PAGE C1 
 BOOKS ON HOUSETROUBLES FLOURISH
 The end of the housing boom has produced another boom of sorts. Publishing houses are filling bookstores with tomes for those who stumbled in the housing game and for those who may benefit from the foreclosure crisis. PAGE C4 
 SUPERCOMPUTER SETS SPEED RECORD
 The four-minute mile of supercomputing has been achieved. A $133 million supercomputer called Roadrunner, built by engineers and scientists at I.B.M. and Los Alamos National Laboratory, based in Los Alamos, N.M., has reached a long-sought-after milestone by processing more than 1.026 quadrillion calculations per second. It will be used principally to solve secret military problems, but before it is placed in a classified environment, it will also be used to explore scientific problems like climate change. PAGE C1
 METRO
 DOMESTIC WORKERS MEET
 To Advocate for Better Rights
 About 100 women attended the first National Domestic Workers Congress in Manhattan, four days of workshops, meetings and a rally to demand employee rights. Nearly all of those in attendance were immigrants, and they said they hoped to rally laborers who are particularly difficult to organize and susceptible to workplace exploitation. ''The power dynamics are different,'' one participant said. ''If you try to negotiate, you're out.'' PAGE B3 
 OVERSTAYING THE LAST CALL
 Kyle Hausmann, a mild-mannered Brooklyn paralegal, is now one of those people at the center of an anecdote relayed to and by thousands of New Yorkers. After a night at a bar where he had a little too much to drink, he headed into the restroom and lost track of time. When he re-emerged, the bar was closed and he was locked in. ''My working theory was that I had gone down a wormhole,'' he said. ''Someone pointed out that perhaps I had gone to Narnia. But I would've remembered Narnia. So it must've been a wormhole.'' PAGE B1 
 THRILLS VERSUS SHOPPING
 Much of the deliberate small-scale seediness at Coney Island was the brainchild of Dick Zigun. He was willing to see much of that seediness wiped away as part of the area's redevelopment, but has since stepped down from the board overseeing it after feeling that their plan will mean a generic Coney Island overrun by stores like Niketown and F.A.O. Schwartz. Susan Dominus, Big City. PAGE B1 
 OBITUARIES
 DINO RISI, 91
 An Italian director who helmed more than 80 movies, documentaries and television shows, he helped establish a new style that become internationally known as commedia all'italiana. Mr. Risi directed some of the sharpest and most widely seen comedies of the postwar era, including searing satires about the newfound prosperity of his countrymen during the Italian ''economic miracle'' of the 1950s and '60s. PAGE B6 
 RANDOLPH M. CHASE JR., 79
 One of the first tenured black members of the New York University medical school faculty, he was an infectious disease expert who studied the harmful effects of blood-borne bacteria on grafted tissue -- work that would shed light on heart-valve surgery and the immunological rejection of organ transplants. PAGE B6 
 SPORTS
 TESTIMONY ON STEROIDS
 In Baseball Is Tested
 Baseball officials appeared before a Congressional committee in 2005 and presented statistics that showed that baseball's testing program for performance-enhancing drugs was having a substantial impact. But whether Commissioner Bud Selig and other baseball officials presented an accurate picture of how the testing had been conducted has come into question, with the Congressional committee's chairman planning to send letters to Selig to express the panel's displeasure. PAGE D1 
 IN THE STARS' FOOTSTEPS
 Bill Pennington, above, was a volunteer at the L.P.G.A. Championship and got to see the best golfers play up close. The biggest difference between a round of play with, say, Annika Sorenstam and Seon Hwa Lee compared to a round of play with your buddies? He said it's how courteous they are, and how serene in their approaches. But that's probably because they're so good. PAGE D5 
 A DAY FOR SECOND-GUESSING
 After Big Brown's surprising last-place finish in the Belmont Stakes, it seems everyone is trying to figure out what went wrong. Did Big Brown lose because he hadn't received his usual shot of an anabolic steroid? Did his jockey wrangle him too hard early? They poked and prodded the horse after the race, and came up with nothing. ''All we can do is chalk this up as a mystery and regroup,'' his trainer said. PAGE D1 
 ARTS
 SCHOOLHOUSE ROCK,
 Via the Courthouse
 Sandra Day O'Connor, the former Supreme Court justice, feels that civics education in American public schools has become less of a priority in the era of standardized testing. So, in conjuction with two universities, she is developing an interactive Web Site with a civics curriculum for students called Our Courts. ''Knowledge about our government is not handed down through the gene pool,'' she said. ''Every generation has to learn it, and we have some work to do.'' PAGE E7 
 A TERRORIST IN A FLESHPOT
 In the novel ''The Garden of the Last Days,'' a young man is training for an airplane hijacking on 9/11 -- so readers already know the story's grim ending. The terrorist has a chance encounter with a proud stripper, and Janet Maslin says the author passed on the chance to make insights into their clash of values, and instead ''often treats this book as an occasion for easy irony.'' PAGE E1
 ANOTHER SEARCH FOR A STAR
 ''Legally Blonde the Musical: The Search for Elle Woods,'' is the latest entrant into the reality show genre. (Worry not: there's certain to be another next week.) This one concerns with a gaggle of fresh-faced twentysomethings vying for the role of a leading lady for the Broadway musical. Mike Hale says that as callow as the contestants are, their performances of the show's musical numbers are more interesting than watching celebrities learn how to tango. PAGE E6 
 A CAFE FOR CHOREOGRAPHERS
 When it was created more than 70 years ago, the American Dance Festival was envisioned as something of an artists' hangout for choreographers. It was a hard trick to pull off, what with rivalries and the pressures of a craft that requires participation with other people. But the festival keeps plugging on, with decidedly more conviviality and an eclectic mix of dance styles, even if that old rivalry remains. PAGE E6
 USHER AT THE APOLLO
 Usher, the uber-smooth R&B singer, played to a sold-out audience at the Apollo, and in the first few minutes, he managed two splits and a one-armed handstand with dazzling skill. Nate Chinen says that for all his kinetic command, the singer often traded passion for precision, with exacting moves that barely deviated from those in his television appearances. PAGE E5 editorial
 POLITICS AND HUNGER
 One might expect that the threat of 100 million more people falling into poverty due to soaring food prices food would persuade the world's wealthy nations to do more to help the world's poorest. Yet at last week's United Nations food summit, we saw, once again, that domestic politics trumps both humanitarian concerns and sound strategic calculations. PAGE A20 
 AIRBRUSHED BY THE KREMLIN, AGAIN
 Soviet news agencies were expert at removing unwanted comrades from official photographs. Russia's new leaders, who also have little enthusiasm for criticism, are back at it -- on television. PAGE A20 
 HELPING THE KATRINA HOMELESS
 The number of people in New Orleans who are homeless may have doubled since the storm. Officials need to come up with a plan to find them housing quickly. PAGE A20 
 OP-ED
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 Fervent supporters of Senator Barack Obama like to say that putting him in the White House would transform America. With all due respect to the candidate, that gets it backward. Mr. Obama is an impressive speaker who has run a brilliant campaign -- but if he wins in November, it will be because our country has already been transformed. Racial polarization used to be a dominating force in our politics -- but we're now a different, and better, country. PAGE A21
 WILLIAM KRISTOL
 Senator John McCain's message is that he's a leader we can trust, based on a record of many years, and that his character has been tested. Can Mr. McCain get voters to consider his leadership, and get them to ask when Senator Barack Obama has taken similarly courageous stands? Yes he can -- but it's not clear if his campaign will be much help. PAGE A21 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); CIVIL WAR (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); ARMED FORCES (64%); INFLATION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); CRIME RATES (51%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (83%); OAO GAZPROM (71%); OAO LUKOIL (70%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (57%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%); COP (NYSE) (83%); OGZD (LSE) (71%); GAZP (RTS) (71%); LKOH (RTS) (70%); LKOD (LSE) (70%); XOM (NYSE) (57%); DOW (SWX) (57%); DOW (NYSE) (57%); DOW (LSE) (57%); 4850 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (83%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (83%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (83%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (71%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (71%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (86%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (54%); HUGO CHAVEZ (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (75%) IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ITALY (93%); SOMALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (93%); GERMANY (91%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); IRAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



226 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Adds to Complicated Clinton Legacy

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Bill and Hillary Clinton have stirred virulent passions in their nearly two decades in the national spotlight. They have been known as many things, good and bad -- brilliant policy analysts, manipulators of facts and friends, tireless campaigners, skillful political tacticians, monumentally self-absorbed baby boomers. But most of all they were known as winners.
 Until now.
 While the Clintons will almost certainly play a continuing role in national politics, and while Mrs. Clinton could yet emerge as this year's vice-presidential nominee, a major chapter in their vertiginous public biography was closed when Mrs. Clinton conceded the Democratic presidential nomination to Senator Barack Obama on Saturday. The Clintons' complicated legacy is all the more complicated now. 
 Mrs. Clinton, who survived public humiliation as first lady and then easily won two Senate races in New York, entered the 2008 presidential primary season as the odds-on favorite because of money, connections and celebrity. But through a series of blunders and the appearance of a once-in-a-lifetime opponent, Mrs. Clinton saw the prize slip through her grasp despite a valiant personal effort that lasted through the final contests in South Dakota and Montana.
 The Clintons often seemed out of touch with the political times -- cautious when they should have been bold, negative when they should have been inspirational. Exquisitely attuned to the political winds in 1992, they watched Mr. Obama almost effortlessly master the changed environment of 2008.
 Mr. Clinton, forever a riddle as a man and a public figure, was seen by many at the beginning of his wife's campaign as a political genius, a statesman and a racial healer who had done much through his charitable work to erase the stigma of his impeachment for lying about an affair with a young White House aide and other personal sins. But his conduct during his wife's campaign, right up to a blistering tirade against a magazine writer last week, raised new questions about his judgment and blotted his legacy. 
 Allies of the Clintons and neutral observers alike said Mrs. Clinton had much to be proud of in this campaign. She outlasted all but one of a distinguished field of primary opponents, won about 17 million votes and a dozen critical states, and earned grudging admiration for her fortitude even from those who despised her. She shattered the gender barrier at the presidential level for all who come after her. She emerged as the chosen tribune for a major part of the Democratic electorate.
 But she also made comments that divided voters along racial lines, stretched the facts and last month raised the specter of assassination as a justification for remaining in the race to the bitter end despite a mathematical near-certainty that she had lost weeks earlier.
 ''The Clintons are and probably always will be a paradox,'' said Leon Panetta, who served as chief of staff in the Clinton White House and who supported Mrs. Clinton's candidacy. ''They were very good at being able to gain power and then try to use that power to try to help ordinary Americans. The paradox is that in order to gain power, they sometimes did whatever it takes to win.'' 
 There were moments in this campaign, Mr. Panetta added, that made some people ''question where their heart really was.'' Mr. Panetta said this was especially sad given Mr. Clinton's strong presidential record on affirmative action and other racial issues.
 ''Look, both of them are viewed as tough fighters, both are viewed as people who will continue to confront the most difficult odds and sometimes still win,'' Mr. Panetta said. ''People will always admire that in them.'' But he added that this campaign, because it seemed to take a divisive turn, ''has in many ways hurt their legacy.''
 The race question will be one of the most difficult for the Clintons to deal with. Black politicians and voters had been among Mr. Clinton's hardiest defenders during impeachment and supported Mrs. Clinton in large numbers at the beginning of this contest. But comments from Mr. Clinton and several prominent black supporters of Mrs. Clinton earlier this year helped turn the black electorate decisively against her. Her remark last month that ''hard-working Americans, white Americans'' were supporting her did not help.
 ''It has definitely damaged not just hers but also Bill's legacy on race,'' said David Bositis, senior political analyst at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies.
 Sean Wilentz, professor of American history at Princeton University, said that the Clintons had been unfairly accused of exploiting racial divisions, but that the perception had taken hold and would take time to erase. He also said the harm to Mr. Clinton's image and stature in the party would turn around more quickly than the public view of Mrs. Clinton.
 ''Bill has the attributes of an old-fashioned, tactile, warm, outgoing politician,'' Mr. Wilentz said. ''We have not seen his like since Lyndon Johnson at his best.''
 He continued: ''He has 'it,' whatever 'it' is. Reagan had it, Franklin Roosevelt had it, Bill Clinton has it. People may be angry with him, disappointed in him, but they won't stay angry.''
 Mrs. Clinton is different, Mr. Wilentz said. ''She's anomalous. She makes people nervous. She's in a role people are unfamiliar with,'' he said. ''She doesn't project the kind of warmth in large public venues that he seems to, although she has gotten better at it.''
 Mr. Wilentz said that Mrs. Clinton's loss will sting for a bit but that her commitment to public life and public service will continue, whether in the Senate or perhaps in another run for the presidency. ''She's the titular leader of the center of the Democratic Party,'' he said. ''She has a duty to party and country to assume that role with grace and dexterity.''
 Other historians said the real impact of the race on the Clinton legacy would not be clear until November.
 ''If McCain wins a race that Democrats expect to win, a lot of people will say, 'If she had won the nomination, we would have won,' '' said Michael Kazin, a historian at Georgetown University. That could set the stage for a Clinton candidacy in 2012. 
 Many of Mr. Obama's loyalists, however, would attribute his defeat to her relentless campaign against him. Such division among Democrats could persist through the next presidential cycle and leave Mrs. Clinton weakened.
 If Mr. Obama wins, however, the era of Clinton dominance of the Democratic Party will be over. ''They will no longer be leaders of the party, and their role, especially his, will be much diminished,'' said Alan Brinkley, historian and provost at Columbia University. ''Bill Clinton has been head of the party for 16 years, literally and informally. Now there will be someone else.''
 Even so, Mr. Brinkley added, ''It will be a little like Ted Kennedy in 1980. That was sort of the end of the dream of another Kennedy presidency. But it didn't really diminish the importance of Kennedy in American life. And I don't think it will diminish theirs. They just won't be as central.''
 William A. Galston, a former White House adviser to the Clintons who is now at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said millions of people came to admire Mrs. Clinton's resilience, her indefatigability, her work ethic and the sheer will required to suit up every day and do battle against a better-armed opponent. ''She's endured worse,'' he said. ''I'm confident she'll pick herself up and definenew objectives.''
 But Mr. Galston also said the campaign had shattered the aura of Clintonian invincibility. ''It's one thing to disagree about tactics employed in the successful pursuit of victory,'' said Mr. Galston, who supported Mrs. Clinton. ''It's another to go flat-out in that mode and fail.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hillary Rodham Clinton conceded the Democratic nomination on Saturday at the National Building Museum in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); WRITERS (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); BABY BOOMERS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



227 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Old Partisan Gulf Is Back, Broad and Looming Large

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Strange as it sounds, the first five months of the 2008 campaign lacked the most powerful force in contemporary politics: partisanship fueled by ideology. 
 Senator John McCain prevailed over a field of Republicans who almost unanimously shared his support for the Iraq war, embrace of President Bush's tax cuts, skepticism toward government-run health care and opposition to abortion rights. Senator Barack Obama defeated Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in a Democratic race in which both staked out opposite ground from Mr. McCain. 
 Now those two self-contained conversations have given way to a broad clash of familiar product lines: Republican conservatism and Democratic liberalism. That clash has been obscured by the extended Obama-Clinton contest. But the huge stakes it carries for a discontented electorate ensure it will dominate the general election campaign. 
 The differences extend to every area of federal policy: troop levels in Iraq, America's confrontation with Iran, levels of taxes and spending, strategies for expanding health coverage, the shape of the judiciary, and social policy. As Americans focus on the Obama-McCain contrast, and millions of heretofore uninterested voters begin tuning in, the resulting crosscurrents could have unpredictable consequences.
 Mr. McCain is riding a tide that has given conservative candidates the upper hand in recent American history. Mr. Obama is surfing a wave that has crested in opposition to the Bush presidency over an unpopular war and a weakening economy. 
 Blurring the Lines
 To be sure, each of the presumptive nominees diverges from the traditional partisan mold in important respects. As the son of a black man from Kenya and a white woman from Kansas, Mr. Obama literally spans the nation's racial divide. He has cast himself as a ''postpartisan'' bridge-builder, and he broke with the prevailing Democratic sentiment by backing a health care overhaul that eschewed a universal coverage mandate. Mr. McCain opposed the Bush tax cuts before shifting his stance, bucked his party to win passage of changes to campaign finance rules, and has supported caps on carbon emissions that Mr. Bush and many other Republicans have rejected.
 Both men, in different ways, have challenged the establishment of their parties, and they must win over internal skeptics as a result.
 At the same time, each will highlight his positions that depart from the party orthodoxy to cast himself as a results-oriented reformer while bidding to win over two swing constituencies: socially moderate, affluent suburbanites, and culturally conservative working-class voters.
 Yet those heterodoxies are relatively small compared with the partisan differences that have made obsolete George C. Wallace's claim during his presidential run four decades ago that ''there's not a dime's worth of difference'' between the Democratic and Republican Parties. 
 Creating a Gulf
 It's no surprise that Mr. Wallace saw so little difference; both parties at the time harbored a mix of ideological types. Great Society liberals like Lyndon B. Johnson flew under the Democratic banner with segregationists like Mr. Wallace. Even as Barry Goldwater led the rise of the Republican right, the Senate Republican leader, Everett Dirksen, helped Mr. Johnson pass civil rights legislation. 
 By shaking Southern conservatives from their traditional partisan moorings, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Wallace, Richard M. Nixon and Ronald Reagan helped clarify partisan differences with clear electoral consequences. 
 In the nine presidential elections beginning in 1952, Republican nominees drew an average of 20 percent support among voters identifying themselves as Democrats. In the five elections beginning in 1988, they averaged 12 percent. Democratic nominees drew an average of 9 percent of the Republican vote in the five elections. 
 That shift has largely favored Republicans, the victors in nine of the last 14 presidential contests. In what the British journalists John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge dubbed ''the Right Nation,'' there are more conservatives than liberals. 
 Yet the short-term trends flow in Mr. Obama's direction. On Election Day 2004, exit polls showed the proportion of self-described partisans to be identical: 37 percent described themselves as Democrats, and 37 percent as Republicans. 
 Mr. Bush's unhappy second term has seen that balance shift dramatically. Two years after the Democrats' midterm election sweep of both houses of Congress, 46 percent of Americans labeled themselves Democrats and 33 percent Republicans in the most recent NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll. 
 Pressing an Edge
 Mr. Obama's task over the next 22 weeks is to hold that partisan advantage. 
 In industrial battlegrounds like Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania, he'll use his support of tax increases on wealthy Americans, criticism of trade expansion deals and plan for government action broadening health coverage to remind Mrs. Clinton's white blue-collar supporters why they had voted in the Democratic primary in the first place.
 Mr. McCain will use policy differences to maximize his ideological edge and reshape the partisan terrain. Thus Mr. Obama's support for ending the Iraq war will, in his opponent's telling, mark a return to the Democrats' dangerous post-Vietnam foreign policy weakness. In the same vein, Mr. McCain will argue that Mr. Obama's support for tax increases on wealthier Americans cloaks a characteristic Democratic push to raise everyone's taxes, and that his support for government activism on health care, housing and alternative-energy subsidies recalls the Democratic bent for blunting the dynamism of a free-market economy.
 Mr. McCain's maverick stances could strengthen his brand of Republicanism by distinguishing it from that of a president with an approval rating around 30 percent. Moreover, race-based resistance to Mr. Obama's bid to become the first black president will prove greater with the general electorate than inside the left-leaning universe of Democratic primary voters.
 Another wild card is the effects of personal contrasts as stark as those on policy. At 46, Mr. Obama boasts star power and soaring oratory that attract mammoth crowds. His background as a community organizer and ties to fiery Chicago activists, however, are difficult for some voters to relate to.
 Mr. McCain, by contrast, would become, at age 72, the oldest candidate elected to a first presidential term; witty and sharp in town hall settings, he often falters at a podium. Yet his military background and war-prisoner heroism allow him to tap the time-tested political vein of American patriotism.
 As the five-month march to November begins in earnest, many polls show Mr. Obama's edge within the margin of error. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HISTORY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TAX LAW (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); SURFING (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); RACE & RACISM (64%); ABORTION (56%); EMISSIONS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KENYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008



228 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Physicists in Congress Calculate Their Influence

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
According to the Congressional Research Service, there are only about 30 scientists among the 535 senators and representatives in the 110th Congress, and that is counting the psychologist, the psychiatrist, a dozen other M.D.'s, three nurses, an engineer, two veterinarians, a pharmacist and an optometrist. 
 But physics is on a roll. 
 ''Go back 15 years, and there weren't any physicists,'' said Vernon J. Ehlers, a Republican who taught the subject at Calvin College in Grand Rapids, Mich., until he was elected to Congress in 1993. 
 His was a lone voice until 1998, when Rush Holt, assistant director of the Princeton Plasma Physics laboratory, won election from New Jersey as a Democrat. And today there are three, adding Bill Foster, a physicist at Fermilab and another Democrat, who won a special election in March in Illinois. 
 ''If we continue to reproduce in this manner,'' Mr. Foster began, and Mr. Ehlers finished the thought, ''the entire Congress would consist of physicists!'' 
 They were joking -- probably. But a Congress full of physicists might solve some worrisome problems, the three-member physics caucus argued one afternoon when they met for a joint interview in the Capitol. 
 There are 435 people in the House, Mr. Holt said, and ''420 don't know much about science and choose not to.'' He recalled his exasperation when anthrax spores were discovered in the Capitol in 2001 and colleagues came to him and said, ''You are a scientist, you must know about anthrax,'' a subject ordinarily missing from the physics curriculum. 
 ''The difference,'' he said, ''is we would be perfectly happy to pick up a copy of The New England Journal of Medicine and read about the etiology of anthrax.''
 ''In fact, we basically did that,'' Mr. Ehlers said.
 ''We know more than our colleagues,'' Mr. Holt said, ''but not more than they could know.''
 Unfortunately, Mr. Foster said, ''unless things play to their advantage in the next election, they are not interested.'' 
 Not everyone agrees with that assessment. Sherwood L. Boehlert, the upstate New York Republican who until last year was chairman of the House Science Committee, said that what citizens should expect from their elected representatives is not knowledge of science per se, but rather ''an ability to reach out to experts in any given field and then do what is oftentimes hard for elected officials to do, listen instead of talk.'' 
 (For his part, Mr. Boehlert said, his last exposure to science was in a high school physics class, ''and I got a C.'')
 Problems arise not just in obviously science-related issues, but also, as Mr. Holt put it, in ''those countless issues, and it really is countless, that have scientific and technological components but the issues are not seen as science issues.''
 He cited the debates over electronic voting machines that caused problems ''that would be obvious to any computer scientist but went right past some people here in Congress.'' 
 Mr. Foster mentioned the debates over electronic border fences, which he said lacked ''fundamental concepts of what radar can or cannot do.''
 What is needed is not more advanced degrees, the physicists said (they all have Ph.D.'s), but a capacity to take the long view, what Mr. Ehlers called the scientists' ability to see from the pre-Cambrian era to the space age.
 But sometimes, he said, the problem is just old-fashioned ignorance. Several times he has found himself ''rushing to the floor'' to head off colleagues ready to eliminate financing for endeavors whose importance they did not understand. 
 Once it was game theory. The person seeking the cut did not seem to realize that game theory had to do with interactions in economics, behavior and other social sciences, not sports, Mr. Ehlers recounted. 
 Then there was the time he rose to defend A.T.M. research against a colleague who thought it should be left to the banking industry. In this case the initials stood for asynchronous transfer mode, a protocol for fiber-optic data transfer.
 '' 'The Two Cultures' is not a myth,'' Mr. Holt said, referring to a 1959 lecture by the British chemist and novelist C. P. Snow, who bemoaned a growing gulf between the sciences and the humanities. 
 Mr. Ehlers agreed, saying he had as much right to expect that his colleagues would understand basic physics concepts as they had to expect that he would be familiar with Shakespeare. ''It's utterly stupid that we have to fight that,'' he said.
 But there are barriers to drawing more scientists into politics. For one, Mr. Holt said, many researchers have the idea that ''politics is somehow dirty.'' 
 That was never an issue for him or Mr. Foster -- both came from political families. Mr. Holt's father represented West Virginia in the Senate from 1935 to 1941, and Mr. Foster's parents met when they worked on Capitol Hill. And Mr. Ehlers came up through the Republican ranks, finally winning the seat once held by President Gerald R. Ford. 
 When Ford was in Congress, Mr. Ehlers gathered a committee of scientists to meet with him from time to time on difficult scientific questions. These days, though, there is less ''comity'' in Congress, he said, and fellow scientists tell him they wonder why he stays involved. ''They say, 'I am glad you are there, but I think you are crazy.' '' 
 All three physicists had the same advice for whoever wins the White House this fall. Move quickly to appoint a science adviser and keep that person in the presidential inner circle.
 ''I would say that's No. 1,'' Mr. Ehlers said.
 Mr. Holt said: ''Proximity counts. You want face time.''
 Among other things, they said, a science adviser should be someone who will remind the next administration what science can and cannot do. 
 For example, Mr. Ehlers said, it is irksome to encounter people who ignore the scientific consensus that human activity contributes to global warming yet count on science to produce new sources of energy magically. ''They sort of reject our reasoning,'' he said. ''But they will come back and say, 'Science will find a way.' ''
 All three say they have thought about returning one day to full-time physics. When life in Congress becomes unusually frustrating, Mr. Ehlers said, ''I think, well, it would be great to be in the lab today.'' 
 Still, they say, they manage to overcome any intellectual disconnect between the more or less orderly laws of physics and the sausage-making aspects of legislation. ''Physicists are versatile,'' Mr. Ehlers said. ''We live in the real world.''
 After all, their caucus is growing. 
 ''We've done the calculation,'' Mr. Holt said. ''By midcentury, I think, we'll have a functioning majority.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THEORETICAL CAUCUS: Representatives Rush Holt, left
Bill Foster, center
 and Vernon J. Ehlers discussing their role. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICS (93%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); CURRICULA (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PLASMA PHYSICS (72%); ANTHRAX (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (84%)

PERSON: VERNON J EHLERS (89%); RUSH D HOLT (89%); BILL FOSTER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



229 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Report on City Police Shootings Urges More Use of Tasers Before Guns

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

 BODY:
Police recruits and veteran officers could benefit from more frequent firearms training and a wider use of Taser stun guns, according to a study of the New York Police Department's shooting habits released on Monday.
 The study, by the RAND Corporation, was commissioned in January 2007, about seven weeks after a Queens man, Sean Bell, died in a hail of 50 police bullets. Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said at the time that questions about the department's effectiveness and training required an independent review.
 RAND researchers raised the phenomenon of ''reflexive shooting,'' or contagious shooting, in which one officer's gunshots spur a fusillade of bullets by others in the area. 
 Though they could not say whether the phenomenon occurred more often than in the past, they recommended that the department add ''reflexive shooting scenarios that include a stimulus or the sound of gunfire, to sensitize officers to cues that may not be reliable, and to teach them that such cues may generate unwanted responses.''
 In addition to training, the RAND group studied how the department conducts internal reviews of police shootings.
 It studied 455 shootings that were adjudicated in 2004, 2005 and 2006 by the department's Firearms Discharge Review Board. The study found that while the board had ''exemplary procedures,'' and a record of producing quick and fact-filled reports with an eye toward the legalities of those shootings, it could benefit from more analysis of the tactics used so that lessons could be learned.
 In 25 of the 455 shootings, the RAND group found that officers might have been able to end confrontations more quickly by using a less lethal device -- like a Taser, which uses jolts of electricity to disable an assailant -- before those encounters escalated to a point where more deadly force was necessary. The police killed someone in 3 of the 25 cases.
 The authors of the 114-page study suggested the department carry out a pilot program in selected precincts to expand the availability of Taser guns with a goal of decreasing civilian or officer casualties. 
 At a news conference to outline the findings, Mr. Kelly strongly suggested that he would embrace the recommendation for a pilot program for the Taser devices, though he said he still had to distribute the report, and its ''well over a hundred recommendations,'' to those in his senior command. 
 He said he was aware that critics had assailed the use of Tasers, saying some officers tended to use them overzealously.
 But he said that by Wednesday, roughly 520 new Tasers -- which are not a substitute for a handgun -- would be available to about 3,500 sergeants on patrol, a shift from having them kept in certain patrol vehicles and in the hands of officers in the elite Emergency Service Unit. 
 ''This was a study that's focused on what we can do,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''It was not a panacea; it wasn't going to solve all issues as far as shootings are concerned.'' 
 The report also called for expanding hands-on, scenario-based training, said Bernard D. Rostker, a senior fellow at RAND, who presented the findings at 1 Police Plaza. The Police Academy now offers two six-month programs annually for thousands of officers. Mr. Rostker said, ''It would be better'' if more frequent and smaller classes were held.
 On requalification for officers on the job, Mr. Rostker said New York's officers requalified twice a year, as was the national standard, but suggested that one of the sessions include more ''street-oriented'' and real-life situations. He did add that the restraint used by New York officers was noteworthy compared with that of other departments nationally.
 Mr. Kelly said the department's antiquated police academy would be replaced by a more comprehensive center in College Point, Queens. Construction is expected to begin by the fall of 2009. It would include the ability for computer simulations and ''tactical village'' training, and various firing range simulations.
 ''It all sounds good to me, but as far as I can think, we have all presented such things before,'' said John C. Cerar, a retired deputy inspector who was the commander of the Police Department's firearms training section and who said he had not yet read the report. ''I wish the department could give a little bit more to training.''
 But he acknowledged the department's hurdles. ''With the facilities that the department has, it is limited because of the significant number of personnel they have to train,'' he said.
 Christopher T. Dunn, the associate legal director for the New York Civil Liberties Union, said the report represented a lost opportunity for the Police Department and the city.
 ''This report does nothing to answer the major questions that many New Yorkers were asking after the Bell shooting, including why officers are firing so many shots at civilians and why blacks and Latinos seem to be such a target for police shootings,'' Mr. Dunn said. ''Simply put, this is a major disappointment.''
 The RAND analysts -- who studied only shootings adjudicated by the internal board -- did not study the Bell shooting. Federal officials have asked the Police Department to wait before conducting an internal inquiry of the matter.
 Mr. Rostker said that data from police departments in Phoenix, Los Angeles, Washington and Chicago, among others, was compared with data from New York. However, he acknowledged that the races and ethnicities of those involved in police shootings were not a part of this study. RAND officials said later that the group was not asked to look at personal characteristics like race and age of perpetrators or victims in police shootings.
 ''We did not, explicitly, in 455 cases, line it up in terms of ethnicity,'' Mr. Rostker said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly displayed a Taser on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (95%); SHOOTINGS (92%); FIREARMS (91%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



230 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: Menthol Cigarettes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Opposition to Menthol Cigarettes Grows'' (Business Day, June 5) misses the point that the effort to prohibit menthol as a flavoring in cigarettes is but the first leap toward a national ban on all cigarettes. 
 Almost 30 percent of adult smokers prefer menthol products, meaning millions of Americans would suddenly and arbitrarily be denied their preference of cigarette. They would almost assuredly turn to the black market to obtain the product they want.
 History makes clear that prohibitions like this do more harm than good. The failed social experiment of alcohol prohibition is a good lesson. There is ample evidence that criminal enterprises and terrorist organizations already find the profit from black market cigarettes easy to generate and conceal. And that's when the product is legal everywhere, and the only differences in availability are the taxes from one jurisdiction to another. 
 It is inevitable that this problem will be worsened if an outright ban were put in place.
 Depriving thousands of hard-working Americans -- mom-and-pop convenience stores, tobacco farmers and everyone else in small companies that support the manufacture of menthol cigarettes -- of 30 percent of their business would be disastrous. 
 Coupled with the fact that the scientific research to date is inconclusive as to whether menthol products are any better or worse than nonmenthol products, it is clear that the advocated ban on menthol cigarettes is misguided and has the very real potential to harm our national and economic security.
 Martin L. Orlowsky Chairman, President and Chief Executive, Lorillard Tobacco Company Greensboro, N.C., June 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO PRODUCTS (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); SMOKING (78%); TOBACCO MFG (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TOBACCO FARMING (73%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (72%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (70%); CONVENIENCE STORES (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); TERRORISM (54%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (54%); RETAILERS (52%)

COMPANY: LORILLARD INC (91%)

TICKER: LO (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (50%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



231 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; GLOBAL UPDATE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: Direct Advice Has Direct Effects On Improving Neonatal Survival

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
Four million babies a year die in their first month of life. Very few die in hospital incubators; most were born in huts to mothers helped only by relatives or a village midwife. 
 A study published last week in The Lancet shows that home visits by even lightly trained health workers can make huge differences in survival. 
 While death rates of children 2 to 5 have dropped, thanks to measles shots, mosquito nets and other simple measures, deaths among newborns have not budged. Some are caused by birth asphyxiation, which is hard to prevent. But many die from problems easily prevented or cured: pneumonia, blood infections or tetanus.
 The study, led by doctors from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and paid for by the United States Agency for International Development, followed about 45,000 births in three groups of women in the Sylhet district of Bangladesh. 
 The first group received no intervention.
 The second was invited to childbirth classes. 
 Mothers in the third had five visits by health workers who had just six weeks of training. They offered iron and folic acid supplements along with advice about cutting the umbilical cord with a sterile blade, keeping the baby warm and breast-feeding. After births, the workers checked babies, diagnosed infections and gave antibiotics or suggested hospital visits. 
 In the first two groups, neonatal deaths were roughly the same. In the third, they were 34 percent lower.
 The authors estimated the cost at $3,000 per life saved.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); MIDWIVES (90%); INFANT MORTALITY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); ANTIBIOTICS (78%); BREASTFEEDING (73%); WRITERS (72%); BLOOD DISORDERS (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (70%); PNEUMONIA (70%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); BANGLADESH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



232 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Spread of Tuberculosis Seen Slowing Progress on AIDS

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

 BODY:
Inadequate attention to the spread of tuberculosis is undermining recent gains made against the virus that causes AIDS, United Nations officials said Monday.
 Tuberculosis and AIDS are now epidemic in many areas of the world, and the two infectious diseases must be addressed together, said the officials, who spoke from the United Nations' first high-level meeting on the interaction of the two diseases. 
 Tuberculosis, an airborne disease, is the most important medical complication of infection with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. Tuberculosis is also the No. 1 killer among H.I.V.-infected people in Africa and a leading cause of their death elsewhere, the officials said. 
 Jorge Sampaio, a former president of Portugal who serves as the United Nations' special envoy to stop tuberculosis, said he and Secretary General Ban Ki-moon had convened the meeting at the United Nations headquarters to gain political support for ''a much-neglected problem.''
 In addition, the officials said, because of the continued spread of drug-resistant tuberculosis, health workers may become increasingly reluctant to care for H.I.V.-infected patients.
 Dr. Kevin M. DeCock, director of the H.I.V. department of the World Health Organization, a United Nations agency, said that health workers might accept the modest risk of becoming H.I.V.-infected through needles and blood. But, he added, ''it is quite another thing if you are at risk by sharing air with patients with H.I.V. disease'' who have tuberculosis that is resistant to standard and second-line drugs.
 That, he said, ''has the potential to change how health care workers look at the issue of AIDS care.''
 Because tuberculosis is often neglected, people who are infected but have no symptoms often fail to receive a drug, isoniazid, that could help prevent development of the full-blown disease, the officials said.
 At least 700,000 tuberculosis cases develop among H.I.V.-infected people each year, and this year an estimated 230,000 H.I.V.-infected people will die from tuberculosis. The number includes many who received standard antiretroviral drugs that can keep H.I.V. in check, but failed to receive drugs that can usually cure nonresistant tuberculosis, said Dr. Mario C. Raviglione, the director of tuberculosis control for the W.H.O.
 Nearly 1,000 cases of the most drug-resistant form of tuberculosis have been detected throughout South Africa. Additional cases have been found to varying extents in other countries throughout the world.
 Dr. DeCock likened the current situation in southern Africa to the recognition of drug-resistant tuberculosis in New York City and parts of Florida in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
 All forms of tuberculosis can be transmitted to anyone, whether H.I.V.-infected or not, and can spread locally, regionally and elsewhere by air travel, Dr. DeCock said.
 The dangers of transmission of resistant tuberculosis came to widespread attention at the International AIDS Conference in Toronto in 2006. There, researchers reported a recent outbreak in which 52 of 53 patients in a rural hospital in South Africa had died from the most resistant form of the disease.
 Treatment of drug-resistant tuberculosis is difficult and costly. Some patients can be treated successfully by manipulating combinations of drugs after extensive laboratory tests of the bacteria that infected them. But such tests are generally available only in rich countries.
 A particular problem is that in 2006 worldwide, only 12 percent of reported tuberculosis cases were also tested for H.I.V.; in Africa the percentage was 22. But Dr. Raviglione noted a few signs of progress. He said that the percentage of tuberculosis patients tested for H.I.V. in Kenya rose to 70 in 2007 from 19 in 2004 and in Malawi to 83 from 25 in 2004. In Rwanda, the percentage rose to 89 from zero.
 Dr. Raviglione and others called for strengthening the health infrastructure in many countries to detect additional cases. He also called for more research because standard tools and drugs are difficult to use in poor countries.
 An investment of $19 billion through 2014 could cut deaths by 80 percent, the officials said.
 Mr. Sampaio, the United Nations special envoy, said the ''call for action'' represented ''the next inevitable step if we really want to control these two epidemics, because if we don't do it, the economic, social and human rights situation will be much worse than it is today.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (94%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TUBERCULOSIS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); VIRUSES (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); DRUG RESISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); ANTIVIRALS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ANTIBIOTICS (78%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (78%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (73%); HEALTH CARE (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFRICA (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



233 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Gadfly, Contending Price Fixing, Sues OPEC

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
With Democrats in Congress demanding a get-tough-or-else approach to the oil industry, Larry Klayman decided he'd had enough. It was time to call gasoline prices what he thinks they are -- economic terrorism. 
 So, after spending $66 to fill up his Cadillac CTS sedan, Mr. Klayman, a lawyer and conservative gadfly, filed a federal lawsuit here on Monday accusing the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries of price fixing.
 ''It's now quite obvious that what they're doing is intentional,'' he said. ''What they're trying to do is bring Western economies to their knees. It's extremely clever.'' 
 Mr. Klayman said OPEC countries like Saudi Arabia and Venezuela in particular hoped to extract concessions from the United States by highlighting America's energy vulnerabilities. With Democrats likely to benefit on Election Day, he said, he sued, arguing OPEC has violated American antitrust laws, partly to goad Republicans to action. 
 ''This is going to cost them the election,'' he said. ''We haven't seen an economy this bad since Jimmy Carter.'' 
 Mr. Klayman, 56, made a name for himself as the founder of Judicial Watch, a conservative group that filed at least 18 suits against the Clinton administration in the 1990s contending cover-ups. More recently, he sued Vice President Dick Cheney, demanding the release of records of his energy group. The Supreme Court backed up executive privilege in the case.
 This time, Mr. Klayman has more friends on the left than the right. Last month, House Democrats passed a bill to allow the government to sue OPEC for conspiring to manipulate the world oil prices. Many Republicans have avoided such an action.
 Representative K. Michael Conaway, Republican of Texas, warned suits against OPEC could inspire harsh retaliation that ''may even limit the availability of gasoline to the United States.''
 Mr. Klayman said he was not surprised by the response. In his view, the government has abdicated its responsibility on energy, leaving citizens no option other than to sue. 
 ''A lot of these politicians are in bed with the Saudi royal family,'' he said. ''It's time to take the kid gloves off.''
 OPEC did not respond to requests for comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE FIXING (92%); BUSINESS TORTS (90%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SEDANS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); POLITICS (76%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (76%); LITIGATION (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); TERRORISM (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); K MICHAEL CONAWAY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



234 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: More Girls, Little Ones, Try to Take Back the Multiplex

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
''Kit Kittredge: An American Girl'' has no sex and not much of a city.
 But this G-rated movie adventure is shaping up as Hollywood's next serious bid for female viewers, some of whom showed their power by pushing the R-rated comedy ''Sex and the City'' to surprisingly strong first-weekend ticket sales of more than $57 million two weeks ago.
 At first glance, the films have little in common, apart from their skew toward the female.
 ''Sex'' runs hot, while ''Kit'' -- scheduled for wide release on July 2, the same day as ''Hancock,'' starring Will Smith -- does not. Fans of the fictional Manhattan writer Carrie Bradshaw, the heroine of ''Sex and the City,'' are often over 40. Ms. Kittredge, an aspiring reporter based on Mattel's incredibly popular American Girl doll of the same name, mostly appeals to girls between 7 and 12. 
 Yet the films have a certain kinship. Each was made by a studio -- ''Kit'' by Picturehouse, ''Sex'' by New Line Cinema -- that was only weeks ago marked for elimination by the same corporate parent, Time Warner Inc.
 And ''Kit'' has a shot at attracting an intense niche audience of the sort that boosted ''Sex'' at a time of year that has become better known for fantasies like the ''Spider-Man'' and ''Pirates of the Caribbean'' movies, with their broad demographic appeal.
 ''I'm scared out of my mind,'' said Elaine Goldsmith-Thomas, a producer of ''Kit Kittredge,'' speaking by telephone last week. She was referring to an unconventional decision by Picturehouse executives to open this relatively small film in around 1,800 theaters, putting it in competition with potential blockbusters like ''Hancock,'' from Sony Pictures, and ''Wall-E,'' from the Walt Disney Company's Pixar Animation Studios.
 ''Kit,'' which cost about $10 million to produce, stars Abigail Breslin (''Little Miss Sunshine'') and features an ensemble that mingles unknown child actors with adult pros like Julia Ormond, Stanley Tucci, Chris O'Donnell and Joan Cusack. Set in 1934, it tells the story of a Cincinnati girl who is trying to get the local newspaper to take her seriously as a reporter, even as her family and just about everyone else struggles with the Great Depression.
 (Julia Roberts, a client of Ms. Goldsmith-Thomas when she was a talent agent, is an executive producer of ''Kit.'' The two were among those with producing credits on earlier television movies based on three other American Girls: Molly, Felicity and Samantha.)
 That quite so innocent an enterprise should be in a position to challenge much racier movies with much higher budgets has much to do with the promotional power of American Girl, which, like HBO's long-running ''Sex and the City'' series, is helping to prime loyal fans for a first film based on the brand.
 In the toy world, American Girl's characters -- ''they never refer to them as 'dolls,' '' Bob Berney, the president of Picturehouse, said in an interview last week -- are unusual in that they come with detailed story lines, from various eras, delivered in books that accompany each figure.
 Kit Kittredge, spunky and a bit confused by the economic crunch around her, has been the central character in a half-dozen titles that have contributed to the sale of some 120 million books since the company was founded in 1986, said Ellen Brothers, American Girl's president and a producer of the film.
 ''We approve all the marketing,'' Ms. Brothers said, describing her company's close involvement with the making and selling of the movie. And American Girl has been using its considerable reach to promote what it is calling ''Kit's Big-Screen Debut.'' 
 The company's mail-order catalog, a primary engine for sales, has a blurb promoting the movie on its May cover. Cities with American Girl retail outlets -- New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Dallas and suburban Atlanta -- will get to see the movie early, beginning on June 20. That first round is being helped along on the Web with Kit's movie blog and, at the Grove shopping mall in Los Angeles, with the giveaway of ''Kit's Home on Abbott Place,'' an elaborate playhouse built by Pardee Homes as part of a benefit for the homeless.
 Last Saturday mothers and daughters trooped through the siding- and stone-veneered structure to admire it, and to donate $5 for ''opportunity tickets'' -- never say ''raffle'' -- that buy a shot at taking it home. '' 'Win Me?' '' one mother gasped, reading a sign outside, ''Oh, my God!''
 Other plans include movie-night dinners at the in-store American Girl cafes, which begin to sound, at least a little, like the viewing parties that pushed ''Sex and the City'' over the top during its May 30 opening weekend.
 Allie Mayer, a publicist for movietickets.com, said the service had seen ''steady activity'' since it began selling tickets for the early engagement last month.
 Mr. Berney said a box-office success would be ''a little bittersweet'': His company will remain intact only long enough to release its existing films, including ''Kit,'' ''Mongol'' and ''The Women'' (scheduled for fall). To date, the studio's biggest box-office hit has been ''Pan's Labyrinth,'' which took in $37.6 million at the domestic box office in 2006. 
 If ''Kit'' works, its success would owe something not just to the promotions, but also to the straight-shooting approach of a director, Patricia Rozema, whose earlier work includes ''Mansfield Park'' (1999) for Miramax.
 ''I don't think you talk down to children when you make a movie for them,'' Ms. Rozema said. She spoke in a telephone interview about Kit's rather intricate on-screen problem, which include doubts about a father, played by Mr. O'Donnell, who leaves home in search of work, and no small difficulties with a newspaper editor played by Wallace Shawn.
 Still, Kit preserves her G-rated innocence, something Ms. Rozema said had become too rare, even in films aimed at the young. (''Bratz: The Movie,'' which was based on a doll line and took in about $10 million for Lionsgate last summer, was rated PG.)
 ''They don't need to be rattled,'' she said. ''They're rattled enough.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Abigail Breslin in ''Kit Kittredge: An American Girl.'' PHOTOGRAPH BY CYLLA VON TIEDEMANN/PICTUREHOUSE)(E1)
 Abigail Breslin plays Kit Kittredge in a G-rated film scheduled for wide release on July 2. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CYLLA VON TIEDEMANN/PICTUREHOUSE)(E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RATINGS (90%); FILM (90%); CONTENT RATINGS (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ANIMATION (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); ANIMATED FILMS (73%); WRITERS (73%); TICKET SALES (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%)

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (82%); WALT DISNEY CO (63%); MATTEL INC (56%); NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (55%); PIXAR ANIMATION STUDIOS INC (52%)

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (82%); DIS (NYSE) (63%); MAT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (63%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (63%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (63%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (56%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (56%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (55%)

PERSON: WILL SMITH (57%); JULIA ROBERTS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Kit Kittredge: An American Girl (Movie)>; Kit Kittredge: An American Girl (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



235 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Out Of Sight

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
When the dismal unemployment numbers were released on Friday (at the same time that oil prices were surging to record highs), I thought about the young people at the bottom of the employment ladder.
 Below the bottom, actually.
 A shudder went through the markets when the Labor Department reported that the official jobless rate had jumped one-half a percentage point in May to 5.5 percent -- the sharpest spike in 22 years. 
 The young people I'm talking about wouldn't have noticed. These are the teenagers and young adults -- roughly 16 to 24 years old -- who are not in school and basically have no hope of finding work. The bureaucrats compiling the official unemployment rate don't even bother counting these young people. They are no one's constituency. They might as well not exist.
 Except that they do exist. There are four million or more of these so-called disconnected youths across the country. They hang out on street corners in cities large and small -- and increasingly in suburban and rural areas.
 If you ask how they survive from day to day, the most likely response is: ''I hustle,'' which could mean anything from giving haircuts in a basement to washing a neighbor's car to running the occasional errand.
 Or it could mean petty thievery or drug dealing or prostitution or worse.
 This is the flip side of the American dream. The United States economy, which has trouble producing enough jobs to keep the middle class intact, has left these youngsters all-but-completely behind.
 ''These kids are being challenged in ways that my generation was not,'' said David Jones, the president of the Community Service Society of New York, which tries to develop ways to connect these young men and women with employment opportunities, or get them back into school.
 It is extremely difficult because, for the most part, the jobs are not there and the educational establishment is having a hard enough time teaching the kids who are still in school.
 ''Schools have not made much of an effort to bring this population back in,'' said Mr. Jones. ''Once you fall out of the system, you're basically on no one's programmatic radar screen.''
 So these kids drift. Some are drawn to gangs. A disproportionate number become involved in crime. It is a tragic story, and very few people are paying attention.
 The economic policies of the past few decades have favored the wealthy and the well-connected to a degree that has been breathtaking to behold. The Nation magazine has devoted its current issue to the Gilded Age-type inequality that has been the result.
 Just a little bit of help to the millions of youngsters trying to get their first tentative foothold in that economy should not be too much to ask.
 It's not as if these kids don't want to work. Many of them search and search until they finally become discouraged. The summer job market, which has long been an important first step in preparing teenagers for the world of work, is shaping up this year as the weakest in more than half a century, according to the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston. 
 Now, with the overall economy deteriorating, the situation for poorly educated young people will only grow worse. As Andrew Sum, director of the Center for Labor Market Studies, told The Times recently:
 ''When you get into a recession, kids always get hit the hardest. Kids always go to the back of the hiring queue. Now, they find themselves with a lot of other people in line ahead of them.''
 As the ranks of these youngsters grow, so does their potential to become a destabilizing factor in the society.
 More important, the U.S. needs the untapped talent (and the potential buying power) in this large pool of young people, just as it needs the talents of the many other Americans of all ages whose energy, intelligence and creativity are wasted in an economic system that is not geared toward providing jobs for everyone who wants to work.
 America needs to dream bigger, and in this election year, job creation should be issue No. 1. If I were running for president, I would pull together the smartest minds I could find from government, the corporate world, the labor movement, academia, the nonprofits and ordinary working men and women to see what could be done to spark the creation of decent jobs on a scale that would bring the U.S. as close as possible to full employment.
 We've maxed out the credit cards, floated mindlessly in stock market bubbles, refinanced mortgages to death -- now's the time to figure out how to put all Americans to work. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MISDEMEANORS (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); PUBLIC POLICY (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



236 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: F.H.A. Expects Big Loss On Home Loan Defaults

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Housing Administration expects to lose $4.6 billion because of unexpectedly high default rates on home loans, officials said Monday. 
 Brian D. Montgomery, the F.H.A. commissioner, attributed the unanticipated losses primarily to the agency's seller-financed down payment mortgage program, which has suffered from high delinquency and foreclosure rates in recent years.
 Housing officials said the agency was also hurt by poor performance in its traditional mortgage portfolio. Deteriorating economic conditions led some of its core clients -- first-time buyers, minorities and lower-income owners -- to default, they said. 
 The projected loss is the highest in the home loan program since 2004, and officials said the F.H.A. had to withdraw $4.6 billion from its $21 billion capital reserve fund in May to cover the costs. They said the agency, which is self-sustaining, would not need appropriations from Congress to remain solvent.
 But Mr. Montgomery warned that the F.H.A. would have to renew its efforts to end the seller-financed down payment program, which accounted for 35 percent of its loans in 2007. 
 He said the mortgages had foreclosure rates three times those of traditional loans and would push the F.H.A. to the brink of insolvency.
 ''Let me repeat: F.H.A. is solvent,'' Mr. Montgomery said on Monday in a speech at the National Press Club. ''However, no insurance company can sustain that amount of additional costs year after year and still survive. Unless we take action to mitigate these losses, F.H.A. will soon either have to shut down or rely on appropriations to operate.''
 F.H.A.'s projected loss, more than four times the shortfall attributed to the home program last year, raised concerns about the agency's ability to lead the national effort to rescue homeowners facing foreclosure.
 President Bush and leading Democrats in Congress are counting on the F.H.A., which is overseen by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, to help distressed borrowers refinance into stable, government-backed loans. 
 Officials say the agency will help 500,000 people refinance by the end of the year, but a vast majority of those have made their payments on time.
 Howard Glaser, a mortgage industry consultant who served as HUD general counsel in the Clinton administration, sees the anticipated loss as a concern. ''Congress is relying on F.H.A. to help stabilize the mortgage market, but it's not clear that F.H.A. is as strong as it could be,'' he said.
 Mr. Montgomery said the agency planned to reopen the comment period on a proposed rule to the Federal Register that would ban the program. But the F.H.A. has tried to eliminate seller-financed down payment loans for years, and it remains unclear whether it will be successful now. 
 Under the program, a home seller arranges to cover the buyer's down payment, using financial help from a nonprofit company, but typically adds that sum or more to the price of the house. The deal has been particularly attractive to financially struggling buyers and to owners in depressed markets, according to Congressional officials. 
 Critics say the practice puts overpriced houses in the hands of poor and minority homeowners who ultimately cannot cover the mortgage. In recent years, the Government Accountability Office and the Internal Revenue Service have both raised concerns about the program.
 But with the subprime market collapsed and mortgage companies tightening lending criteria, seller down payment loans have become increasingly appealing both to sellers in slumping housing markets and to lower-income homebuyers unable to get conventional mortgages. 
 The program, which accounted for less than 2 percent of F.H.A.-insured loans in 2000, now accounts for more than a third of the agency's portfolio. Housing officials said that 60 percent of F.H.A.'s anticipated loss was directly attributable to the seller-financed down payment program. 
 Supporters of the loans, who include some powerful members of Congress, counter that the program provides much-needed assistance to low-income and minority families who would otherwise be unable to buy homes. 
 Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, remains opposed to any F.H.A. rule that would eliminate the program, a spokesman said on Monday. Mr. Frank has said he would like to reform the program without killing it.
 Some nonprofit companies that provide down payment assistance said they would continue to battle efforts to close them down. They have successfully sued HUD in the past.
 So far, the courts have blocked the agency's efforts, citing problems in the rule-making process of the agency, among other things.
 ''If there's any justice in this country, they will fail yet again,'' said Scott Syphax, president of Nehemiah Corporation of America, which provides such loans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LAWYERS (69%); CENSORSHIP (64%); CITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



237 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Saudi Arabia Seeks Summit on Oil Prices

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter, said on Monday that it wanted to convene an energy summit of producers and consumers to focus on ''how to objectively deal'' with high prices. 
 After a cabinet meeting led by King Abdullah, the Saudi government said, ''the increase in prices isn't justified in terms of market fundamentals,'' according to a statement from the official Saudi Press Agency. 
 The proposal comes as gasoline prices are surging to record highs and political exasperation in Washington over high oil costs is mounting.
 No date was given for the energy summit. Iyad Madani, the kingdom's information minister, said Saudi Arabia would also work with other OPEC members to ''guarantee the availability of oil supplies, now and in the future.'' 
 Few analysts expect that a concerted effort by producers and consumers will push down prices. Still, the Saudi statement, while vague, helped prick the momentum of last week, when oil prices gained an unprecedented $16 a barrel over two days of trading. Oil futures fell $4.19 on Monday to close at $134.35 a barrel. 
 The surge in fuel prices is turning into a major political issue with Democrats and Republicans competing to take action in Congress. One bill considered in the Senate would allow the Justice Department to bring antitrust lawsuits against members of OPEC, which include Saudi Arabia, for withholding oil supplies and pushing up prices.
 But even as oil declined, gasoline set a new high. The national average price of a gallon of gas rose 1.8 cents overnight to $4.023, according to AAA. The average gas price rose above $4 a gallon for the first time on Sunday. 
 Saudi Arabia has been sending increasingly mixed signals in recent months, even as the run-up in oil prices has reached levels that would have seemed unimaginable just a few months ago. Earlier this year, the Saudi monarch signaled that the kingdom would slow down oil expansion to preserve its hydrocarbon resources for future generations.
 President Bush has visited Saudi Arabia twice this year and each time failed to secure a commitment from the Saudis to pump more oil into the market. But some experts say that the Saudis are concerned about the impact of high prices on the American economy, the world's largest consumer of oil, and the growth in alternative fuels.
 ''There really is no coincidence in timing, the Saudis are well attuned to what happens here politically,'' said Steven A. Cook, a Middle East expert at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. ''This is a public relations thing to show they care. It is also a real concern that should these prices be sustained in the long haul, this would not be in the interest of Saudi Arabia.'' 
 Meanwhile, the president of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Chakib Khelil, said Monday that oil supplies were ''largely sufficient.'' 
 ''The economic crisis in the U.S. caused the dollar to drop sharply and the threats against Iran heightened geopolitical tensions,'' Mr. Khelil said, according to Bloomberg News. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); CARTELS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); FUTURES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (66%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (65%); LITIGATION (50%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



238 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Planes, but Not Fewer Delays

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With airlines grounding planes because of fuel costs, there will be fewer planes in the sky. Logic suggests passengers could hope for fewer delays. 
 But the Federal Aviation Administration cautions that air traffic lanes will continue to be full in air space that is normally crowded.
 The reason is that the airlines will contract their flying schedules in less-busy cities, which never had much congestion to begin with, and landing slots at busy airports will, for the most part, continue to be fully used, F.A.A. officials say. After all, big airports are the places where airlines can fill up big planes. 
 ''We're going to see the concentration of large operators at the large airports,'' said Michael J. Sammartino, director of system operations at the F.A.A.'s Strategic Command Center in Herndon, Va. 
 Even so, the agency plans a variety of new steps to reduce delays, relying on new technologies and procedures.
 Traffic at the top 35 airports was up 1.5 percent from October through April, compared with the same period a year earlier. 
 As always, the pattern among airports was mixed; Seattle-Tacoma was up 13.9 percent; San Francisco, 9 percent; Orlando, 8.4 percent; Reagan National Airport in Washington, 8.3 percent; and Charlotte, N.C., 7 percent. Two historically congested airports, Kennedy Airport and Newark Liberty, showed increases of 5.1 percent and 1.1 percent, respectively. But Boston's Logan was down 3.6 percent; Pittsburgh, 3.4 percent; and Chicago's O'Hare, 3 percent.
 Not everyone agrees that traffic will stay strong at the big airports. The cuts will ripple through some of the country's biggest hubs, said Joseph P. Schwieterman, a professor at DePaul University and an expert on air transportation. 
 ''Some airports will see a double-digit percentage decline in flights by late fall,'' he added, though most of the cuts are likely to occur during off-peak flying periods. ''All the airlines haven't played their hands yet, but at $130 fuel I don't think there's much doubt'' that there will be steep cuts in service. 
 The cuts will not be permanent, some industry experts say. ''The reduction in service domestically is a short-term phenomenon,'' said Aaron J. Gellman, a professor of management and strategy at Northwestern University's Transportation Center. 
 ''This is partly based on the belief that fuel prices will come down and economic growth will become quite vigorous again,'' he said. ''There's a market out there to be served. I don't think the airlines will fail to do so.'' 
 In New York, the big change is probably not in the volume of flights, but in caps imposed by the F.A.A. on the number of landings and takeoffs that can be scheduled per hour at Kennedy and Newark. The busy time now starts earlier in the day, and the total number of flights may rise, according to the F.A.A. and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. 
 With the old system of peaks and valleys in the level of operation, controllers could use a normally quiet time to clear out a backlog; now there are no normally quiet times. The result, said Nancy B. Kalinowski, vice president of the F.A.A.'s Air Traffic Organization, is that ''a good day should be good, but a bad day will be horrid.''
 Port Authority officials say delays at New York-area airports have varied independently of the level of operations, and they are not sure that thinning out the traffic will reduce delays. 
 ''I don't get the level of delay we're getting now,'' said William R. DeCota, executive director of aviation at the Port Authority. The Port Authority opposed the flight caps imposed by the F.A.A.
 The F.A.A., though, says the caps will help smooth out the traffic flow. It has a variety of other changes in place, in New York and elsewhere, to cut delays. Ms. Kalinowski says that ''2008 is going to be different from the summer of 2007. I'm not going to use the word 'hoping.' We are planning for it to be different.''
 To speed up traffic, the F.A.A. is opening new routes for jets that are equipped with satellite navigation. The routes are separated by 8 to 12 miles -- close by traditional standards but a lot of space if the plane's location is more precisely known.
 Those routes are over land, and the agency has taken a parallel step over the Atlantic, adding paths that airliners equipped with satellite navigation can follow from the New York area to the Caribbean. Planes flying over water, where there is no radar, used to be separated laterally by 90 miles; now they are separated by 50. 
 The F.A.A. will also borrow space off the Atlantic coast from the military this summer, as it did last Thanksgiving and Christmas, but it plans a more sophisticated approach, with predesignated routes, which will make it easier for airlines to plan their flights. The F.A.A. also plans to make requests from the Pentagon longer in advance, on the basis of forecasted thunderstorms. 
 The agency has also adopted ''dispersal headings'' for planes departing from Newark and Philadelphia. Planes leaving those airports will peel off in different directions earlier in their flights, allowing more departures each hour. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Air traffic controllers at Boston's Logan International Airport. Despite the efforts of large airlines to cut costs by grounding planes, traffic has increased at most of the nation's top airports. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); AIRLINES (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (77%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



239 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE FOOD CHAIN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: Worries Mount As Farmers Push For Big Harvest

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD and KEITH BRADSHER; David Streitfeld reported from Indiana and Kansas. Keith Bradsher reported from Thailand and the Philippines.

DATELINE: GRIFFIN, Ind. 

 BODY:
In a year when global harvests need to be excellent to ease the threat of pervasive food shortages, evidence is mounting that they will be average at best. Some farmers are starting to fear disaster.
 American corn and soybean farmers are suffering from too much rain, while Australian wheat farmers have been plagued by drought. 
 ''The planting has gotten off to a poor start,'' said Bill Nelson, a Wachovia grains analyst. ''The anxiety level is increasing.''
 Randy Kron, whose family has been farming in the southwestern corner of Indiana for 135 years, should have corn more than a foot tall by now. But all spring it has seemed as if there were a faucet in the sky. The rain is regular, remorseless. 
 Some of Mr. Kron's fields are too soggy to plant. Some of the corn he managed to get in has drowned, forcing him to replant. The seeds that survived are barely two inches high. 
 At a moment when the country's corn should be flourishing, one plant in 10 has not even emerged from the ground, the Agriculture Department said Monday. Because corn planted late is more sensitive to heat damage in high summer, every day's delay practically guarantees a lower yield at harvest. 
 ''This is pushing my nerves to the limit,'' Mr. Kron said one recent morning, the sky as dark as the unplanted earth. 
 Last winter, as the full scope of the global food crisis became clear, commodity prices doubled or tripled, provoking grumbling in America, riots in two dozen countries and the specter of greatly increased malnutrition.
 As the world clamors for more corn, wheat, soybeans and rice, farmers are trying to meet the challenge. Millions of acres are coming back into production in Europe. In Asia, planting two or three crops in a single year is becoming more common.
 American farmers are planting 324 million acres this year, up 4 million acres from 2007. Too much of the best land is waterlogged, however. Indiana and Illinois have been the worst hit, although Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota were inundated last weekend.
 Bob Biehl, whose farm is near St. Louis, has managed to plant only 140 of the 650 acres he wanted to devote to corn. Some farmers in his area ''haven't even been able to take the tractor out of the shed,'' he said. 
 United States soybean plantings are running 16 percent behind last year. Rice is tardy in Arkansas, which produces nearly half the country's crop. ''We're certainly not going to have as good a crop as we had hoped,'' said Harvey Howington of the Arkansas Rice Growers Association. ''I don't think this is good news for anybody.''
 Harvests ebb and flow, of course. But with supplies of most of the key commodities at their lowest levels in decades, there is little room for error this year. American farmers are among the world's top producers, supplying 60 percent of the corn that moves across international borders in a typical year, as well as a third of the soybeans, a quarter of the wheat and a tenth of the rice.
 ''If we have bad crops, it's going to be a wild ride,'' said the Agriculture Department's chief economist, Joseph Glauber. ''There's just no cushion.'' 
 As every farmer knows, trouble can come at any point before the harvest is complete. Danny and Karen Smith get up in the middle of the night at their wheat farm in Milton, Kan., whenever they hear thunder. 
 In a few weeks, the wheat they planted last fall will be ripe. A bad storm or, worse, a tornado could destroy it. Last year, the Smiths lost nearly all their wheat to a late freeze compounded by too much rain. 
 This year, the weather has been perfect: cool and moist. ''See how plump these berries are?'' Mr. Smith said, standing in the middle of one of his fields. ''This will feed a lot of people.''
 The world wheat harvest is forecast to rise more than 8 percent this year, because of better weather and more acreage under cultivation. But even this bright spot is tentative. Australia was expected to emerge from a two-year drought, but that prediction is looking somewhat doubtful.
 With the exception of southwestern Australia and a small corner of southeastern Australia, little rain has fallen in recent months. Many wheat farmers have been unable to plant at all, said Bob Iffla, the chairman of the country's Wheat Growers Association.
 As a result, the harvest is likely to be below average: 5 million to 15 million tons of wheat available for export, compared with 17 million or 18 million tons in an average year. 
 China also faces trouble: the agriculture ministry issued an urgent notice to wheat and rice farmers in southern China on Sunday, telling them to harvest as much of their crop as possible immediately in the face of unseasonable torrential rains expected to rake the region for the next 10 days. 
 In the American corn belt, the issue has also been getting the rain to stop. After heavy rains and flooding last weekend, the price of corn on the commodity markets rose Monday to a record $6.57 a bushel. 
 ''We can't snap our fingers and make high yields,'' said Emerson D. Nafziger, a professor of agronomic extension at the University of Illinois. ''We still depend on the weather.''
 A universal saying among farmers is that high prices never last, because they encourage production that fills the demand and drives down the prices. The current crisis is testing that theory. With costs soaring for fertilizer and diesel, the expenses of farming are so high that the urge to plant more is battling, in some places, with the temptation to plant nothing.
 Prajoub Suksapsri in Ayutthaya, Thailand, is among the farmers going all-out this year. For the first time in two decades of farming, Mr. Prajoub is preparing to plant a second crop of rice on his land, which usually does not have irrigation.
 He and his neighbors have risked their savings to set up a system to pump water into their fields. If rice prices stay high, Mr. Prajoub could make the biggest profit he has seen in years from his two-acre farm. But if prices fall, he could face heavy losses.
 ''Sometimes I lie awake at night, worrying about it,'' he said, watching his new Honda generator chug steadily, running the pumps. The landlord for the fields that he rents is charging him more than triple the usual amount just for the right to plant an extra harvest.
 ''He is sucking my blood,'' Mr. Prajoub said.
 Helen Gabriel's farm in south-central Luzon Island in the Philippines also measures two acres and lacks irrigation. Faced with soaring costs for diesel, fertilizer, rice seed and insecticide, she has made a different decision from Mr. Prajoub.
 ''We will have no crop this year,'' Mrs. Gabriel said as she waited in a three-hour line for the right to buy 4.4 pounds of government-subsidized rice.
 World stockpiles of rice are likely to shrink slightly this year, excluding Chinese food security reserves that are not available for world trade, after already dwindling markedly in six of the last eight years, said Concepcion Calpe, a Food and Agriculture Organization rice specialist in Rome.
 That estimate does not take into account the turmoil in Arkansas. Last year, the rice crop in Arkansas yielded a record 160 bushels an acre. This year, experts there say, 150 bushels will be an achievement. 
 ''There's no doubt about it, we're not going to have the rice to export,'' said Carl Frein of Farmers Marketing Service in Brinkley, Ark. ''Poor countries like Haiti, Idon't know what they're going to do.''
 For all the apprehension this year, the growing season is still young, with plenty of time for the situation to improve -- or for crops to fail.
 ''I've seen mediocre starts get a bit better, and mediocre starts get a whole lot worse,'' said Mr. Nelson, the grains analyst.
 Mr. Kron, the Indiana farmer, gave up on corn last week after managing to plant -- and in some cases replant -- only about half of his 1,200 acres.
 Last year, his corn yielded 150 bushels an acre. This year, he will be happy to get 130 bushels. He has warned his processor, Azteca Milling, which makes flour for tortillas and chips, that he will be short.
 Mr. Kron's prospects are deteriorating. He was hoping to plant soybeans on some of his unused corn ground, but hundreds of those acres adjoin the swollen Wabash River. On Monday, the fields started flooding.
 ''I don't know if this is the worst year we've ever had, but it's moving up the list pretty quick,'' the farmer said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Randy Kron, a farmer in Griffin, Ind., on land that was supposed to be a corn field but is now a flooded soy bean crop.
Corn on the Kron farm that should be knee high is only several inches off the ground. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER NEWCOMB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) CHART: BAD OMEN FOR CORN: This year's American corn crop was planted late because of heavy rain and emerged from the ground later than in past years which could lead to midsummer heat damage and lower yields, possibly driving corn prices even higher. (Sources: Bloomberg
 Department of Agriculture) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); SOYBEAN FARMING (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); RICE FARMING (89%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (89%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (78%); MALNUTRITION (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (77%); CORN MARKETS (77%); DROUGHT (77%); FAMILY FARMS (77%); WHEAT MARKETS (77%); RIOTS (66%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (66%)

COMPANY: RICE GROWERS ASSOCIATION OF CALIFORNIA (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311212 RICE MILLING (50%); SIC5153 GRAIN & FIELD BEANS (50%); SIC2044 RICE MILLING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



240 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Ranks of Underinsured Are Rising, Study Finds

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
The number of people in this country who have health insurance but not the ability to afford adequate medical care continues to climb.
 About 25 million Americans -- or approximately one of every five adults younger than age 65 with health insurance -- did not have sufficient coverage last year to shield them from financial hardship if they ended up in the emergency room or were seriously ill, according to a new study to be released on Tuesday by the Commonwealth Fund.
 ''We're moving in a direction where you can be insured all year and still face medical bankruptcy,'' said Cathy Schoen, the study's lead author and a senior vice president for research and evaluation at the Commonwealth Fund, a private foundation in New York specializing in health research. 
 The relentless rise in the cost of medical care, combined with a growing number of insurance plans that require patients to pay a higher portion of their medical bills has led to a 60 percent increase in the number of underinsured adults from 2003 to 2007, according to the study. The Commonwealth Fund first calculated the number of underinsured in 2003 when it estimated that 16 million Americans did not have sufficient coverage. 
 As the nation debates how best to improve its health care system, including how to insure the increasing number of Americans without coverage, policy makers also need to discuss the quality of available coverage, said Karen Davis, the president of the Commonwealth Fund. 
 ''Lack of insurance is only part of the problem, as even the insured have serious gaps in coverage,'' she said. 
 The study, to be published by the medical policy journal Health Affairs, also indicates that the sharpest increase in the underinsured were middle-class families whose coverage still left them vulnerable to medical costs equal to 10 percent more of their incomes. While coverage offered by large companies remains fairly generous, people who try to buy individual policies or who are covered through small companies increasingly must settle for policies that require high deductibles or that sharply limit the benefits as way of reducing the size of the premiums. 
 Like the approximately 50 million uninsured Americans, the underinsured often choose to forgo necessary medical care, the study indicated. Twice as many people who are underinsured said they did not fill a drug prescription or see a recommended specialist for care, the survey found, compared with the number of people who had more generous coverage. They also tend not to get preventive care, choosing not to get mammograms or have their cholesterol checked. 
 ''The underinsured look a lot like the uninsured,'' Ms. Schoen said. ''Disturbingly, even adults with chronic diseases, when underinsured are not filling their prescriptions.''
 Some large companies are already alert to the need to offer health coverage in ways that do not discourage their employees from getting care they might need, she said.
 Pitney Bowes, for example, has found it critical to make sure workers with chronic diseases like asthma or hypertension get the care they need help reduce the odds of their being hospitalized or developing complications that could otherwise be avoided, said Johnna Torsone, the company's chief human resources officer. When Pitney Bowes reduced the amount of co-insurance for asthma medications, for example, it had a 15 percent drop in the annual average cost of care for the disease. 
 ''If people are incented to manage those conditions appropriately, they can be more productive and our costs go down,'' Ms. Torsone said. 
 The Commonwealth study also underscores the need to address the rising cost of health care, which is starting to leave even those in the middle class vulnerable to financial stress, said Len Nichols, a health economist who directs the health policy program for the New America Foundation, a nonprofit group that advocates universal health care.
 ''Cost is central,'' he said. He noted that a national debate is already under way about how best to control medical expenses, through changes in the payment process and better information technology. 
 But as the states seek to improve the insurance market for individuals and small businesses, the Commonwealth study's findings point to the need to also focus on the quality of coverage, Ms. Schoen said. In Massachusetts, for example, the state focused both on making sure that individuals had plans they could purchase and also that the plans provided sufficient coverage. 
 ''They've both lowered the rates of the uninsured and lowered the rates of the underinsured,'' Ms. Schoen said.
 The fund's estimate is based on a survey conducted last year of adults under 65 years old who had insurance throughout the year. Individuals were considered underinsured if their out-of-pocket medical expenses were 10 percent of their income, or 5 percent if they were low-income adults or had insurance deductibles that exceeded 5 percent of their incomes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); FAMILY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); WRITERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CHRONIC DISEASES (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); CHOLESTEROL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



241 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: City Agency Owed Millions On Water Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN; Anthony DePalma contributed reporting.

 BODY:
One of the biggest water bill deadbeats in New York City is the Economic Development Corporation, according to an audit released by the city comptroller's office on Monday. 
 William C. Thompson Jr., the comptroller, said that the corporation had not paid any water or sewer bills for 22 years at the Brooklyn Army Terminal in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, a building of commercial and light industrial space controlled by the corporation. 
 The unpaid bills totaled $4.5 million.
 In a press conference, Mr. Thompson said he was outraged that the agency was so delinquent, not only in failing to pay its bills but also in not contacting the city's Department of Environmental Protection, which runs the water system, since 1989. 
 It was especially galling, he said, that city agencies owed millions for water at a time when rates have increased by double digits in recent years.
 ''Because E.D.C. fell down on the job, all that money is down the drain,'' Mr. Thompson said. 
 As a result of his audit, Mr. Thompson said, the Department of Environmental Protection recently sent a $479,124 bill to the corporation, covering two years in arrears. In an agreement between the City Council and the department, no more than two years were sought.
 Mr. Thompson said that his audit found that the corporation had, during the 2007 fiscal year, reported a net operating income of $7 million -- money that he argued should be turned over to the city. The corporation, which promotes economic growth in the city, has argued that was not legally necessary. 
 After The New York Times reported in December 2006 that the city had failed to collect millions of dollars in overdue water bills, in large part because of poor bookkeeping, the city hired a consultant to find ways to get tough with deadbeat property owners. 
 City water officials have made some progress in reforming the collection process. Mr. Thompson said that he was concerned that many other city agencies were also delinquent in their water bills, and that he had called on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to conduct a citywide review. 
 When asked about the bills, Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the Economic Development Corporation, said in a statement: ''We moved to address this issue in April, and E.D.C. has since brought the account current for the prior two years. Moving forward, D.E.P. will bill E.D.C. quarterly for water consumption at the terminal, which E.D.C. will pay promptly.''
 In The Times's review of city water records, many city and state agencies showed up on the delinquent list. When The Times asked about the governmental deadbeats, the city explained that in the case of city agencies, the water bills were handled as a kind of payment transfer, and sometimes a delay in that process could cause agencies to appear late in payment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); AUDITS (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); CITIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); MAYORS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); WATER CONSUMPTION (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



242 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Surprise Increase in Pending Home Sales

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Pending home sales unexpectedly rose in April to the highest reading since October, an industry group said Monday, but experts said the large proportion of distressed property sales would continue to weigh down prices. 
 The National Association of Realtors' seasonally adjusted index of pending sales for existing homes rose to 88.2, from a March reading of 83.0, the lowest since the index was started in 2001. It was still 13 percent below April 2007's reading of 101.5.
 Wall Street economists polled by Thomson/IFR had predicted the index would remain steady at 83.
 A reading of 100 is equal to the average level of sales activity in 2001.
 A Global Insight economist, Patrick Newport, tempered his enthusiasm for the surprising increase in April's pending sales.
 ''It's good news, but I'm not jumping for joy because I'm not convinced that it's telling us things are picking up,'' he said ''It's telling me that banks are dumping properties at fire sale prices, spurring home sales.''
 Mr. Newport said that inventory remained at record highs and was growing, especially in the West where foreclosures and so-called short sales made up the bulk of deals. In a short sale, the house is sold for less than the amount owed on the mortgage.
 Pending sales there climbed 8.3 percent from March and were 4 percent higher than a year ago.
 Bank-owned properties and short sales in San Diego are also pulling first-time home buyers from the sidelines, said Gregg Neuman, a Prudential real estate agent. Once shut out of the market, buyers now stand to receive a 20 percent discount on these distressed homes, he said.
 ''Bargain hunters have entered the market en masse,'' said the agent association's chief economist, Lawrence Yun, remarking on the increase in pending sales, especially in the most troubled markets.
 In the Midwest, the index jumped 13 percent, while the South index posted a 4.6 percent gain. Only the Northeast index registered a decline, of 1.9 percent.
 The association expects existing home sales to total 5.40 million this year and increase to 5.74 million in 2009.
 The median price is expected to drop 8.4 percent in the first half of the year before stabilizing. Next year, prices will rise 4.4 percent, to $213,900, it estimates.
 Mark Zandi, chief economist for Moody'sEconomy.com, said he believed that April marked the bottom for home sales, but that prices would not bottom out for a year.
 ''It's the beginning of the end of the housing downturn, but it will be a long painful ending,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A foreclosed home being shown to prospective buyers in Orlando, Fla. Strong distressed property sales lifted an index of pending home sales to its best level since October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER COSGROVE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



243 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Spanish Truckers' Fuel Protest Snarls Border With France

BYLINE: By DALE FUCHS and ALAN COWELL. 
Dale Fuchs reported from Madrid, and Alan Cowell from Paris.

DATELINE: MADRID 

 BODY:
Spanish truck drivers began a blockade of their country's border with France on Monday, lining up their rigs and slowing them to a crawl to protest the cost of diesel fuel. 
 The strike blocked the highway in both directions in southwestern France. But the Spanish drivers were not the only ones feeling the price pinch. French drivers slowed traffic near Bordeaux to demand lower fuel prices, offering a foretaste of a national strike planned by French truckers next Monday. Portuguese drivers blocked roads, and in Liege, Belgium, thousands of labor union members demonstrated to protest the rising cost of living as a result of higher fuel costs.
 Fuel prices have been far higher in Europe than in the United States for many years, largely as a result of fuel taxes. Taxes account for at least half the price that motorists pay and sometimes more than 70 percent. 
 But the sustained surge in oil prices has left many Europeans bewildered by the relentless increase in the cost of fuel. Depending on where and how it is bought, the price of diesel -- widely used in private cars as well as by truckers, fishermen and farmers -- can reach the equivalent of almost $9 per gallon.
 Across Spain, about 70,000 truckers joined the strike Monday, according to Desiree Paseiro, a representative of a truckers' association that is threatening to paralyze the country unless the government introduces measures to lower fuel bills. 
 The strike has alarmed many people, who already have begun lining up at gas stations and supermarkets for fear that supplies will be cut. Wholesale food markets like Mercamadrid stocked up on fish and meat over the weekend so their stalls would not be left bare. 
 On Monday morning, groups of slow-moving trucks blocked the major highways that surround Madrid in a so-called snail protest that snarled traffic. Some food distributors fear that their trucks will not be allowed to roll.
 ''We are the ones who move the merchandise that this country needs to function,'' Julio Villascusa, a truckers' representative, told the Cadena Ser radio station on the eve of the strike. ''If we don't have the money to keep buying fuel to offer this public service, well, then, this country comes to a halt.'' 
 Spanish truckers say the price of diesel, which varies among European countries, was the equivalent of $7.73 per gallon, compared with $5.58 per gallon a year ago. At that price, they argue, it costs them more to buy fuel than they earn from trucking contracts.
 Prices at the pump could continue to climb, according to Jeffrey Currie, the global chief of commodities research at Goldman Sachs. At an oil and gas conference in Malaysia on Monday, he said that oil prices were likely to hit $150 a barrel this summer, surpassing the record of $139.12 set last Friday, Reuters reported.
 Spain has been particularly hard hit as soaring fuel prices coincide with the sharpest economic retreat in 15 years. The Spanish government has so far offered loans to the industry, composed principally of small businesses. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Trucks massed at a toll plaza near Barcelona on Monday as drivers joined a nationwide strike against the rising cost of fuel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBERT GEA/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (91%); TRUCK DRIVERS (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); DIESEL FUEL (90%); GAS STATIONS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); FUEL TAX (77%); STRIKES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (64%); COST OF LIVING (55%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (92%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%) FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (93%); SPAIN (92%); BELGIUM (90%); MALAYSIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



244 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BORDER CROSSINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1764 words

HEADLINE: Spain, Grappling With Illegal Immigrants, Tries Forgiveness

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

DATELINE: MADRID 

 BODY:
With the United States riven by calls to legalize millions of illegal immigrants, Americans might consider the possible effects by looking at southern Europe, where illegal immigration abounds and so have forgiveness plans.
 In the last two decades, Spain, Italy, Portugal and Greece have run at least 15 legalization programs, including a Spanish effort three years ago that was among the Continent's largest. With little domestic opposition, Spain legalized nearly 600,000 of the African, Latin American and eastern European workers who helped power its economy and brought this once insular land the strengths and strains of diversity. 
 Immigrants say their prized work cards have brought higher wages, peace of mind and reunions of separated families. But critics say legalizations have attracted more illegal migrants -- with spillover risks to nearby countries -- and warn that an economic slowdown now puts Spain and its foreigners at odds.
 Among the beneficiaries of the legalization policy are Ignacio Cantos and Sandra Delgado, a husband and wife from Ecuador who left four children and an economic crisis in search of Spanish jobs. Legalization has raised their pay and ended their fear of the police, who once jailed Mr. Cantos for lacking work papers. 
 It has also ended their separation from their youngest child, Allan, a gap-toothed 8-year-old sent with his siblings to live with their grandparents when he was 3. Since arriving in Madrid in March, he has been twirling his mother's earrings and stroking her hair as if worried that she is a mirage.
 ''I would never leave my children a second time,'' said Ms. Delgado, 38, a nanny who has been raising others' children while aching for her own. ''I'm sorry I did it.''
 Though both husband and wife favor legalization, they differ on the critics' main complaint -- that ''regularizations'' attract more illegal migrants.
 ''I don't think so,'' said Mr. Cantos, 43, a truck driver who argued that migrants moved out of desperation, not legal expectations. ''I didn't even know what a regularization was.''
 But Ms. Delgado said repeated amnesties could act as a magnet. ''People are thinking they'll be able to get their papers almost immediately,'' she said. 
 The United States has an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, a record number. Its last mass amnesty program, which began in 1987, legalized 2.7 million. President Bush proposed an immigration plan that would give some workers a path to legalization. But it died last year under assault from people who said it would lead to more illegal immigration.
 Europe has held at least 20 legalizations in the past 25 years, giving residency papers to about four million people. Italy and Spain account for about two-thirds of the total, to the consternation of northern Europeans who see the south as the Continent's weak back door. With free movement across much of Europe, legalized immigrants can easily head north, alarming those worried about job competition, welfare costs, cultural clashes or terrorist threats. 
 Southern Europe's tolerance for illegal immigration has several explanations. Its aging populations and booming economies created a need for foreign workers. Its proximity to northern Africa and eastern Europe places it close to countries that supply them. And its economies have traditionally depended more on off-the-books workers.
 No country has run more legalization programs than Spain, which has carried out six since 1985. As recently as a decade ago, immigrants made up less than 2 percent of the population. Now they are more than 10 percent. About 40 percent come from eastern and northern Europe; 38 percent come from Latin America; and 20 percent from Africa.
 Despite the rapid change, until recently there was little political conflict, with legalizations occurring under both conservative and socialist governments. Spain even offers immigrants free health insurance, whether they are legal or not. 
 ''The attitude toward unauthorized migrants is much more relaxed than in the United States,'' said Joaquin Arango, a sociologist at Complutense University in Madrid.
 The acceptance has been attributed to newfound prosperity, the need for workers, the progressive culture of post-Franco Spain and the shared language with Latin Americans, which spares Spain a major source of tension in the United States.
 But with the economy slowing, attitudes appear to be changing. The unemployment rate among foreigners is now 14.7 percent, compared with 8.7 percent among Spaniards. Nearly 40 percent of the recent jump in unemployment has occurred among the foreign-born.
 ''People are starting to say: 'We don't need immigrants. They should return to their country,' '' said Sebastian Salinas, a lawyer with the immigrant rights group Acobe.
 Immigration emerged as an election issue in Spain this year for the first time. Mariano Rajoy, a conservative challenger to Prime Minister Jose Luiz Rodriguez Zapatero, said the 2005 legalization had attracted more illegal immigrants and increased social tensions. ''We are heading toward a situation of enormous problems,'' said Mr. Rajoy, who narrowly lost.
 Likewise, with Italy's economy faltering, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi recently promised a new crackdown on illegal immigrants.
 Mr. Cantos, in moving to Spain, traded one set of problems for another. One of 11 children born to poor farmers, he finished most of high school and landed a job collecting insurance premiums. But he lost it in 1999 when bank runs, a currency plunge and soaring unemployment sent hundreds of thousands of Ecuadorians to Spain, which they could enter without visas at the time. 
 Mr. Cantos joined them in 2001 after borrowing the air fare from a sister in Los Angeles. (She had moved there illegally and become legalized, but warned him that the border was now too dangerous to cross.) He found piecemeal work in Madrid passing out leaflets, and Ms. Delgado, needing money, reluctantly followed.
 Life was miserable. They lived in a two-bedroom apartment with seven other migrants. They went to work fearing arrest. Ms. Delgado had lived in Madrid for two years when Spain put into effect the legalization, which covered only migrants with jobs. Of the 570,000 successful applicants, two-thirds came from five countries: Ecuador (21 percent), Romania (17 percent), Morocco (13 percent), Colombia (8 percent) and Bolivia (7 percent).
 The government argued that underground work reduced tax revenue and gave lawbreaking employers a competitive edge, through lower labor costs. But officials say their main goal was social, not economic.
 ''If you practice exclusion, you risk the future of your country,'' said Jesus Caldera, who ran the program when he was labor minister. ''You risk terrorism, violence.''
 Still, there have been costs. The slowdown in construction has idled Mauricio Velasco, a housepainter from Ecuador, who now draws unemployment benefits. Jorge Salinas brought his mother from Bolivia, but she soon needed a kidney transplant, which the Spanish government provided without charge. His mother, Miriam Vaca, 70, now gets free dialysis treatments three times a week. ''The ambulance comes to get me,'' she said. ''They are very, very kind.''
 French, German and Dutch officials criticized the Spanish move, fearing an increase in illegal immigration that would cross their borders. Some domestic critics said the program also attracted illegal workers dwelling elsewhere in Europe.
 ''They came by land, air and water,'' said Ana Pastor, a legislator fromthe conservative Popular Party. ''There was a massive influx.''
 Lorenzo Cachon, a sociologist at Complutense University, analyzed the program's ''call effect'' by studying municipal records. Most immigrants in Spain, legal or not, register with local governments to obtain benefits like health insurance. Their numbers grew 20 percent the year after the program was announced, compared with 3 percent the year before. 
 ''That means the maximum call effect is 17 percent,'' he said. In practice, he said, much of that growth came from migrants already living in Spain, who registered as part of legalization. ''I consider that a small call effect.''
 He, like most scholars, said migrants were mainly lured by jobs. But the region's history of repeated legalizations, he added, may add to the pull. ''It produces in the imagination of the immigrant the possibility that there might be a regularization,'' he said.
 A 2007 report by the Council of Europe, an organization of European states, concluded that the Spanish program may have had a small ''pull effect'' but called it a ''positive experience from which many European states can learn.''
 For the Cantos family, the program brought an uphill fight. Mr. Cantos paid $1,200 to a lawyer who never filed his application, which he discovered only when stopped by the police. Finding him absent from the list of pending cases, they jailed him overnight and started deportation proceedings.
 Ms. Delgado did get her papers filed, only to discover that her employer failed to sign them. She says her boss ''forgot'' -- drawing quotation marks with her fingers and rolling her eyes -- ''because she knew I wanted to travel back to Ecuador, and she didn't want me to go.'' She won a long appeal, and Mr. Cantos was legalized as her spouse.
 Their combined income quickly rose about 30 percent, as employers had to pay more to keep them. With annual earnings of about $44,000, they make about 20 times what Mr. Cantos made in Ecuador as the family's sole provider.
 Mr. Cantos said legalization had brought him ''a sense of peace,'' as he no longer feared arrest. But Ms. Delgado wears the willed smile of a woman trying to hide her sorrow. Her visit to Ecuador reminded her of how much she had missed of her children's lives. ''You go back and you don't find them the way you left them,'' she said.
 Their income allowed the couple to bring just one child to Spain, and they brought their youngest, Allan. Arriving in March, he found the weather cold, the food strange. Puzzled by his parents' fourth-floor walk-up, he said, ''The houses are high.''
 Fearful of losing his mother again, he grows jealous when his father hugs her. He exploded one night when he heard his parents laughing in the next room.
 ''He ran out of the bathroom and said, 'You two are happier without me!' '' Ms. Delgado said. ''He still asks us to this day, 'Why did you leave us behind?' ''
 With another willed smile, she added, ''We're so happy to have at least one of them back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sandra Delgado, an Ecuadorian immigrant, and her son, Allan, 8, in their apartment in Madrid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOURDES SEGADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%); AMNESTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); FAMILY (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GRANDPARENTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (93%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (94%); ECUADOR (92%); PORTUGAL (88%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (88%); GREECE (73%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



245 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Two Actors' Unions Fight As One Tries for a Deal

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Leaders of the Screen Actors Guild publicly declared war on a fellow actors' union at a Monday rally here, increasing the likelihood of new labor strife in an entertainment industry still recovering from a writers' strike that ended just four months ago.
 Standing outside the union's Wilshire Boulevard headquarters, Alan Rosenberg, president of the 120,000-member guild, urged supporters to reject a tentative deal reached last month between the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists and Hollywood's production companies. 
 ''We are engaged in the battle of our lives,'' Mr. Rosenberg told a group that appeared to number several hundred and included the actors Ed Asner, Keith Carradine, Justine Bateman and Joely Fisher. ''It is essential,'' he added, ''that we vote down that Aftra deal.''
 The crowd responded to the speeches with chants of ''Vote No!'' and bristled with signs opposing the federation's contract.
 About 40,000 of the federation's approximately 70,000 members also belong to the actors' guild. And Aftra's Los Angeles office resides in the same building as SAG's headquarters.
 The federation's deal with the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, which covers about a dozen television series, including ''Cashmere Mafia'' on ABC and ''Curb Your Enthusiasm'' on HBO, was approved by that union's board Friday and is set for a membership vote in coming weeks. 
 SAG leaders, with their own contract set to expire June 30, have accused Aftra of undercutting their efforts for better terms in hotly disputed areas like new media compensation, the mechanism by which actors grant permission to reuse clips from shows in which they appear, and the integration of commercial products in television shows. 
 Mr. Rosenberg and the guild's national executive director, Doug Allen, in a letter dated Thursday, asked Aftra's leaders to delay ratification of their contract because it was ''interfering with SAG's ability to exercise its leverage for the benefit of all actors.'' 
 Roberta Reardon, Aftra's president, and Kim Roberts Hedgpeth, its national executive director, responded on Friday with a letter warning that the federation would view any steps by SAG to interfere with ratification of the deal, reached May 28, as ''a violation of both the law and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. constitution.''
 In a phone interview Monday, Ms. Reardon said she expected to ask the A.F.L-C.I.O. to curtail the guild's campaign. She added that her union's lawyers were reviewing possible legal action. 
 ''It's just unconscionable that one union should start a war against another,'' Ms. Reardon said. ''This simply demonstrates their ineptitude.''
 In an unusually difficult cycle of contract talks, unions representing Hollywood's directors and writers have both reached new deals. But the Writers Guild of America East and the Writers Guild of America West settled only after staging a three-month strike that began last November, and eventually shut down virtually all television dramas, comedies and late-night talk shows.
 In a report issued last week, the Milken Institute, a nonprofit that studies economic and social conditions in California, among other things, said the strike had cost about $2.1 billion in lost output and helped tip the state into recession. Other studies, however, have claimed the economic damage was not as high.
 Echoes of the writers' strike reverberated through Monday's rally, at which dozens of red-shirted writers' union members and staff members joined blue-clad actors' guild supporters. ''Unaccustomed as I am to speaking to crowds with picket signs, I'll have to get used to it,'' Patric M. Verrone, president of the West Coast writers guild, joked in addressing the crowd.
 Many SAG members joined writers during their strike. And writers returned the favor on Monday, resurrecting strike signs that were papered over with a new message: ''WGA loves SAG.''
 Still, Monday's demonstration was relatively small compared with the mass pickets that began the writers' strike, and fell noticeably short of the demonstrations that accompanied a strike by both SAG and Aftra against commercials producers in 2000.
 The two unions, which previously bargained jointly, went their separate ways this year. Aftra's leaders chose to pattern many points in its new deal on new contracts with the writers and directors, while SAG's leaders have been striving to better those agreements.
 The producers' alliance declined through a spokesman to comment on Monday's rally. Negotiators for the alliance and the guild resumed talks at an afternoon session.
 At the rally, SAG's leaders were careful to avoid any specific call for a strike, and at least twice told the crowd that a vote against Aftra's new contract would simply reopen bargaining.
 Uncertainty over SAG's intentions has already assured what many have called a ''de facto strike'' beginning in late June, because studios have avoided scheduling movie shoots that would be disrupted by a guild decision to walk out. The guild has not conducted a strike authorization vote, and could instruct members to keep working under terms of its old contract even if a new deal is not reached by month's end.
 On Monday Mr. Allen called rejection of Aftra's pact a way to send a signal to the producers' alliance. ''We are not done yet! We are not done yet!'' Mr. Allen said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alan Rosenberg, the president of the Screen Actors Guild, right, addressing the union and its supporters in Los Angeles. He urged rejection of a tentative deal struck by another actors' union. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RIC FRANCIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (95%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); APPROVALS (65%); LITIGATION (63%)

COMPANY: MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (91%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION & RADIO ARTISTS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



246 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: S. Korean Cabinet Offers to Quit After Beef Protests

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
South Korea's entire cabinet offered to resign on Tuesday as President Lee Myung-bak struggled to find a breakthrough in the biggest political crisis to face his young government, one set off by fears that an agreement to reopen markets to American beef could expose the public to mad cow disease.
 Prime Minister Han Seung-soo and other cabinet members submitted their resignations to Mr. Lee hours before tens of thousands of South Koreans were scheduled to rally in downtown Seoul in what organizers said would be the largest demonstration to be held against the president and his 107-day-old government. 
 For the past 40 days, downtown Seoul has been rocked daily by demonstrations. What had started as a rally by hundreds of teenage students holding candles to protest the importing of American beef has evolved into a broad demonstration against government policies, with students, homemakers and workers chanting ''Out with Lee Myung-bak!'' 
 On Tuesday Cho Hang-nam, a spokesman for Mr. Han, said, ''The prime minister offered the resignations on behalf of cabinet members when he met President Lee this morning.'' 
 Comment from Mr. Lee's office was not immediately available.
 On Monday Mr. Lee sent a delegation to Washington to help diffuse the crisis and seek assurances that the United States would not export beef from cattle older than 30 months, even though that is allowed under an agreement reached with the United States in April. Younger cattle are believed to be less susceptible to mad cow disease.
 The offer of resignations from Mr. Lee's cabinet, coupled with an earlier offer by his top aides to resign, opens the way for him to overhaul his government for a new beginning as he desperately tries to arrest his plummeting approval ratings.
 Mr. Lee won the presidency in December with the biggest margin of victory in decades. But his popularity has plunged below 20 percent since his government agreed to open the domestic markets to beef from the United States despite deep-rooted public fear that American beef may not be safe from mad cow disease.
 The agreement came as Mr. Lee championed a new ''pragmatic'' approach to relations with the United States. The alliance between Washington and Seoul had shown signs of strain under Mr. Lee's predecessor, Roh Moo-hyun, who was often accused of stoking and capitalizing on young South Koreans' nationalistic and often anti-American sentiments. 
 Mr. Lee hoped his decision to end the five-year-old ban on American beef would help win United States Congressional support for a free trade agreement between the countries. Congressional leaders have warned that they will never ratify the pact unless South Korea fully opens its market to American beef.
 Thousands of South Korean students immediately took to the streets, followed by a broader uproar. The protesters called the agreement a ''humiliating'' concession that they said came under American pressure and in disregard of Koreans' health concern.
 As Mr. Lee, nicknamed ''the bulldozer,'' refused to accept the snowballing demands for renegotiation, demonstrations grew. They became the platform for a wide range of grievances against the conservative leader's policies, particularly from left-leaning groups and labor unions. 
 Mr. Lee's blunders in appointing people with doubtful ethical standards to his presidential staff only compounded his trouble. He himself was dogged by allegations of corruption during the election campaign, but voters largely overlooked the claims, betting instead that Mr. Lee, a famed business chief executive, would be able to revive the economy.
 But his current trouble shows that South Koreans' patience was wearing thin.
 It remains unclear how many cabinet members he will replace.
 Meanwhile, the police went on their highest alert on Tuesday, establishing barricades with buses and shipping containers across roads leading to the presidential Blue House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIGNATIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); BEEF (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); MEATS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (93%); HAN SEUNG-SOO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



247 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: When the Venezuelan President Goes Over the Line, and Realizes It

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
 President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela started this month as the most prominent political supporter of Colombia's largest rebel group and a fierce defender of his own overhaul of his nation's intelligence services. But in the space of a few hours over the weekend, he confounded his critics by switching course on both contentious policies. 
 In doing so, Mr. Chavez displayed a willingness for self-reinvention that has served him well in times of crisis throughout his long political career. Time and again, he has gambled by pushing brash positions and policies, then shifted to a more moderate course when the consequences seemed too dire. 
 And while Mr. Chavez has been accused of speaking like an autocrat and of trying to rule like one, his recent actions confirm that Venezuela's democracy, however fragile it may seem at times, still serves as a check on the president's wishes. 
 Few issues illustrated the resilience of dissent in Venezuela like the debate around Mr. Chavez's intelligence law, which would have abolished the secret police and military intelligence and replaced them with new intelligence and counterintelligence agencies. Drafted in secret and enacted through a presidential decree, the breadth of the law shocked Mr. Chavez's political opposition. 
 The law would have forced judges in Venezuela to support the intelligence services and required citizens to cooperate with community-monitoring groups, provoking widespread fears that the government wanted to follow Cuba in creating a societywide network of informants whose main purpose was to nip antigovernment activities in the bud. 
 Henry Rangel Silva, the head of the secret police, appeared on state television to defend the law, but ended up making matters worse when he acknowledged that his spies were already tracking political candidates, a revelation that appeared to reinforce concerns that the aim of the intelligence overhaul was to quash challenges to Mr. Chavez's rule, which is settling into its 10th year. 
 The uproar in reaction to the law was intense, coming from human rights groups, news organizations, Roman Catholic leaders and, of course, editorial cartoonists who immediately labeled the law with a name that stuck, ''the Getsapo Law,'' a play on the words Gestapo and sapo, which literally means frog in Spanish but in Venezuelan slang translates as snitch. 
 With regional elections scheduled this year, Mr. Chavez may have wanted to limit the potential damage of the backlash to his Socialist party's candidates. But he may also have recognized a good time to withdraw a law that, in his own words, had passages that were ''indefensible.'' Mr. Chavez convened a commission to rewrite the most polemical parts of the law. 
 ''Chavez has incredible political instincts,'' said Fernando Coronil, a Venezuelan historian at the University of Michigan. ''He has shown to have had, with few exceptions, the pulse of the country, to read its changing political mood better than anyone else.''
 That said, Mr. Chavez has seemed tone deaf to that mood at times. In December, voters narrowly rejected his broad constitutional overhaul that would have vastly expanded his powers. But Mr. Chavez has proved astute enough to know when his policies do not find enough support, as when he recently withdrew a Socialist-inspired school curriculum and an increase in bus fares.
 Indeed, the national temperament is now much less buoyant than in December 2006, when voters re-elected Mr. Chavez to a six-year term, and his handlers may have recognized the shift. Despite record oil prices, economic growth is slowing and inflation is soaring. The nationalization of telephone, electricity, oil and steel companies has scared off foreign investment. While shortages of some items have eased, many basic food items remain in short supply. 
 Amid these woes, propaganda billboards with the president's image have become much less ubiquitous on the streets of Caracas than just six months ago, as if to deflate his cult of celebrity a bit. 
 Mr. Chavez's shift in his policy on the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, to the point of calling on them to end their guerrilla war, suggests a similar ability to recognize when some of his gambles are not paying off. Claims have mounted in recent weeks that Mr. Chavez's government tried to provide financing and arms to the FARC, accusations adamantly denied by Venezuela. 
 But in the face of the recent killing of several FARC commanders, coupled with Colombia's capture of a Venezuelan military officer accused of providing ammunition to the FARC, Mr. Chavez may have recognized that his call for other countries to recognize the guerrillas as a legitimate force was potentially isolating for Venezuela, especially if proof emerged of military or financial support for the rebels. That could have serious economic consequences, including American sanctions on trade, a thorny issue for both countries given Venezuela's position as a leading supplier of oil to the United States. 
 Some of Mr. Chavez's critics say he may have had his international standing in mind, with the FARC increasingly viewed as a marginalized force both militarily and ideologically. ''Chavez's change of tactics is a way for him to buy his way out of a situation in which Colombia presents a case against him in a venue like the Organization of American States,'' said Diego E. Arria, a former Venezuelan envoy to the United Nations. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 11, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A news analysis article on Tuesday about policy reversals by President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela mistranslated part of a nickname that critics use to describe his proposed intelligence agency reform, which they say will force people to spy on each other. As the article noted, the nickname, ''the Getsapo Law,'' is a play on the words Gestapo and sapo, which as slang means snitch. But sapo literally translates as toad -- not frog.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POLITICS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ESPIONAGE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); RELIGION (63%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); COLOMBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



248 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Bush Talks Up Dollar As He Heads to Europe

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush, departing Monday for a weeklong trip to Europe, promised to stress ''our nation's commitment to a strong dollar'' -- a signal that, amid soaring oil prices and worrisome inflation, the White House is joining with the Federal Reserve in calling for an end to the dollar's slump.
 The president's statement was meant as a signal to Americans that Mr. Bush's trip was to be focused not just on distant concerns, but also on the economy at home. 
 Mr. Bush's comments at the White House also appeared to be aimed at reassuring European leaders increasingly upset about the dollar's decline, particularly against the euro. Some European leaders are calling for coordinated intervention in the currency markets to keep it from falling farther.
 But despite talking up the dollar from the White House, there was no sign that the administration was about to intervene in the currency markets, which are driven by, among other things, the relative strength or weakness of national economies. The administration has opposed such interventions.
 Nevertheless, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., in an interview on CNBC on Monday, did not rule out a currency intervention as a matter of principle. ''I would never take intervention off the table or any policy tool off the table,'' he said. ''I just can't speculate about what we will or won't do.''
 Mr. Bush's comments were the clearest indication that the administration was increasingly nervous that a declining dollar was contributing to higher prices for oil, which is generally bought and sold with dollars. These higher prices, in turn, threaten the chances of an American economic recovery.
 Over the last week, there has been a steady stream of statements backing the need for a strong dollar from administration officials and, perhaps more crucially, from Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve.
 The Fed has backed its support for a stronger dollar by signaling a pause in cutting interest rates. A lower interest rate weakens the value of the dollar as investors dump low-yielding American securities in favor of higher yielding securities in Europe. 
 Last week, Mr. Bernanke promised that ''in collaboration with our colleagues at the Treasury,'' the Fed would ''carefully monitor'' currency rates and would be ''attentive to the implications of changes in the value of the dollar for inflation and inflation expectations.''
 His comments were accepted in currency markets as reinforcement of the Fed's intention not to lower interest rates farther. At the end of last week, however, the European Central Bank signaled that it might raise interest rates. That in itself sent the dollar down at the end of the week.
 Mr. Bush spoke on Monday before the opening bell on Wall Street, with investors still nervous about what would follow Friday's steep decline in the stock market. The market posted moderate gains, with the Dow Jones industrial average closing up 70 points, or about 0.6 percent. The dollar also improved slightly against the euro. And oil, which is priced in dollars, fell $4.19, or 3 percent, to $134.35 a barrel in New York futures trading.
 Apart from reassuring jittery markets, Mr. Bush may have had political considerations in mind, both domestic and foreign. 
 The last time Mr. Bush went to Europe, in April, some Republicans faulted him for looking out of touch on the economy. This week's trip, with glamorous cities like Berlin, Rome, London and Paris on the itinerary, is already being characterized by his critics as a summer vacation while gasoline rises above $4 a gallon and Americans feel the pinch at grocery stores.
 ''A lot of Americans are concerned about our economy,'' the president said. ''I can understand why. Gasoline prices are high; energy prices are high.'' He said the White House would be ''monitoring the situation.''
 The phrase ''monitoring the situation'' -- similar to the formula issued by the Fed -- is meant to signal that various authorities will be prepared to act in the future if needed, but is not necessarily a sign of imminent action.
 Mr. Paulson has repeatedly emphasized that the best way to strengthen the dollar is not to intervene but to stabilize financial markets and restore the American economy. Echoing Mr. Bush, Mr. Paulson is also arguing that the distribution of stimulus checks will help to bolster consumer spending.
 But European leaders are increasingly impatient about the weak dollar, which is hurting their economies because Europe depends more on exports than does the United States. 
 In his remarks about the dollar, Mr. Bush employed new language about the importance of a strong dollar, acknowledging that he was aware of European sentiments, by saying, ''A strong dollar is in our nation's interests. It's in the interests of the global economy.''
 Some critics of the Bush administration argued that the president was trying to send a signal that, after months of taking a laissez-faire approach to the falling dollar, the White House might well act in the future.
 ''I think the feeling is that that's gone far enough,'' said Bruce Bartlett, a Republican economist who was a domestic policy adviser to President Reagan and who has been a tough critic of Mr. Bush's economic policies. ''But the key thing here is that you can only talk so much. At some point you have to have some actions.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: ONE DOLLAR IN EUROS (Source: Bloomberg) The value of the dollar dropping against the Euro. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INTEREST RATES (87%); INTERVIEWS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); EURO (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BEN BERNANKE (59%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



249 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2376 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 10, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 IRAN'S LEADER TELLS IRAQ
 U.S. Forces Are the Problem
 Iran's supreme leader told Iraq's prime minister that the American forces in Iraq are the biggest obstacle to Iraqi stability. The message from the Iranian leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was the most authoritative public word to date on Iran's objections to long-term security agreements under negotiation between the Bush administration and the Iraqi government. PAGE A11 
 GERMANY PREPARES TO GREET BUSH
 When Chancellor Angela Merkel plays host to President Bush this week, Mr. Bush will use the time to talk about the Middle East, energy security and, above all, Iran's nuclear program. Some German diplomatic experts are playing down the importance of the visit, saying that Mr. Bush is already a lame-duck leader and the German media and public are already looking past him. Others say that there are issues to be discussed that cannot wait until next year. ''Everybody's concentrating on the incoming president and not on the president in office, which I think is a mistake,'' said the coordinator of German-American cooperation in the Foreign Ministry. PAGE A7 
 SPAIN'S TRUCKERS PROTEST FUEL PRICES
 Spanish truck drivers began a blockade of their country's border with France, lining up their rigs and slowing them to a crawl to protest the cost of diesel fuel. The strike blocked the highway in both directions in southwestern France. The protest turned ugly when would-be strike-breakers in Spain found their windshields and headlights smashed and their tires slashed. French drivers also slowed traffic, near Bordeaux, to demand lower fuel prices. PAGE A6 
 OPEN SEARCH URGED FOR RIGHTS POST
 The advertisement that appeared on The Economist magazine's web site sought candidates for the position of United Nations high commissioner for human rights. But it was a fake, a protest paid for by Avaaz.org, an online advocacy group. The organization is among a number of human rights groups, United Nations diplomats and other watchdog groups critical of what they call the lack of transparency in selecting the next commissioner, one of the highest-profile jobs in the United Nations hierarchy. PAGE A9 
 TUBERCULOSIS DENTS AIDS GAINS
 Inadequate attention to the spread of tuberculosis is undermining recent gains made against the AIDS virus, United Nations officials said. Tuberculosis and AIDS are now epidemics in many areas of the world and the two infectious diseases must be addressed together, said the officials who spoke from the United Nations' first high-level meeting on the interaction of the two diseases. PAGE A9 
 Indonesian Crackdown on Sect A9 
 Virtual Golf Craze in South Korea A8 
 National
 BUSH ORDERS COMPLIANCE
 With Immigration Check System
 An executive order signed by President Bush has ordered federal contractors to participate in the Department of Homeland Security's electronic system, known as E-Verify, for verifying the legal immigration status of their workers. The move is greatly expanding the reach of the administration's crackdown on employers that hire illegal immigrants, and the status checks apply to all workers, including American citizens. PAGE A14 
 TACKLING 'MODEL MINORITY' IMAGE
 A new report by New York University, the College Board and a commission of mostly Asian-American educators and community leaders pokes holes in stereotypes about Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders as high achievers. The report goes to say that the term ''Asian-American'' is broad, and that the SAT scores of Asian-Americans tend to correlate with the income and educational level of their parents, like those of other Americans. PAGE A18 
 RACE AND MEDICAL TREATMENT
 A new study of diabetes patients has found stark racial disparities in the treatment of black and white patients -- even by the same doctors. The lead author of the study said in an interview that he attributed the differences less to overt racism that to the likelihood that physicians did not tailor treatments to patients' cultural norms. ''It's that we're doing the same thing for every patient and not accounting for individual needs,'' he said. PAGE A16
 OVERHAULING THE AIR FORCE CULTURE
 When he ousted two of the Air Force's top leaders last week, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates was also trying to quash a mind-set of exceptionalism that put the Air Force above the rest of the military. It is a culture of superiority that even the staunchest advocates of air power say the branch suffers from, a mind-set that deflects criticism rather than embraces it. PAGE A20 
 MAJOR FLOODING IN MIDWEST
 A storm system dumped heavy rain on parts of the Midwest, resulting in severe flooding in Indiana, Iowa and Wisconsin, where already swollen rivers and lakes overflowed their banks, broke through dams and created havoc for thousands of residents. Over the weekend, the storms were responsible for 10 deaths in 4 states, but new fatalities were reported on Monday. PAGE A14 
 Business
 FED TRIES TO PREVENT ANOTHER BEAR STEARNS
 The Federal Reserve moved to overhaul the financial apparatus behind derivatives trading, a move aimed at making sure the failure of a major bank or investment firm would not create the systemic threat seen after the collapse of Bear Stearns. Currently, there is no central clearinghouse for derivatives trading, and a default by a major party could lead to cascading losses at big banks and brokerage firms -- a possibility that made many on Wall Street uneasy. PAGE C1 
 EVERYONE'S AN EXPERT
 The Transportation Security Administration's new plan hopes to speed up airport screening by asking passengers to choose a line based on their familiarity with checkpoint procedures. But there's a little snag in the idea in practice. ''He gets up there, doesn't have his license out, has bottles over three ounces, they were not in the plastic bags,'' one passenger said of a fellow traveler in the ''expert'' line. ''It was almost like watching a 'Saturday Night Live' skit.'' PAGE C1 
 FEWER PLANES, SAME OLD DELAYS
 Fuel costs means fewer planes in the sky. That should mean fewer delays, right? The Federal Aviation Administration says that air traffic will continue to be congested in the normal places, as airlines contract their flying schedules in less-busy cities, and landing slots at busy airports will, for the most part, continue to be fully used. Most industry experts say the cuts in service will be short-term. PAGE C9 
 A JUDICIAL STARING CONTEST
 The United States Supreme Court has twice vacated a $79.5 million punitive damage award to a smoker's widow against the cigarette maker Philip Morris -- and the Supreme Court of Oregon has twice reinstated it. Now the justices are set to begin reviewing the case for a third time, and they seem less concerned with making law than with asserting their own authority over that of state courts on the issue of punitive damages. PAGE C2 
 Crude Oil Prices Fall C11 
 Major Changes at Los Angeles Times C6 
 METRO 
 STUDY URGES POLICE TO USE TASERS BEFORE FIREARMS
 Police recruits and veteran officers could benefit from more frequent firearms training and a wider use of Taser stun guns, according to a study of the New York Police Department's shooting habits. The study, by the RAND Corporation, was commissioned in January 2007, about seven weeks after a Queens man, Sean Bell, died in a hail of 50 police bullets. Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said at the time that questions about the department's effectiveness and training required an independent review. PAGE B1 
 Arts
 NOTHING TO SEE HERE. JUST DOING RESEARCH.
 Andre Dubus III's latest novel, ''The Garden of Last Days,'' is based in large part on the story of one of the men believed to be part of the attacks on 9/11. The hijackers reportedly spent the day before at local strip clubs in Miami, and so, in doing his diligent research for the book, Mr. Dubus rented a convertible, enlisted his brother and best friend from high school -- large men whom nobody messes with -- and had an awkward conversation with his wife: ''Honey, I need to go to Florida and I need to see some strip clubs.'' PAGE E1 
 ME TALK CREEPY ONE DAY
 David Sedaris became famous by finding the comic nugget in the experiences of friends and family, then carving and polishing them into a shiny, funny anecdote (with the possible help of a little embellishment). Michiko Kakutani says that in his latest outing, ''When You Are Engulfed in Flames,'' he reverts from the progress he was making toward becoming a full-fledged memoirist by focusing on encounters with some of the distasteful people with whom he crossed paths. PAGE E7 
 TARGETING (VERY YOUNG) WOMEN
 After the boffo box office success of ''Sex and the City: The Movie'' -- perhaps you've heard of it -- another film plans to capitalize on the masses of female viewers at the multiplex. This one, called ''Kit Kittredge,'' is based on the popular line of American Girl dolls, and though its audience skews decidedly younger than ''Sex'' and its content is not at all racy, the film's producers (Julia Roberts, among them) hope that it can attract that same kind of intense niche audience. PAGE E1 
 STILL HAUNTING THE SCREEN
 Sophia Loren and Catherine Deneuve, two divas who represent two very different cinematic traditions, are being honored by Lionsgate Entertainment with boxed sets of some of their seldom-seen work. Dave Kehr notes that the box sets illustrate the quandary several directors had in figuring how to use the actresses' singular physical gifts: playing Galatea come to life or the Most Beautiful Woman in the World, while glamorous, were seldom interesting roles. PAGE E1 
 Science
 KEEPING TABS ON 
 A Hardy Ocean Elder
 The horseshoe crab's clumsy demeanor belies an efficient architecture that has remained the same for almost 445 million years. Experts from Florida to Maine are keeping a close eye on the hardy ocean elder this spawning season to see if their suspicions are correct: that overharvesting for use as fishing bait has caused the crab's population to crash. If true, it could have a devastating impact on the many contemporary life forms that depend on the horseshoe crab for survival. PAGE F1 
 ILLUSIONS ILLUMINATE BRAIN ACTIVITY
 Staring at a pattern meant to evoke an optical illusion is usually an act of idle curiosity, akin to palm reading or astrology. But brain researchers today call the illusions perceptual, not optical, because the entire visual system is involved, and using optical illusions as a research tool, scientists can learn more about how the brain is able to anticipate. In the current issue of the journal Cognitive Science, researchers at the California Institute of Technology and the University of Sussex argue that the brain's adaptive ability to see into the near future creates many common illusions. PAGE F5 
 THOSE PEONIES ARE SO CLIQUEISH
 Can plants have social lives? Consider the Great Lakes sea rocket, which gives preferential treatment to plants it is related to by restraining itself from aggressively grabbing the nutrients in the soil when it detects a related plant nearby. It is the latest insight into the life of plants, many of which have the capacity to sense things about the plants around them and use that information to interact. PAGE F1 
 A LOOK AT SAME-SEX UNIONS
 Some researchers hope that many of the most vexing problems in monogamous relationships between men and women are not rooted in biological differences between men and women. So they looked at same-sex marriages in Vermont and found them more likely to be egalitarian than heterosexual marriages -- suggesting that the inequality of heterosexual marriages can take a toll. PAGE F1 
 Obituaries
 WARREN A. CROLL JR., 88
 A Hall of Fame horse trainer, he won the 1987 Belmont Stakes with Bet Twice and trained four thoroughbred champions. The best of his horses may have been Holy Bull, who was undefeated as a 2-year-old named 1994 Horse of the Year and champion 3-year-old. PAGE B8 
 Sports
 IN N.B.A. FINALS,
 A Contrast in Temperaments
 In jumping out to a two-game lead in the N.B.A. Finals, the Boston Celtics have looked as fraternal as they have been functional, exchanging long embraces before the game starts. The Los Angeles Lakers, for their part, have appeared out of sorts. Is the intensity of their superstar, Kobe Bryant, making his young teammates fearful of him? Harvey Araton, Sports of the Times. PAGE D2 
 PICKING UP THE PIECES
 A tornado in Parkersburg, Iowa, in May, killed eight people and destroyed the Aplington-Parkersburg High School. Somewhat improbably of only 240 students, four of its former football players now make their living in the N.F.L. and are helping the school's head coach, Ed Thomas, attempt to rebuild the school and its football team in time for its home opener in September. ''I told the kids, you're going to be better people because of this,'' Mr. Thomas said. PAGE D1 
 Editorial
 THREATENING IRAN
 Israeli leaders spent last week talking tough about Iran and threatening possible military action. The United States and the other major powers need to address Tehran's nuclear ambitions, but with more assertive diplomacy, not more threats or war planning. PAGE A22
 HIDDEN DRUG PAYMENTS AT HARVARD
 Three prominent psychiatrists at Harvard Medical School have been caught vastly underreporting their income from drug companies. Their failure to divulge their conflicts is striking proof that today's requirements for reporting payments from industry need to be strengthened. PAGE A22
 HELP THE PARKS
 Between the summer recess and the fall's campaigning, we fear that the rest of the legislative year will be wasted. One piece of legislation that deserves a serious push is the National Parks Centennial Initiative. PAGE A22
 Op-Ed
 DAVID BROOKS
 The country's moral guardians are forever looking for decadence out of Hollywood and reality TV. But the most rampant decadence today is financial decadence, the trampling of decent norms about how to use and harness money. PAGE A23
 BOB HERBERT
 Hardly anyone is paying attention to the four million young people, ages 16 to 24, who are out of school, out of work and often out of hope. PAGE A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); AIDS & HIV (86%); TUBERCULOSIS (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); STRIKES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (75%); VANDALISM (71%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); VIRUSES (70%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); DIESEL FUEL (66%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (65%); EPIDEMICS (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%); ANGELA MERKEL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); GERMANY (94%); SPAIN (92%); FRANCE (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



250 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: Obama, Adopting Economic Theme, Criticizes McCain

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Michael Cooper contributed reporting from New York, and David M. Herszenhorn and Carl Hulse from Washington.

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C. 

 BODY:
With the Democratic stage to himself for the first time, Senator Barack Obama opened a two-week tour of battleground states on Monday, attacking Senator John McCain's economic policies and moving to focus on the ailing economy as the central theme of the general election campaign.
 In his most pointed and sustained attack on Mr. McCain's economic agenda, Mr. Obama said that a McCain presidency would be a continuation of President Bush's faltering economic policies. And he highlighted his own proposals to aid economically beleaguered Americans: tax cuts for middle-income families and retirees, a $50 billion economic stimulus package, expansion of unemployment benefits, and relief for homeowners facing foreclosure.
 The address, at the North Carolina State Fairgrounds, pushed for a more active government role in restoring the nation's economic health and aiding distressed families, setting up a stark contrast with Mr. McCain, who has proposed tax cuts for corporations and other tax reductions to spur the economy. But while Mr. Obama has tried to link Mr. McCain's economic policies to Mr. Bush, Mr. McCain has departed from the president by calling for a greater government role in helping homeowners. 
 Mr. Obama's speech started a two-week tour that points to his campaign's view of the primary November battlegrounds. Monday's speech was in North Carolina, which has long backed Republican presidential candidates but which has a large black population, and Mr. Obama will be traveling to Florida, Missouri, Pennsylvania and Ohio to press the economic theme.
 In his remarks Monday, he spoke of hard-pressed workers in Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin struggling to pay their bills and buy gasoline. And he laid the blame squarely at the feet of President Bush and his allies, including Senator McCain.
 ''We did not arrive at the doorstep of our current economic crisis by some accident of history,'' Mr. Obama said here to 900 invited guests, a relatively small audience for him. ''This was not an inevitable part of the business cycle that was beyond our power to avoid. It was the logical conclusion of a tired and misguided philosophy that has dominated Washington for far too long.''
 He added a moment later: ''We were promised a fiscal conservative. Instead, we got the most fiscally irresponsible administration in history. And now John McCain wants to give us another. Well, we've been there once. We're not going back.''
 Leading Congressional Democrats indicated on Monday that they planned to work hand-in-glove with the Democratic standard-bearer on a range of economic issues, including gas prices and increasing joblessness.
 On Monday, House Democrats said they intended to force a separate vote this week -- possibly Thursday -- on extending unemployment benefits for those whose aid is running out.
 Though President Bush and many Republicans in Congress have resisted the extra benefits, Democrats say they believe that rising unemployment will strengthen their hand and provide political ammunition should the president veto the bill.
 And on Tuesday, the Senate will vote on whether to take up a package of energy initiatives that includes a new tax on so-called windfall profits of big oil companies and provisions to reduce speculation in oil futures, which some analysts say have contributed to price increases.
 In a conference call with reporters on Monday, Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, echoed Mr. Obama when he said, ''People understand that, as these energy prices go through the roof, as the stock market craters, as we have the highest unemployment figure increase in recent years, the Bush economic policies have failed.''
 And Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, who is leading the campaign effort of Senate Democrats, said coordinated messages by Mr. Obama and the Democratic majority in Congress would yield big gains in November. ''We in the Senate relish the opportunity to work with Senator Obama,'' Mr. Schumer said in the call. ''Now that the primary season is over, there is going to be a clear voice.''
 Democratic Congressional leaders and Howard Dean, the party chairman, also set a joint press conference for Tuesday afternoon to lay out the party's economic policies and to try to draw a contrast with Mr. McCain.
 Mr. McCain, who attended fund-raising events in Washington and Virginia on Monday, issued a statement criticizing Mr. Obama's approach.
 ''While hard-working families are hurting and employers are vulnerable, Barack Obama has promised higher income taxes, Social Security taxes, capital gains taxes, dividend taxes and tax hikes on job-creating businesses,'' a McCain spokesman, Tucker Bounds, said in a statement issued before Mr. Obama's remarks. ''Barack Obama doesn't understand the American economy, and that's change we just can't afford.''
 Mr. Obama's address came as many Americans were grappling with gasoline prices of more than $4 a gallon and a weakening employment picture. Before Mr. Obama spoke, Pamela Cash-Roper, an unemployed nurse, told of the economic pain caused by family medical crises. Mrs. Cash-Roper, who described herself as a lifelong Republican, said she had turned to the government for help, ''but help was nowhere to be seen.'' She said she supported Mr. Obama because he had been working for ''hard-working Americans like us for more than two decades.''
 The pieces of the economic program Mr. Obama laid out on Monday were not new, but the context was. This is the first full week of the general election campaign, and the candidates are beginning what promises to be an intense fight over the economy and the Iraq war. Mr. Obama, by focusing on economic issues, was trying to move those concerns ahead of Iraq and national security matters, where Mr. McCain has more experience. 
 Mr. Obama proposed a number of short-term measures to relieve the hardships of American families and rescue the economy from the brink of recession.
 In addition to his proposal for $50 billion more in immediate stimulus programs and relief for homeowners facing foreclosure, he proposed new rules to prevent mortgage and credit card fraud and tax reductions for middle-income families and retirees.
 He said he would preserve Social Security by requiring higher payments from the wealthy. He vowed to resist all efforts to privatize the program or raise the retirement age. He also vowed to repeal the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest citizens and noted that Mr. McCain had originally opposed the Bush tax breaks because, as Mr. Obama put it in a rare verbal slip, they were ''too skewered'' to the rich.
 Obama advisers said the new programs would be paid for by a combination of tax increases, elimination of waste and savings from the reduction of American troops in Iraq. Mr. Obama has said in the past that he would allow the tax cuts enacted in the Bush administration to expire and impose higher taxes on some investment income.
 Senator Richard M. Burr, a North Carolina Republican who supports Mr. McCain, said in a conference call Monday afternoon that Mr. Obama was simply casting blame for the nation's economic woes and making promises he could not pay for. ''I think the speech we heard today is what the American people are sick and tired of,'' Mr. Burr said.
 Mr. Obama posed the choice between him and Mr. McCain as a fundamental one between the future and the past, the ground on which he hopes to fight the campaign.
 ''That is the choice we face right now,'' Mr. Obama said. ''A choice between more of the same policies that have widened inequality, added to our debt and shaken the foundation of our economy, or change that will restore balance to our economy, that will invest in the ingenuity and innovation of our people, that will fuel a bottom-up prosperity to keep America strong and competitive in the 21st century.''
 ''It is not an argument between left or right, liberal or conservative, to say that we have tried it their way for eight long years and it has failed,'' he added. ''It is time to try something new. It is time for a change.''
 Mr. Obama praised Mr. McCain's years of military and government service, but his generosity quickly gave way to an assault on Mr. McCain's economic theories and credentials.
 ''John McCain and I have a fundamentally different vision of where to take the country,'' Mr. Obama said ''Because for all his talk of independence, the centerpiece of his economic plan amounts to a full-throated endorsement of George Bush's policies. He says we've made great progress in our economy these past eight years. He calls himself a fiscal conservative, and on the campaign trail he's a passionate critic of government spending, and yet he has no problem spending hundreds of billions of dollars on tax breaks for big corporations and a permanent occupation of Iraq -- policies that have left our children with a mountain of debt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama shifted his campaign's focus to the general election, and to the economy, in a speech Monday in Raleigh, N.C. It was the first day of a two-week tour of contested states. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM R. BOUNDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); FAMILY (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); FORECLOSURE (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (90%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



251 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: As Losses Mount, the Fed and the White House Step Up Derivatives Trading Is Scrutinized

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve moved Monday to overhaul the financial apparatus behind derivatives trading, a regulatory step intended to assure that the failure of a major bank or investment firm would not create the systemic threat seen in March after the collapse of Bear Stearns.
 Timothy F. Geithner, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and one of the chief architects of the Bear Stearns bailout, convened a meeting of 17 major financial institutions Monday afternoon to discuss creating a central system for the trading and settlement of credit derivatives, a sophisticated type of financial instrument. 
 Because no central clearinghouse currently exists for derivatives trading, a default by a major party could lead to cascading losses at big banks and brokerage firms. Fears about this so-called counterparty risk have rattled nerves on Wall Street amid a worsening credit crisis.
 Participants at the meeting, which included every major investment bank, also agreed to register their trades with a computerized system that would allow for nearly instantaneous recording.
 An announcement of larger-than-expected quarterly losses at Lehman Brothers contributed to a bleak mood on Wall Street on Monday, where bankers watched financial stocks, which had rallied from five-year lows after the Bear rescue, fall below their March lows. 
 In another sign of uneasiness, interest rates soared on two-year Treasuries, with yields rising more than a third of a percentage point. It was the largest gain for the two-year rate since 1996. 
 The leap in the yield meant that investors were selling off their Treasury holdings in anticipation of the Fed raising interest rates in the latter half of the year. Some forecasters predict that inflation will worsen on the back of high oil prices, prompting the Fed to increase rates in an effort to cool off price increases. 
 While a rate increase is far from certain, Fed officials have emphasized concerns over inflation in recent days. Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed's chairman, told a conference on Cape Cod Monday night that the Fed ''will strongly resist an erosion of longer-term inflation expectations'' in light of higher commodity prices, which he said had ''added to the upside risks to inflation.'' 
 Mr. Bernanke said last month's spike in unemployment had not affected his optimistic forecast for the economy, which he said was likely to ''avoid a substantial downturn'' and slowly recover in the second half of the year. 
 Mr. Geithner, speaking in Midtown Manhattan, also expressed concern, saying that foreign central banks might be forced to raise rates to combat a ''sustained rise'' in prices. 
 But he stopped short of suggesting the Fed would raise rates, citing a more complicated economic situation in the United States. ''So far we do not see evidence yet of a significant acceleration in inflation,'' he said. He also pointed to the current weakness of the American economy as a reason to hesitate.
 Mr. Geithner's remarks came after a speech to the Economic Club of New York in which he called for a more stringent and broadly reaching oversight plan for the government and the Fed.
 He called for a significant overhaul in the regulation of the financial industry, declaring that the current system of supervision was ''confusing'' and generated ''perverse'' incentives for financial participants.
 Among his recommendations were placing investment banks and other major private-sector financial players under a single regulatory umbrella; ''strengthening shock absorbers within institutions'' by raising the required levels of capital reserves; and streamlining a system of oversight that, he said, had ballooned into ''an enormously complex web of rules.''
 Mr. Geithner had little overt praise for a reform platform put forward in March by the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., saying the proposal ''stimulated a very constructive set of discussions.'' Instead, he called for the Fed to have more authority in overseeing the stability of global markets.
 Mr. Geithner, 46, has been at the center of a closely watched policy debate that arose from the ashes of Bear Stearns, the venerable investment bank that nearly defaulted at the height of the winter's credit crisis. The Fed's bailout of Bear, orchestrated by Mr. Geithner, raised questions about the role of the central bank. 
 Mr. Geithner acknowledged that central bankers faced a delicate balance in seeking to avoid either suppressing innovation or rewarding reckless behavior. ''We have to distinguish carefully between problems the markets will solve on their own and those markets cannot solve,'' he said. 
 But he said the shocks of the last few months were reason enough ''to require significant changes to the way we regulate and supervise financial institutions.''
 He said the Fed planned to extend and expand upon the financial faucets it put into place since the summer's mortgage meltdown, to provide banks with a wide range of sources of liquidity. ''The major central banks should put in place a standing network of currency swaps, collateral policies and account arrangements that would make it easier to mobilize liquidity across borders quickly in crisis,'' he said.
 Responding to a question, Mr. Geithner said the evidence he had seen indicated the run-up in oil prices was not caused by speculation, but instead resulted from a substantial increase in global demand, as well as from expectations of future increases 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy F. Geithner, president of the New York Fed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (77%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008



252 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; THE MINIMALIST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3319 words

HEADLINE: Putting Meat Back in Its Place

BYLINE: By MARK BITTMAN

 BODY:
LET'S suppose you've decided to eat less meat, or are considering it. And let's ignore your reasons for doing so. They may be economic, ethical, altruistic, nutritional or even irrational. The arguments for eating less meat are myriad and well-publicized, but at the moment they're irrelevant, because what I want to address here is (almost) purely pragmatic: How do you do it?
 I'm not talking about eating no meat; I'm talking about cutting back, which in some ways is harder than quitting. Vegetarian recipes and traditions are everywhere. But in the American style of eating -- with meat usually at the center of the plate -- it can be difficult to eat two ounces of beef and call it dinner. 
 Cutting back on meat is not an isolated process. Unlike, say, taking up meditation or exercise, it usually has consequences for others. 
 The keys are to keep at least some of your decisions personal so they affect no one but yourself and, when they do affect others, minimize the pain and don't preach. (No one likes a proselytizer.) 
 On the other hand, don't apologize; by serving your friends or family less meat you're certainly doing them no harm, and may be doing them good -- as long as what you serve is delicious, and that's easy enough.
 Reducing the meat habit can be done, and it doesn't have to make you crazy. Although there will undoubtedly be times you'll have cravings, they'll never give you the shakes. So, in no particular order, here are some suggestions to ease your path to eating less meat. 
 1.Forget the protein thing. Roughly simultaneously with your declaration that you're cutting back on meat, someone will ask ''How are you going to get enough protein?'' The answer is ''by being omnivorous.'' Plants have protein, too; in fact, per calorie, many plants have more protein than meat. (For example, a cheeseburger contains 14.57 grams of protein in 286 calories, or about .05 grams of protein per calorie; a serving of spinach has 2.97 grams of protein in 23 calories, or .12 grams of protein per calorie; lentils have .07 grams per calorie.) By eating a variety, you can get all essential amino acids. 
 You also don't have to eat the national average of a half-pound of meat a day to get enough protein. On average, Americans eat about twice as much as the 56 grams of daily protein recommended by the United States Department of Agriculture (a guideline that some nutritionists think is too high). For anyone eating a well-balanced diet, protein is probably not an issue. 
 2.Buy less meat. How many ounces of meat is a serving? For years, the U.S.D.A.'s recommendation has been four ounces a person, yet most of us have long figured one-and-a-half to two pounds of meat is the right amount for four people. (Our per capita consumption of meat hasn't changed much over the years, and remains at about a half-pound a day.) Change that amount, and both your cooking style and the way the plate looks will change, and quickly. 
 Remember that most traditional styles of cooking use meat as a condiment or a treat. This is true in American frontier cooking, where salt pork and bacon were used to season beans; in Italy, where a small piece of meat is served as a secondo (rarely more than a few ounces, even in restaurants); and around the world, where bits of meat are added to stir-fries and salads, as well as bean, rice and noodle dishes. In all of these cases, meat is seen as a treasure, not as something to be gobbled up as if it were air. 
 For many of us who grew up in the United States in the last 60 years, this is the toughest hurdle. The message (remember ''Beef: it's what's for dinner''?) was in our psyche from before we could hold a fork. We may have vegetarian nights, or seafood nights, but when we have meat nights, there's often a big piece of meat (or poultry) on the plate, with starch and vegetable to the side.
 3.Get it out of the center of the plate.
 You don't have to jump into utterly unfamiliar territory; just try tweaking the proportions a bit. You might start by buying skinnier pork chops, or doling out smaller slices of steak . 
 Build the meal around what you used to consider side dishes -- not only vegetables, but also grains, beans, salads and even dessert, if you consider fruit a dessert -- rather than the meat. Nearly every culture has dishes in which meat is used to season rice or another grain. Consider dirty rice, fried rice, pilaf, biryani, arroz con pollo: the list is almost endless. 
 Similarly, there isn't a country in the world that cooks legumes that doesn't toss a little meat in now and then. And mentioning stir-fries and pasta dishes here seems almost too obvious. 
 But you need not go transcultural. When you make stew, soup or another dish with many ingredients, you make a decision about its main ingredient and about the quantity of that ingredient. If you think of meat stews or soups, chicken pot pie, even lasagna, you'll quickly recognize that the decision to load them up with meat or to use meat as an ingredient of equal importance to the others is entirely yours. 
 The same is true when you're grilling. Compare these statements: ''We're grilling a leg of lamb and throwing a few vegetables on there,'' and ''We're grilling vegetables and breads, and will throw a few chunks of lamb on there.'' Again, if you see the meat as a treasure, things change. 
 4. Buy more vegetables, and learn new ways to cook them. 
 If you're a good cook, you already know you can make a meal out of pretty much anything. If you open your refrigerator and it's stocked with vegetables, that's what you're going to cook. You'll augment the vegetables with pantry items: pasta, rice, beans, cheese, eggs, good canned fish, bacon, even a small amount of meat. We're not discussing vegetarianism, remember? 
 If you're not a good cook, you have the opportunity to learn how to cook in what could turn out to be the style of the future. 
 5. Make nonmeat items as convenient as meat. There is a myth, even among experienced cooks, that few things are as convenient as meat. And while there's no arguing that grilling, broiling or pan-grilling a steak or chop is fast, it's equally true that almost no one considers such a preparation a one-dish meal. 
 By thinking ahead, and working ahead, you can make cooking vegetables as convenient as what in India is often called ''non-veg.'' Spend an hour or two during the course of the week precooking all the nonmeat foods you think take too long for fast dinners. 
 Store cooked beans in the refrigerator or freezer and reheat as needed, with seasonings. Keeping precooked beans in the freezer will change your cooking habits more easily than any other simple strategy. 
 Reheat cooked whole grains (the microwave is good for this) for breakfast with milk or dinner with savory seasonings. Wash tender greens and store in a salad spinner, covered bowl, or plastic bag. Most other vegetables can be poached, shocked in ice water, drained, and served cold or reheated in any fashion you like -- sauteed quickly in butter, steamed, grilled or made into a gratin or something equally substantial.
 6. Make some rules. Depending on your habits, it may be no bacon at breakfast; it may be no burgers at lunch; it may be no fast food, ever; it may be ''eat a salad instead of a sandwich three times a week,'' or ''eat a vegetarian dinner three times a week.'' It may mean meatless Fridays. It may mean (this is essentially what I do) meatless breakfasts and lunches and all-bets-are-off dinners.
 7.Look at restaurant menus differently. If you're cutting back on meat, there are three restaurant strategies. Two are easy, and one is hard, but probably the most important. 
 The first: go to restaurants that don't feature meat-heavy dishes. It's harder to go overboard eating at most Asian restaurants, and traditional Italian is fairly safe also. 
 The second: Once in a while, forget the rules and pledges, and eat like a real American; obviously you can't do this every time, but it's an option. 
 The third is the tricky one: Remember you're doing this voluntarily, for whatever reasons seem important to you (or at least seemed, until you were confronted with the lamb shanks on the menu). Then order from the parts of the menu that contain little or no meat: salads, sides, soups and (often, anyway) appetizers. If all else fails, offer to share a meat course among two or even three or four people; many restaurant entrees are too big anyway. 
 I distinctly remember (no great feat; it was just over a year ago), the first time I was in a restaurant and ordered two salads and a bowl of soup. 
 My companion, who had long known me as a meat-first kind of guy, asked, ''Really?'' 
 The waiter asked, ''How would you like that served?'' And then life went on as usual. Wasn't bad at all.
 Recipe: Vegetables and Chicken Time: 30 minutes
 Time: 30 minutes
 1/4 cup olive oil
 2 medium leeks (or 1 large), washed well and diced, including some of the green part
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper
 1/2 cup dry white wine or water
 1/2 cup stock or water 
 1/2 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme or tarragon leaves, or a good pinch dried thyme or tarragon
 2 boneless, skinless chicken breasts (1 whole breast)
 2 or 3 large all-purpose potatoes (like red-skin or Yukon Gold), peeled if you like and cut into 1-inch cubes
 2 medium carrots or parsnips, peeled and cut into coins
 1/2 pound sugar snap or snow peas, trimmed and strings removed if necessary; or 1 cup shelled peas (frozen are fine)
 1/2 pound asparagus, trimmed and cut into 1-inch pieces
 2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
 Chopped fresh parsley leaves.
 1. Put half the oil in a large skillet over medium heat. When hot, add leeks, sprinkle with salt and pepper and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 5 minutes. Add wine, stock and herb; bring to a boil and let bubble for a minute or two.
 2. Add chicken, turn heat down to medium-low, cover and simmer until meat is barely cooked through, 5 or 6 minutes. Remove chicken and keep warm.
 3. Add potatoes; bring to a boil. Cook until potatoes are almost tender, about 5 minutes, adding liquid if necessary. Stir in carrots and cook for another couple of minutes. Liquid should thicken; if it does not, turn heat up and cook another couple of minutes, stirring to prevent vegetables from sticking. Add remaining oil gradually, stirring vigorously with back of a spoon as you do so.
 4. Add peas and asparagus to pot. Cook, stirring occasionally, until vegetables are brightly colored and just tender, about 3 minutes. Chop or slice chicken and return it to pot, along with any juices that have accumulated. Add lemon juice. When warmed through, taste and adjust seasoning. Serve in shallow bowls, garnished with parsley.
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Recipe: Grilled or Broiled Kebabs Time: 45 minutes
 Time: 45 minutes
 About 1 pound cherry tomatoes, or bigger tomatoes cut into chunks
 About 1 pound cauliflower florets, cut into 1-inch pieces
 1 pound lamb or other meat, cut into 1-inch chunks
 4 tablespoons olive oil, more as needed
 1 tablespoon coarsely ground cumin 
 1 coarsely ground dried chili, optional
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper
 Chopped fresh cilantro leaves for garnish, optional.
 1. If you are using wooden skewers, soak them in water for at least 10 minutes. Heat a charcoal or gas grill or a broiler and put rack about 4 inches from heat source. If you are using charcoal or briquettes, be generous; you want a broad fire.
 2. Thread vegetables and meat alternately on skewers, leaving a little space between pieces. Brush with olive oil and sprinkle with half the cumin and chili, along with some salt and pepper. Let kebabs sit while grill or broiler heats.
 3. When fire is hot but not scorching, start cooking kebabs. Brush them with a little more olive oil or drizzle and turn them once or twice as they cook, until they begin to brown and become tender, after 10 or 15 minutes. Put skewers on a platter, sprinkle remaining cumin and chili on top, garnish and serve. 
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Recipe: Thai Beef Salad Time: 25 minutes
 Time: 25 minutes
 8 ounces skirt or flank steak, leftover or raw
 6 cups torn salad greens (mixed is nice)
 1 cup torn fresh herb leaves (mint, cilantro, Thai basil or a combination)
 1/4 cup minced red onion 
 1 medium cucumber, peeled if skin is tough, cut in half lengthwise, seeded and diced
 1 small fresh hot red chili, like Thai, or to taste, minced
 Juice of 2 limes
 1 tablespoon sesame oil
 1 tablespoon fish sauce (nam pla, available at Asian markets) or soy sauce
 1/2 teaspoon sugar.
 1. If you are starting with raw meat, start a gas or charcoal grill or heat a broiler; rack should be about 4 inches from heat source. Grill or broil beef until medium rare, turning once or twice, 5 to 10 minutes, depending on thickness; set it aside to cool.
 2. Toss greens with herbs, onion and cucumber. In a bowl, combine all remaining ingredients with 1 tablespoon water; dressing will be thin. Use half of this mixture to toss with greens. Remove greens to a platter. 
 3. Slice beef thinly, reserving its juice; combine juice with remaining dressing. Lay slices of beef over salad, drizzle remaining dressing over all, and serve. 
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Recipe: Edamame with Pork, Tomatoes and Cilantro Time: 25 minutes
 Time: 25 minutes
 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
 1 small onion or 3 scallions, chopped
 1 tablespoon minced garlic
 1 pound pork shoulder, cut into 1/2-inch chunks
 2 teaspoons chopped fresh marjoram, oregano or rosemary, or 1 teaspoon thyme leaves
 1 1/2 cups chopped ripe tomato (canned are fine, drained or not)
 2 cups edamame, fresh or frozen and thawed
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper
 1/3 to 1/2 cup chopped parsley.
 1. Put oil in a skillet over medium-high heat. When hot, add onion and garlic and cook, stirring occasionally, until onion is soft, about 3 minutes. Remove and add pork chunks; cook, stirring, until crisp, 5 to 10 minutes. Halfway through, add herb and continue to cook. 
 2. Add tomato and cook at a gentle bubble until tomatoes begin to break apart, about 10 minutes. Stir in edamame and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cook until edamame are tender, 5 to 7 minutes. Taste and adjust seasoning, stir in parsley, and serve.
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Recipe: Vegetables and Chicken Time: 30 minutes
 Time: 30 minutes
 1/4 cup olive oil
 2 medium leeks (or 1 large), washed well and diced, including some of the green part
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper
 1/2 cup dry white wine or water
 1/2 cup stock or water 
 1/2 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme or tarragon leaves, or a good pinch dried thyme or tarragon
 2 boneless, skinless chicken breasts (1 whole breast)
 2 or 3 large all-purpose potatoes (like red-skin or Yukon Gold), peeled if you like and cut into 1-inch cubes
 2 medium carrots or parsnips, peeled and cut into coins
 1/2 pound sugar snap or snow peas, trimmed and strings removed if necessary; or 1 cup shelled peas (frozen are fine)
 1/2 pound asparagus, trimmed and cut into 1-inch pieces
 2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
 Chopped fresh parsley leaves.
 1. Put half the oil in a large skillet over medium heat. When hot, add leeks, sprinkle with salt and pepper and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 5 minutes. Add wine, stock and herb; bring to a boil and let bubble for a minute or two.
 2. Add chicken, turn heat down to medium-low, cover and simmer until meat is barely cooked through, 5 or 6 minutes. Remove chicken and keep warm.
 3. Add potatoes; bring to a boil. Cook until potatoes are almost tender, about 5 minutes, adding liquid if necessary. Stir in carrots and cook for another couple of minutes. Liquid should thicken; if it does not, turn heat up and cook another couple of minutes, stirring to prevent vegetables from sticking. Add remaining oil gradually, stirring vigorously with back of a spoon as you do so.
 4. Add peas and asparagus to pot. Cook, stirring occasionally, until vegetables are brightly colored and just tender, about 3 minutes. Chop or slice chicken and return it to pot, along with any juices that have accumulated. Add lemon juice. When warmed through, taste and adjust seasoning. Serve in shallow bowls, garnished with parsley.
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Recipe: Grilled or Broiled Kebabs Time: 45 minutes
 Time: 45 minutes
 About 1 pound cherry tomatoes, or bigger tomatoes cut into chunks
 About 1 pound cauliflower florets, cut into 1-inch pieces
 1 pound lamb or other meat, cut into 1-inch chunks
 4 tablespoons olive oil, more as needed
 1 tablespoon coarsely ground cumin 
 1 coarsely ground dried chili, optional
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper
 Chopped fresh cilantro leaves for garnish, optional.
 1. If you are using wooden skewers, soak them in water for at least 10 minutes. Heat a charcoal or gas grill or a broiler and put rack about 4 inches from heat source. If you are using charcoal or briquettes, be generous; you want a broad fire.
 2. Thread vegetables and meat alternately on skewers, leaving a little space between pieces. Brush with olive oil and sprinkle with half the cumin and chili, along with some salt and pepper. Let kebabs sit while grill or broiler heats.
 3. When fire is hot but not scorching, start cooking kebabs. Brush them with a little more olive oil or drizzle and turn them once or twice as they cook, until they begin to brown and become tender, after 10 or 15 minutes. Put skewers on a platter, sprinkle remaining cumin and chili on top, garnish and serve. 
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Recipe: Thai Beef Salad Time: 25 minutes
 Time: 25 minutes
 8 ounces skirt or flank steak, leftover or raw
 6 cups torn salad greens (mixed is nice)
 1 cup torn fresh herb leaves (mint, cilantro, Thai basil or a combination)
 1/4 cup minced red onion 
 1 medium cucumber, peeled if skin is tough, cut in half lengthwise, seeded and diced
 1 small fresh hot red chili, like Thai, or to taste, minced
 Juice of 2 limes
 1 tablespoon sesame oil
 1 tablespoon fish sauce (nam pla, available at Asian markets) or soy sauce
 1/2 teaspoon sugar.
 1. If you are starting with raw meat, start a gas or charcoal grill or heat a broiler; rack should be about 4 inches from heat source. Grill or broil beef until medium rare, turning once or twice, 5 to 10 minutes, depending on thickness; set it aside to cool.
 2. Toss greens with herbs, onion and cucumber. In a bowl, combine all remaining ingredients with 1 tablespoon water; dressing will be thin. Use half of this mixture to toss with greens. Remove greens to a platter. 
 3. Slice beef thinly, reserving its juice; combine juice with remaining dressing. Lay slices of beef over salad, drizzle remaining dressing over all, and serve. 
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Recipe: Edamame with Pork, Tomatoes and Cilantro Time: 25 minutes
 Time: 25 minutes
 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
 1 small onion or 3 scallions, chopped
 1 tablespoon minced garlic
 1 pound pork shoulder, cut into 1/2-inch chunks
 2 teaspoons chopped fresh marjoram, oregano or rosemary, or 1 teaspoon thyme leaves
 1 1/2 cups chopped ripe tomato (canned are fine, drained or not)
 2 cups edamame, fresh or frozen and thawed
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper
 1/3 to 1/2 cup chopped parsley.
 1. Put oil in a skillet over medium-high heat. When hot, add onion and garlic and cook, stirring occasionally, until onion is soft, about 3 minutes. Remove and add pork chunks; cook, stirring, until crisp, 5 to 10 minutes. Halfway through, add herb and continue to cook. 
 2. Add tomato and cook at a gentle bubble until tomatoes begin to break apart, about 10 minutes. Stir in edamame and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cook until edamame are tender, 5 to 7 minutes. Taste and adjust seasoning, stir in parsley, and serve.
 Yield: 4 servings.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 18, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A recipe last week with an article about using less meat was mislabeled. The dish was edamame with pork, tomatoes and parsley -- not edamame with pork, tomatoes and cilantro.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
TO BE SAVORED, NOT GOBBLED: Make the most of less meat, as in kebabs with cauliflower and cherry tomatoes.
 HOT NIGHT'S DREAM DINNER: In a salad flavored with chilies and lime juice, beef does not overwhelm other ingredients.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SCRIVANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUTRITION (89%); ETHICS (89%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (72%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



253 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Student Loans, for Adults

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Student Loans Start to Bypass 2-Year Colleges'' (front page, June 2): 
 At a time when higher-level skills and education are being pushed as America's way to succeed in a global economy, it is alarming that some of the country's biggest banks can choose to disinvest in students simply because they attend non-elite postsecondary institutions.
 These ''less competitive'' institutions and community colleges are where so many American workers go back to school. As noted in our report, ''Adult Learning in Focus,'' low-income families can expect to pay almost 20 percent of their income for undergraduate tuition and fees at a four-year public institution. 
 With tuition rising, wages stagnant and the cost of gas taking an ever larger chunk of a family's monthly budget, education is now even further out of reach. 
 Our country and our financial institutions should be making it easier, not harder, for adults to go back to school.
 Pamela Tate President and C.E.O. Council for Adult and Experiential Learning Chicago, June 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL FOR ADULT & EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



254 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 557 words

 BODY:
LIGHTENING LOADS Faced with the financial pain of higher fuel prices, airlines are looking for cost-saving measures wherever they can find them. 
 SPINNING OFF CIGARETTES The Tisch family completed its plan to spin off the tobacco unit, Lorillard, from the portfolio of the Loews Corporation, the conglomerate the family leads. [A18.] 
 MODERN MAKEOVER An large number of classic characters for children, including Angelina Ballerina, left, are being freshened up and reintroduced as their corporate owners try to cater to parents' nostalgia and children's YouTube-era sensibilities. [C1.]
 THE DOLLAR RALLIES Dramatic moves across the bond and currency markets spotlight a belief among investors that the Federal Reserve has shifted its focus to fight inflation. [C1.]
 TRADE RELATIONS Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. says America's relationship with China is 'growing in a positive direction' and he will seek a more open Chinese economy. [C1.]
 TESTING LOYALTY Japan's salarymen are learning to stand up for their rights and in the process rewriting the social contract that had once bound workers to companies with ties of loyalty. [C1.]
 MISSING MAN About an hour before Samuel Israel III, co-founder of a Connecticut-based hedge fund, was to report to prison, he disappeared. [C1.]
 OIL DEAL XTO Energy agreed to acquire the closely held Hunt Petroleum, the oil company created by the late billionaire H.L. Hunt, for about $4.2 billion. [C2.]
 TICKET TO SPACE Sergey Brin, a co-founder of Google, made a $5 million investment in a company that arranges passage for wealthy explorers to ride in a Russian Soyuz rocket. [C3.]
 MOVE TO BIWEEKLY U.S. News & World Report said that beginning in January it will publish every other week and expand its consumer reporting and product rankings. [C3.]
 SLEEPY PILOTS The National Transportation Safety Board blamed crew fatigue for a mishap in which a regional jet slid off a snowy runway in Traverse City, Mich., in April 2007. [C3.]
 LESS DEMAND FOR OIL A leading energy forecaster cut its outlook for global oil demand as a result of record prices and shrinking subsidies in some emerging countries. [C3.]
 BANKING CHANGES IN EUROPE The governor of the Bank of England, Mervyn A. King, said the central bank was working on a new system to offer financing to banks. [C4.]
 STRONG AD SALES The broadcast television networks are winding up their upfronts with surprisingly good advance advertising sales for the 2008-9 season. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C6.]
 FORD STAKE Kirk Kerkorian said his investment company, Tracinda, would buy 20 million shares of the Ford Motor Company at $8.50 each, increasing his stake to 5.5 percent. [C8.]
 REBUKING MICROSOFTNeelie Kroes, the European Union's competition commissioner, recommended that businesses and governments use software based on open standards. [C8.]
 EXPANSION PLANS Kaufman Astoria Studios, one of New York City's three largest movie studios, will break ground this fall on a $20 million building in Queens. [C12.]
 TRADE GAP WIDENS The Commerce Department reported that the trade deficit rose in April by 7.8 percent, to $60.9 billion, the highest level in 13 months. [C14.]
 BANK SELLS UNIT Bank of America will divest its equity prime brokerage operation, selling it for about $300 million to the French bank BNP Paribas. [C16.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (73%); TOBACCO MFG (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); BOND MARKETS (55%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%)

COMPANY: LOEWS CORP (84%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (66%); GOOGLE INC (54%); BANK OF ENGLAND (52%)

TICKER: L (NYSE) (84%); FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (84%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (84%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%); SERGEY BRIN (50%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (52%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



255 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM CAIRO; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Don't Leave Home Without a Cultural Compass

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
Emad Refaat strode out of his workshop with purpose, his grease-covered hands pointing down the road even before he could see the road. ''Come here,'' he said, his voice strong with reassurance. ''Go to the light, make the first right. That's Salah el-Din Street.''
 Sure? 
 ''I am sure, totally sure.''
 But he was wrong, totally wrong. ''I wanted to help. I was actually going to tell you to ask the flower vendor on the corner. He knows all the streets,'' said Mr. Refaat, 28, who was slightly embarrassed when he was asked why he gave the wrong directions with such conviction.
 Navigating Egypt can be a challenge of understanding, and not just language but also culture, values, norms. A pile of trash may look like litter to a foreigner, but it is a commodity to poor people who recycle and reuse almost everything. In Egypt, it is routine, absolutely routine, to get the wrong directions.
 That is not because people are mischievous, but because if you ask for help, they feel obligated to try to help -- even if they send you off in the wrong direction. 
 There is a lesson in this confusion that has more value than merely cautioning tourists to bring a map, sociologists, political scientists and intellectuals agreed. 
 The United States' relations with Egypt are strained. From the man on the street to the president, rightly or wrongly, Egyptians are feeling disrespected by Washington.
 It is not just about the invasion of Iraq, or the perennial feeling of favoritism for Israel, or the mild critiques coming from Washington about Egypt's lack of democracy. It is what people here see as the demonstrated failure to understand how they think, what they value -- even when those values mean sending someone off in the wrong direction.
 Egyptian society values hospitality and personal honor over precision and directness; there is a kind of emotional camouflage that Egyptians wear to get through their days. Drivers act as if no one else is on the road, but almost always smile and wave after a near collision. 
 ''Here, even if someone sends you in the wrong direction, he still feels that he did what he was supposed to do,'' said Hamdi Taha, head of a charity, Karam al-Islam, and a professor of communications at Al Azhar University. ''He doesn't think he misguided you. He helped. Right and wrong is a relative thing.'' 
 It is the little things that can be hardest to understand. But it is the little things, especially at a time when people are angry with the big things, that can stoke people's ire, Mr. Taha said.
 Even with people you might expect to be on America's side.
 Like Ghada Shahbendar. She is an outspoken, English-speaking rights advocate who has tried to prod the Egyptian government to be more democratic, more open and less repressive. But even Ms. Shahbendar was offended by President Bush's remarks last month at the World Economic Forum in Sharm el Sheik.
 Mr. Bush came to the podium with little credibility among Arabs, that is a given. But his indirect criticism of Egyptian politics set off a national chorus of protest. People were offended because Mr. Bush, with all his own baggage, stood in Egypt and criticized Egypt, Mr. Taha and Ms. Shahbendar said.
 ''We are emotional people,'' Ms. Shahbendar said. ''A criticism of a regime that represents us, whether we are in agreement with that regime or not, sparks negative emotions.''
 It is a complicated line that officials must walk when they try to balance the values of foreign countries against the values at home. When Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, wrote a letter to Mr. Bush, the language was the kind of flowery prose common in Iranian communication -- but quite different from the very direct communication of American English. It was widely mocked as sophomoric.
 In Egypt, the recently departed United States ambassador, Francis Ricciardone, was well regarded by Egyptians on the street and in high office because he spoke the way they did -- with effusive praise for his hosts. But this got him in trouble at home. 
 In February 2007, the ambassador was interviewed on Egyptian television and displayed his characteristic guest-in-the-house behavior. ''Egypt today is very different from Egypt during the 1980s, both economically and politically,'' he said at a time when it was clear that the government was backpedaling on political reforms. ''There is more freedom and there are more intense, aggressive discussions.''
 He was then blasted back in the United States for sounding like an apologist for the government. His term ended abruptly at the three-year mark. He left Egypt last month.
 ''Most Egyptians like him because we believed he liked us,'' Ms. Shahbendar said. 
 Egyptians want democracy. Mr. Bush talked about democracy. But it is not at all clear that both sides were talking about the same thing. Magdy Mohammed, 22, an engineering student, was hanging around a coffee shop in Tahrir Square recently when he reflected on democracy. ''If democracy brings us food we can afford, and a government that really cares about its people, then this is what we want.''
 What he and others say they most want is fairness, rule of law, to no longer be victims of a system that links opportunity with connections and the ability to pay bribes. He was not talking about free elections. ''This is what you do in America, but your leaders are no better than ours,'' he said.
 There have been numerous times when American officials have been blindsided by the little things in the Middle East. When the United States first organized a police force in Iraq, officials purchased uniforms with baseball caps. But the Iraqis were infuriated and embarrassed because they wear berets, not caps. 
 When Karen P. Hughes, then the under secretary of state for public affairs, told women in Jidda, Saudi Arabia, that they should be able to drive and to ''participate fully'' in society in 2005, she was met with hostility from her handpicked audience.
 It is those kinds of assumptions -- that the citizens of foreign countries want to be liberated by America and live like Americans -- that can really get under people's skin. Egyptians may give out wrong directions -- but only when they are asked for directions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A busy street in Cairo, clockwise from top left, a taxi near the pyramids of Giza, President Bush in Sharm el Sheik in May and a woman buying bread in Cairo. Across Egypt, people are feeling disrespected by Washington.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (87%) EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); ISRAEL (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



256 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: The End of Intervention

BYLINE: By MADELEINE K. ALBRIGHT. 
Madeleine K. Albright was the United States secretary of state from 1997 to 2001.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 THE Burmese government's criminally neglectful response to last month's cyclone, and the world's response to that response, illustrate three grim realities today: totalitarian governments are alive and well; their neighbors are reluctant to pressure them to change; and the notion of national sovereignty as sacred is gaining ground, helped in no small part by the disastrous results of the American invasion of Iraq. Indeed, many of the world's necessary interventions in the decade before the invasion -- in places like Haiti and the Balkans -- would seem impossible in today's climate. 
 The first and most obvious reality is the survival of totalitarian government in an age of global communications and democratic progress. Myanmar's military junta employs the same set of tools used by the likes of Stalin to crush dissent and monitor the lives of citizens. The needs of the victims of Cyclone Nargis mean nothing to a regime focused solely on preserving its own authority. 
 Second is the unwillingness of Myanmar's neighbors to use their collective leverage on behalf of change. A decade ago, when Myanmar was allowed to join the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, I was assured by leaders in the region that they would push the junta to open its economy and move in the direction of democracy. With a few honorable exceptions, this hasn't happened. 
 A third reality is that the concept of national sovereignty as an inviolable and overriding principle of global law is once again gaining ground. Many diplomats and foreign policy experts had hoped that the fall of the Berlin Wall would lead to the creation of an integrated world system free from spheres of influence, in which the wounds created by colonial and cold war empires would heal. 
 In such a world, the international community would recognize a responsibility to override sovereignty in emergency situations -- to prevent ethnic cleansing or genocide, arrest war criminals, restore democracy or provide disaster relief when national governments were either unable or unwilling to do so. 
 During the 1990s, certain precedents were created. The administration of George H. W. Bush intervened to prevent famine in Somalia and to aid Kurds in northern Iraq; the Clinton administration returned an elected leader to power in Haiti; NATO ended the war in Bosnia and stopped Slobodan Milosevic's campaign of terror in Kosovo; the British halted a civil war in Sierra Leone; and the United Nations authorized life-saving missions in East Timor and elsewhere.
 These actions were not steps toward a world government. They did reflect the view that the international system exists to advance certain core values, including development, justice and respect for human rights. In this view, sovereignty is still a central consideration, but cases may arise in which there is a responsibility to intervene -- through sanctions or, in extreme cases, by force -- to save lives. 
 The Bush administration's decision to fight in Afghanistan after 9/11 did nothing to weaken this view because it was clearly motivated by self-defense. The invasion of Iraq, with the administration's grandiose rhetoric about pre-emption, was another matter, however. It generated a negative reaction that has weakened support for cross-border interventions even for worthy purposes. Governments, especially in the developing world, are now determined to preserve the principle of sovereignty, even when the human costs of doing so are high. 
 Thus, Myanmar's leaders have been shielded from the repercussions of their outrageous actions. Sudan has been able to dictate the terms of multinational operations inside Darfur. The government of Zimbabwe may yet succeed in stealing a presidential election. 
 Political leaders in Pakistan have told the Bush administration to back off, despite the growth of Al Qaeda and Taliban cells in the country's wild northwest. African leaders (understandably perhaps) have said no to the creation of a regional American military command. And despite recent efforts to enshrine the doctrine of a ''responsibility to protect'' in international law, the concept of humanitarian intervention has lost momentum.
 The global conscience is not asleep, but after the turbulence of recent years, it is profoundly confused. Some governments will oppose any exceptions to the principle of sovereignty because they fear criticism of their own policies. Others will defend the sanctity of sovereignty unless and until they again have confidence in the judgment of those proposing exceptions.
 At the heart of the debate is the question of what the international system is. Is it just a collection of legal nuts and bolts cobbled together by governments to protect governments? Or is it a living framework of rules intended to make the world a more humane place?
 We know how the government of Myanmar would answer that question, but what we need to listen to is the voice -- and cry -- of the Burmese people.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ENRIC JARDI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MYANMAR CYCLONE NARGIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (85%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); COLD WAR (76%); CIVIL WAR (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); WAR CRIMES (68%); GENOCIDE (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); FAMINE (63%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MYANMAR (94%); IRAQ (93%); HAITI (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); KOSOVO (79%); GERMANY (79%); SOMALIA (79%); ASIA (79%); SERBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



257 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: New Effort To Monitor Benchmark Loan Rate

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Recognizing that the turmoil in the credit market is not yet over, British banking officials on Tuesday revealed how they plan to restore confidence in the lending market and ensure financial stability.
 The governor of the Bank of England, Mervyn King, said that ''the crisis is not yet over'' and that the central bank was working on a new system to offer financing to banks, which it plans to announce later this year. Mr. King also said he was seeking to repair a system that over time reduced incentives for banks to keep track of how much risk they take.
 Separately, the British Bankers' Association said that it would change the way it calculates one of the most widely used benchmarks to set the cost of debt in an attempt to stifle concern about the rate's veracity, which threatened to further reduce confidence in financial markets. 
 The comments are a clear sign that the tight credit markets set off a debate about the effectiveness of current rules and regulations of financial markets. While some analysts applauded the proposals for improvement by the central bank and the bankers' association, they said there was little authorities could do to improve conditions in financial markets.
 ''To look at ways to improve the system is always good,'' said Andrew Lynch, a fund manager at Schroders in London. ''Regrettably, this is rather a medium- to long-term game and before that we'll have to wait for the markets to sort themselves out.''
 Banks' reluctance to lend to each other because of fear that they would need the money pushed up the London interbank offered rate, known as Libor, and made it more expensive for banks to borrow from each other. Banks use the Libor to set interest rates for products ranging from mortgages and student loans to corporate debt. Tighter lending conditions and higher borrowing rates prompted the biggest decline in British housing prices in more than a decade and weighs on British households, which are among the most indebted in the developed world, slowing economic growth.
 In an attempt to strengthen the Libor and the confidence of its users, the association said it would start to ask banks to justify any rate discrepancies. The association calculates the Libor every day for 15 different borrowing periods ranging from a day to a year in 10 different currencies by polling banks about how much it would cost them to borrow money. It also plans to increase the number of banks it surveys and add more members to the Foreign Exchange and Money Markets Committee, the independent panel that oversees the process to calculate the Libor.
 At least two more changes are being considered. The association asked for comment Tuesday from banking officials about introducing a second rate-fixing process for the dollar lending rate after the stock markets open in the United States. The association, which had always published each quote it received from banks, is also rethinking this level of transparency after some analysts said keeping the quotes secret would help banks to avoid being stigmatized.
 In a speech on Tuesday at the annual conference of the British Bankers' Association, Mr. King of the Bank of England said that any system would ''need the right pricing structure'' and would ''need to overcome the 'stigma' problem that has affected access to all central banks during the current crisis.''
 The central bank also grapples with the problem that many needy financial institutions ''are global in scope but the responsibility for both regulation and rescue remains firmly at national level,'' he said. A further challenge is how to ensure liquidity at all times without encouraging irresponsible risk-taking.
 ''If banks feel they must keep on dancing while the music is playing and that at the end of the party the central bank will make sure everyone gets home safely, then over time the parties will become wilder and wilder,'' Mr. King said. ''That might not matter were the consequences limited to the partygoers. But they are not.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (71%); INTERBANK LENDING (70%); STUDENT LOANS (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (62%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (62%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH BANKERS' ASSOCIATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED KINGDOM (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



258 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Broadcasters Fare Surprisingly Well in Ad Sales

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE biggest broadcast television networks are concluding surprisingly good advance advertising sales for the 2008-9 season.
 The networks -- ABC, CBS, CW, Fox and NBC -- are finishing up what is known as the upfront market, called that because they sell commercial time ahead of a new TV season. It appears, from discussions with network executives and industry analysts, that the broadcasters may have matched the $9.1 billion to $9.2 billion they took in last spring before the start of the 2007-8 season.
 Several forecasts in April and May held that the upfront market for 2008-9 would be better for buyers than sellers because of the uncertainties caused by the national economy.
 There were also predictions that the broadcasters would lose sales to the lingering effects of the writers' strike, which led viewers to switch from broadcast TV to cable TV or online video. 
 ''If you look at this in a broader context,'' for broadcast TV ''to be relatively flat in an expanding media marketplace, being able to preserve its share, is remarkable,'' said Joe Mandese, editor at MediaPost , an online and print trade publication.
 ''Even in this age of digital lust, people still demand what they know will deliver in the old way,'' he added, despite caveats.
 Among those caveats is the fact that several broadcasters sold more of their inventories of commercial time in this upfront market than they did in the upfront market for 2007-8.
 Typically, a network will sell about 75 percent of its commercial inventory in an upfront market. In this instance, the percentages were as high as 80 to 85 percent.
 It was, in other words, a Woody Allen upfront market: Take the money and run.
 Another caveat is that the increase in demand for commercial time in 2008-9 was partly fueled by the lower ratings the broadcasters drew for their prime-time series in the 2007-8 season. To reach the same number of viewers of broadcast TV as before, advertisers have to buy more spots.
 ''It's totally counterintuitive,'' said Michael Nathanson, a media analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company in New York, but ''the harder it is to find audiences, or barrels of oil, the fiercer the frenzy to pay more to acquire them.''
 Because of the continuing declines in ratings for the broadcast networks, ''buyers need to reserve whatever they can find'' -- not unlike the market for oil.
 Although the broadcast networks no doubt would have preferred to surpass last year's performance, in an economy like this one, it could be said that flat is the new up.
 ''I'm encouraged by what the market seems to look like,'' said Mike Pilot, president for sales and marketing at NBC Universal in New York, part of General Electric.
 ''Getting out early with the schedule made a big difference for our company,'' he added, a reference to a decision by NBC Universal executives to offer advertisers a preview of the 2008-9 lineup in early April rather than waiting as usual until mid-May.
 Mr. Pilot's counterpart at ABC, Mike Shaw, president for sales and marketing in New York at the ABC Television Network unit, echoed his assessment.
 ''I think we had a really solid upfront,'' Mr. Shaw said. ''We were pleased where things ended up.''
 Numbers for the upfront markets are hard to come by. No signs outside the networks' office buildings display the latest sales tallies, like the signs that proclaim gasoline prices outside service stations.
 Some estimates include sports programs that appear in prime time and some do not. Some networks count the revenue from selling spots during shows that are watched on their Web sites and some do not.
 And advertisers that buy during the upfront market may be able to cancel their purchases before the commercials actually run, adding another layer of uncertainty.
 Some who follow the upfront markets warn against placing too much emphasis on the outcome of the annual tug of war between sellers (the networks) and buyers (the advertisers and agencies).
 ''There's very little correlation between the upfront hubbub and the results that follow,'' Mr. Nathanson said.
 ''The 'death of TV' seems to be overstated,'' he added, ''but the health of broadcast is not to be deciphered from this upfront.''
 Mr. Nathanson compared the upfront market to an airline reservation system: The advertisers are like ''people who want to fly to Florida for Christmas,'' he said, and the networks are like the airlines selling seats on flights.
 ''You don't know what the weather will be like at Christmas, but why wouldn't you reserve a seat?'' he asked, especially when advertisers have better escape clauses in their commitments to the networks than most fliers have with their tickets.
 That is particularly true this time around, Mr. Nathanson said, because prices for commercials bought in the upfront market last year, ahead of the 2007-8 season, turned out to be much lower than prices paid after the season started, in what is known as the scatter market .
 In other words, the better-than-expected results for this upfront market may be a result of advertisers wanting to hedge their bets against rising prices later in the season.
 ABC, part of the Walt Disney Company, sold about $2.5 billion in the upfront market, compared with an estimate of $2.4 billion for the upfront market last spring.
 Mr. Shaw of ABC listed automotive, drugs, entertainment and retail as among the advertiser categories that showed up for his network.
 Mr. Shaw acknowledged the decline in ratings for the broadcast networks, but emphasized what they could still deliver.
 ''The guy with 200 feet of beachfront 10 years ago has 150 feet now,'' he said. ''Is that worth more or less?''
 CBS, a unit of the CBS Corporation, also sold about $2.5 billion, up around $50 million from the estimates for the 2007-8 upfront.
 Fox Broadcasting, part of the News Corporation, sold about $1.95 billion to $2 billion, up $50 million to $100 million from the estimated $1.9 billion sold during the upfront market last spring.
 NBC sold about $1.9 billion compared with an estimated $1.8 billion for the 2007-8 upfront market.
 Mr. Pilot of NBC said a benefit of presenting the schedule earlier than usual was the ability to make more branded-entertainment deals, which integrate advertiser products into the plot lines of series episodes. Such agreements require longer lead times than simply selling spots during a show.
 Not only were there more of them, Mr. Pilot said, ''We used the branded-entertainment connections to drive total upfront packages.''
 The laggard in the upfront market among the big broadcasters was CW, owned by CBS and Time Warner. After it suffered the largest ratings decline of the five networks in the 2007-8 season, its upfront sales for 2008-9 fell to an estimated $350 million to $380 million, from as much as $625 million in the upfront market last spring.
 It should be noted, however, that the CW upfront market for 2007-8 included Sunday and the market for 2008-9 did not, which shrank the CW schedule to 10 hours a week, from 15 hours. (CW is on from 5 to 10 p.m. on Sunday and from 8 to 10 p.m. Monday through Friday.)
 For the coming season, CW has turned over the scheduling of its problematic Sunday line-up to an outside company, Media Rights Capital, so the commercial time during those shows was not part of the upfront discussions.
 As the broadcast upfront market wraps up, the upfront market for the scores of cable networks continues. The results there reflect that the cable networks enjoyed a better 2007-8 season than the broadcastersdid. Estimates are that the cable networks will sell $8.5 billion to $8.8 billion in their upfront market, compared with an estimated $8 billion in their upfront market before the 2007-8 season.
 There are also upfront markets for the Hispanic networks, as well as for syndicated programs. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The comedy ''Project Gary,'' starring Jay Mohr and Jaime King, is planned forWednesdays at 8:30 p.m. this fall on CBS. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONTY BRINTON/CBS)
 ABC is offering ''Life on Mars,'' which is based on a BBC series, for the Thursday 10 p.m. slot of the 2008-9 season.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VIVIAN ZINK/ABC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (93%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); INTERNET VIDEO (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); WRITERS (68%)

COMPANY: SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (63%); MEDIAPOST SA (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (63%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); NAICS541870 ADVERTISING MATERIAL DISTRIBUTION SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



259 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: A Big New York City Movie Studio Is Getting Bigger

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
Kaufman Astoria Studios, one of New York City's three largest movie studios, is moving ahead with a major expansion plan, nine years after it was announced.
 The studio, in the Astoria section of Queens, will break ground this fall on a $20 million building, with an 18,000-square-foot soundstage and 22,000 square feet of support space, on a plot of land diagonally across 36th Street from its current building, which is between 34th and 35th Avenues.
 Eventually, the studio intends to shut off 36th Street and erect a gate to create a studio lot -- a compound with indoor and outdoor sets -- and to construct a tower that would combine a hotel and office space directly behind the new soundstage. 
 Astoria Studios is not the only New York movie studio that is expanding: Two years ago, Silvercup Studios, in Long Island City, Queens, announced that it would build a $1 billion complex on the East River waterfront, south of the Queensboro Bridge. It is to have eight new soundstages, production and support space, two towers with 1,000 apartments, an office tower and stores. 
 Construction has been delayed, however, by problems involving the removal of generators, owned by the New York Power Authority, on the site. Stuart Match Suna, Silvercup Studios' president, said he hoped this matter would be resolved in time for work to begin next year.
 The newest of the big three studios, the four-year-old Steiner Studios, is renovating a 289,000-square-foot building adjacent to its current soundstages in the Brooklyn Navy Yard, for use as production and office space. It also announced last November that it had joined forces with the Navy Yard to transform a 20-acre segment of the yard into a media and entertainment center that would also contain a studio lot.
 All the development is intended to take advantage of tax incentives offered by the city and state governments.
 To lure film production away from other states and Canada, the New York State Legislature four years ago approved a 10 percent tax credit on certain production costs, primarily for blue-collar technicians and crew members, and a 5 percent credit from New York City. These tax breaks -- which are applied toward state and city income taxes -- were sweetened in April, when the Legislature tripled the state tax incentive to 30 percent.
 George S. Kaufman, a developer of New York City office and showroom space, has leased Astoria Studios, which dates to the 1920s silent-picture era, from the city government since 1982. A 10-minute subway ride from Manhattan, the studio's original 300,000-square-foot building holds six soundstages, a recording studio and 50,000 square feet of office space.
 The neighborhood around the original studio building has many related buildings, including a 63,000-square-foot loft building, at 35th Avenue between 37th and 38th Streets, that Mr. Kaufman converted to offices five years ago. Directly across 35th Avenue is a multiplex theater. 
 Other buildings in the neighborhood also have links to the creative arts. The Museum of the Moving Image, across 36th Street from the original studio building, is undergoing a $65 million renovation and expansion.
 In addition, the Frank Sinatra School of the Arts, a high school established in 2001, will move next January into a new building on 35th Avenue between 35th and 36th Streets, on land also previously leased by Astoria Studios.
 Astoria Studios announced plans to build a new soundstage and support space in 1999, but Hal G. Rosenbluth, its president, said it had delayed going forward because ''as 9/11 happened, some of our financing came into question.'' He added: ''Production tax credits later came into play, and the city was able to resurrect some of the financing that was set earlier.''
 Mr. Kaufman said Astoria Studios would embark on the public review process required to ''demap'' 36th Street, in order to create a studio lot, once construction begins on the new soundstage in the fall. He estimated the lot would cost about $2 million. 
 Later, he would like to construct the new hotel and office building behind the new soundstage. The tower is expected to be as big as 150,000 square feet and 18 stories high; this is now in the planning stage.
 Government officials and film industry observers generally laud Astoria Studios' expansion plans. In the last month, the studio announced that it would be used for two new television series: ABC's ''Life on Mars,'' about a time-traveling detective, and HBO's ''Last of the Ninth,'' a police drama. A remake of ''The Taking of Pelham One Two Three,'' originally made in 1974, is currently being produced there. 
 ''There is a growing competitive awareness that the space you are offering for TV and film production needs to be upgraded in quantity and upgraded in quality,'' said Rosemary Scanlon, associate professor of economics at the Real Estate Institute of New York University and former chief economist of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. 
 Ms. Scanlon estimates that television and film production is responsible for $6.6 billion of the total $21.2 billion generated by the arts in New York's economy. 
 She said Astoria Studios' plans for mixed-use development could ''help offset the risk of putting investment in soundstages.'' She said: ''Once you build the facility, then it's a marketing process. Studio space is like inventory; you have to market it every time it becomes vacant.''
 Pat Swinney Kaufman, executive director of the New York State Governor's Office for Motion Picture and Television Development, said the film industry ''can absolutely absorb'' the expansions by the three movie studios. (Ms. Kaufman is not related to George S. Kaufman.)
 Michael N. Gianaris, a Democratic state assemblyman from Queens, predicted the new development would be ''an integral part of the continued success of Long Island City and Astoria. It's an area of the city growing by leaps and bounds; many of us believe it will be the next big business district for the city.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An architect's rendering of the Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens, after its expansion.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JANSON DESIGN GROUP)
 George S. Kaufman, left, the developer, and Hal G. Rosenbluth, president of the studio.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); TAX LAW (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (72%); NAVIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



260 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Standing Up for Workers' Rights In a Country Known for Loyalty

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Japan's salarymen, famous for their work ethic and their corporate loyalty, fueled this nation's industrial rise. But more recently, they have borne the brunt of its economic decline, enduring lower wages, job insecurity and long hours of unpaid overtime.
 Now, a few are fighting back, like Hiroshi Takano. 
 For years, Mr. Takano regularly worked into the wee hours as a store manager at the McDonald's Company Japan. With his health deteriorating and the company, a Japanese business that operates many local restaurants here, refusing to pay overtime, Mr. Takano sued three years ago, and won.
 In January, a Tokyo court ordered McDonald's Japan to pay him $75,000 in back overtime wages. Last month, the company announced it would pay more overtime to store managers.
 Slowly and reluctantly, Japan's salarymen are learning to stand up for their rights, and in the process rewriting the social contract that had once bound workers to companies with near feudal bonds of loyalty. While this renegotiation is still under way, a new generation of Japanese like Mr. Takano is seeking to limit the demands of employers with more American-style legal protections. These changing attitudes reflect a broader shift as Japan, Asia's first high-growth success story, struggles to mature into a postindustrial economy. 
 ''Japanese are being forced to think more about their self-interest, which is something they are not used to doing,'' said Yoichi Shimada, a law professor at Waseda University in Tokyo. ''People are slowly realizing there are legal avenues to defend themselves if they feel wronged.''
 According to Japan's Supreme Court, the number of lawsuits filed against employers rose 45 percent from 1997 to 2005, to 2,303 cases. In 2006, that number increased 21 percent, to 2,777 cases if lawsuits heard by a newly created labor arbitration court are included.
 Adding to the alienation between employee and company has been a growing sense of resentment that workers have not benefited from the nation's economic rebound in the last half decade. 
 While corporate profits have soared, wages have remained stagnant, feeding a perception that companies have failed to share the good times with employees. This has led some to seek a bigger piece of the pie, say legal and labor experts.
 There is also a feeling that as companies have cut costs to remain competitive with the cheaper China and South Korea, they passed too much of the burden onto employees. In particular, many of the recent lawsuits involve a practice known as ''service overtime,'' in which workers were silently pressured into logging long hours of unpaid overtime as a display of loyalty, say labor experts.
 ''Japanese companies have used the silence of their loyal employees as a weapon in international competition,'' said Kiyotsugu Shitara, head of the Tokyo Managers' Union, a small white-collar union that helped with Mr. Takano's lawsuit against McDonald's. ''Employees are tired of being used like that.''
 Mr. Shitara and other labor experts said the recent rise in lawsuits was also the latest step in a longer-term move toward a more American-style workplace -- also apparent in the recent rise in midcareer job hopping, once a rarity here.
 Still, many employees involved in the lawsuits describe themselves as reluctant revolutionaries, dragged into a new, more legalistic era to which they have no choice but to adapt. 
 Some, like Mr. Takano, blame the indifferent attitudes of companies for forcing them to fight back when they would just as soon return to the old, cozy relationship between employer and employee. 
 ''I didn't want to do this,'' said Mr. Takano, 46, who still manages a McDonald's store in a Tokyo suburb. ''The company was treating me too coldly, so I had to start protecting my own rights.'' 
 Another reluctant plaintiff was Hiroko Uchino, who filed a lawsuit against the government after her husband, Kenichi, 30, a quality control officer at Toyota, died at his office six years ago. Ms. Uchino wanted a government labor agency to legally recognize that he had died from overwork, something so common that there is a Japanese word for it, karoshi.
 She took legal action after the company said her husband's death was not because of overwork, and that he had only worked about 38 hours of overtime in January 2002, the month before he died. She said the company ignored her when she tried to submit gas station receipts and other evidence to show he had worked much longer hours: 155 hours that January, by Mr. Uchino's calculation. She said the company said he stayed after work voluntarily, and was not entitled to overtime pay.
 Despite her outrage, Ms. Uchino could not bring herself to legally challenge the auto giant, which dominates the central city of Nagoya, where she lives, and had employed not only her husband but his father and grandfather before him. She sued the labor agency instead to receive more of his overtime pay. 
 Ms. Uchino's case won wide sympathy, including a meeting with the labor minister, who gave her words of support. In March, a court in Nagoya ruled her husband's death had been work-related, and that he had worked 93 hours of overtime in his final month, entitling his widow to additional overtime pay. Toyota had no comment on the case.
 ''His father would never have turned to the courts, no matter what,'' said Ms. Uchino, 38. ''But Toyota never would have treated him this way, either. These days, all the company talks about is reducing expenses.''
 She added, ''If my husband had known how the company would react, he never would have shown all this fruitless loyalty.'' 
 Mr. Takano, the McDonald's manager, said he had been working from 6 a.m. to 1 a.m. managing two stores before his lawsuit, in some cases seven days a week. McDonald's Japan said that as a white-collar manager he was not entitled to overtime pay. After a doctor warned him he was at risk of a stroke, Mr. Takano said he had wavered on whether to file a lawsuit -- he liked McDonald's and wanted to keep his job. Now, he hoped the case would improve working conditions for all managers. 
 The company had no comment on the case.
 After the court victory, four other former McDonald's store managers filed a similar suit demanding pay for overtime pay. Legal experts say more could come throughout the fast-food industry. 
 ''I want Japan to become a society where employees can sue their own company,'' Mr. Takano said. ''That's why I'm doing this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hiroko Uchino filed a suit against the Japanese government after her husband, a Toyota quality control officer, died at his office.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KO SASAKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OVERTIME (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ETHICS (90%); BACK PAY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (72%); BONDS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%) JAPAN (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



261 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Banking On Gardening

BYLINE: By MARIAN BURROS

 BODY:
CASSANDRA FEELEY prefers organic ingredients, especially for her baby, but she finds it hard to manage on her husband's salary as an Army sergeant. So this year she did something she has wanted to do for a long time: she planted vegetables in her yard to save money.
 ''One organic cucumber is $3 and I can produce it for pennies,'' she said.
 For her first garden, Ms. Feeley has gone whole hog, hand-tilling a quarter acre in the backyard of her house near the Fort Campbell Army base in Kentucky. She has put in 15 tomato plants, five rows of corn, potatoes, cucumbers, squash, okra, peas, watermelon, green beans. An old barn on the property has been converted to a chicken coop, its residents arriving next month; the goats will be arriving next year. 
 ''I spent $100 on it and I know I will save at least $75 a month on food,'' she said. 
 She is one of the growing number of Americans who, driven by higher grocery costs and a stumbling economy, have taken up vegetable gardening for the first time. Others have increased the size of their existing gardens. 
 Seed companies and garden shops say that not since the rampant inflation of the 1970s has there been such an uptick in interest in growing food at home. Space in community gardens across the country has been sold out for several months. In Austin, Tex., some of the gardens have a three-year waiting list. 
 George C. Ball Jr., owner of the W. Atlee Burpee Company, said sales of vegetable and herb seeds and plants are up by 40 percent over last year, double the annual growth for the last five years. ''You don't see this kind of thing but once in a career,'' he said. Mr. Ball offers half a dozen reasons for the phenomenon, some of which have been building for the last few years, like taste, health and food safety, plus concern, especially among young people, about global warming. 
 But, Mr. Ball said, ''The big one is the price spike.'' The striking rise in the cost of staples like bread and milk has been accompanied by increases in the price of fruits and vegetables.
 ''Food prices have spiked because of fuel prices and they redounded to the benefit of the garden,'' Mr. Ball said. ''People are driving less, taking fewer vacations, so there is more time to garden.''
 Each spring for the last five years, the Garden Writers Association has had TechnoMetrica Market Intelligence, a polling firm, conduct a national consumer telephone survey asking gardeners what makes up the greatest share of their garden budgets. ''The historic priorities are lawns, annuals, perennials, then vegetables, followed by trees and shrubs,'' said Robert LaGasse, executive director of the association. This year, vegetables went from fourth place to second, which Mr. LaGasse called ''an enormous attitude shift.''
 People like Rita Gartin of Ames, Iowa, are part of that shift. Last year she kept a small garden. This year it has tripled in size into a five-by-seven-foot plot because, Ms. Gartin said, ''The cost of everything is going up and I was looking to lose a few pounds, too; so it's a win-win situation all around.''
 Ms. Gartin, who fits gardening into her 12-hour workday as an interior designer and property manager, is not intimidated by the 20 kinds of vegetables she has planted: she was raised on a farm with a giant garden. A fence has been erected to keep the deer and people out, and it's where the pole beans and snap peas are already climbing.
 She is ready to take a stab at canning, but reserves the right to freeze everything instead, she said.
 ''I probably spent maybe $50 for everything and that's less than a week's cost of groceries or the price of a gym,'' she said.
 Seed companies and garden centers say they didn't see the rush coming. There wasn't any buildup last year, said Barbara Melera, the co-owner of the D. Landreth Seed Company in New Freedom, Pa., who takes the pulse of gardeners at the 13 garden shows she attends around the country each year.
 ''We pack for all the shows and bring 16 different beans, 10 packets for each kind,'' Ms. Melera said. In earlier years, by the time the shows end in March, she said, ''we are lucky if we have sold two of the 10 packets.''
 ''This year,'' she said, ''we sold out the first show and literally sold hundreds. We never sell any corn; this year we sold out of corn by the end of the season. We saw the same thing in the mail order business.''
 She said the greatest demand was for what she calls ''survival vegetables'': peas, beans, corn, beets, carrots, broccoli, kale, spinach and the lettuces. ''It was so different from what it has been in prior years,'' she added.
 Randy Martell, one of the owners of the Garden Factory in Rochester, says it isn't just vegetables. ''The potted fruit trees were sold out by the first week of May,'' he said. ''Blueberries, raspberries and grapes are sold out. I think those sales have doubled. Overall sales are up about 30 percent.'' 
 Dottie Wright, greenhouse manager at one of the Dammann's Lawn, Garden and Landscaping Centers in Indianapolis, said she talks to people every day who are starting their first vegetable garden. ''If they don't have a yard they try containers for tomatoes and herbs. We can't keep the herbs in this year.''
 Thrilled as gardening experts are about this phenomenon, they know that many first timers don't have any idea how much sweat equity is involved.
 ''Many people I sold seeds to have never gardened before,'' Ms. Melera said, ''and we have to find a way to educate them so the experience is successful. They have got to be taught.''
 Mr. Ball of Burpee knows some of the new gardeners won't stick with gardening beyond the first year. ''Some people can't get with the idea of digging a hole; getting buggy, sticky and hot,'' he said. ''Gardening is an active hobby; it's a commitment.''
 Doreen G. Howard, a former garden editor for Woman's Day and now a writer for The American Gardener, is one of the committed. She has had a vegetable garden for most of the last 25 years. This year she has quadrupled the size of her vegetable plot in Roscoe, Ill., because of the economy and because she thinks the quality of store-bought produce has deteriorated. Once vegetables were just 5 percent of her garden; now they are 20 percent.
 ''Food prices have gotten to the point where we are seeing the difference,'' she said. ''It's pushing our budget and we are a two-income family. It was never a concern before.'' Ms. Howard said her grocery bill for two went from $100 a week to $140 a week this year.
 She has chosen many vegetables that freeze well, investing in a secondhand freezer to store the bounty. She plans to dry the herbs that grow on the back porch next to boxes of mesclun, and to make pickles from the cucumbers and raisins from the grapes -- her newest addition. And she is looking forward to a cellar full of Peruvian blue potatoes.
 Some of Ms. Howard's increased harvest will also go to food pantries through an organization called Plant a Row for the Hungry, which encourages gardeners to plant extra vegetables to share with the poor. 
 ''I'm hoping to take $20 a week off my grocery bill,'' she said. This is in the low range, according to Mr. Ball, who says a $100 investment will produce $1,000 to $1,700 worth of vegetables.
 Ms. Gartin, now in her second year, says gardening is worth the effort. 
 ''I got soft calluses from hoeing and digging,'' she said, adding cheerfully, ''but my fingernails are still pretty -- long and not chipped. I probably spent 30 hours putting the garden in, and when I'd come into the house I'd be covered in sweat. But now it's pretty easy because of all the rain we've had.''
 And the vegetables, she said, are ''awesome.'' ''It's a totally different flavor from what you buy in the store. It's exciting to go out and pick the fruits of your labor.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SWEATING FOR DINNER: Doreen Howard, above, of Roscoe, Ill., and Rita Gartin, below, of Ames, Iowa, have increased the size of their vegetable patches. Seed companies and garden centers are seeing large increases in sales.(PHOTOGRAPHS, TOP AND LEFT, BY MIA AIGOTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ABOVE, STEPHEN MALLY)(pg. F10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (91%); ARMIES (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (76%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FOOD SAFETY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (66%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (62%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%)

COMPANY: W ATLEE BURPEE CO (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (66%); SIC0181 ORNAMENTAL FLORICULTURE & NURSERY PRODUCTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



262 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Study Shows Colorado Has Largest Rise in Child Poverty

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Colorado experienced the nation's largest rate of growth in impoverished children from 2000 to 2006, according to a study released Tuesday. 
 The study, by the Colorado Children's Campaign, a nonprofit group that focuses on child welfare, said that the most recent census data show that 180,000 children -- 15.7 percent of the state total -- were living in poverty in Colorado in 2006, a 73 percent increase since 2000. 
 New Hampshire and Delaware experienced the second- and third-largest rates of increase in child poverty, about 47 percent and 45 percent respectively. 
 No single factor can explain the increase in Colorado, the study said, but a growing number of single parent households, a shortage of jobs for lower wage workers and a low rate of high school graduation contributed. 
 Shifting demographics also played a role, with an increase in the number of Hispanic children, who are more likely to live in poverty or drop out of high school, the study said. 
 ''What the data is telling us is that we're headed in the wrong direction in terms of taking care of our lower-income population,'' the president of the Colorado Children's Campaign, Megan Ferland, said. 
 Ms. Ferland cited another contributing variable, which she called the ''Colorado paradox'': well-educated transplants drawn to a state that also has many poorly educated residents. 
 ''We have too many of our working class families who are actually slipping into low-income brackets and becoming families who are living in extreme poverty,'' Ms. Ferland said. 
 The most pronounced rates of child poverty were found in urban centers like Denver and in southern rural areas like Alamosa and Costilla Counties.
 Minority children were particularly affected. The number of the state's American Indian children living in poverty increased by 473 percent, the report said, and the number of impoverished black children grew by 116 percent. In contrast, the number of impoverished white children grew by 57 percent, and for Asian children, it declined by 10 percent. 
 At a news conference on Tuesday, Gov. Bill Ritter Jr. called the statistics ''awful'' and said that ''they clearly demonstrate that we have a responsibility to people who live on the margins.'' 
 ''It's intolerable that 180,000 children are living in poverty in this state,'' said Mr. Ritter, a Democrat who took office last year. 
 In a supplemental document, the Colorado Children's Campaign said the state spent less per capita on its residents than its neighbors to the north and south, Wyoming and New Mexico. Those states experienced a decrease in child poverty during the same six years as the study. 
 Colorado ranks 44th in per capita spending, according to the Colorado Fiscal Policy Institute, a research and advocacy group that focuses on tax and budget issues. 
 ''This report and this finding validate a lot of what we largely know, in that Colorado continues to lag behind in key areas of public investment,'' an institute spokesman, Scott Downes, said. ''That prevents us from creating the kind of future that we want for our communities, our children and generations to come.'' 
 Mr. Downes attributed the situation in part to a ''knot of fiscal restraints'' like a 1992 constitutional amendment, the Tax Payer's Bill of Rights, that was intended to restrain state spending. 
 Colorado remained slightly below the national rate of child poverty of about 18 percent. ''But the concern is the rate at which we're growing,'' Ms. Ferland said.

GRAPHIC: MAP: SHIFTS IN POVERTY ACROSS THE UNITED STATES: In the United States as a whole, the number of children under age 18 who live below the federal poverty line grew by almost 9% between 2000 and 2006. (Source: Colorado Children's Campaign) Map showing the percentage change in the number of children in poverty between 2000 and 2006. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (94%); CHILD POVERTY (92%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); FAMILY (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); POVERTY RATES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); PARENTS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); CENSUS (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (70%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

PERSON: BILL RITTER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



263 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Squeezing Big-Box Retailing Into Small City Spaces

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
When David Blumenfeld, a developer in Syosset, N.Y., bought a long-dormant wire factory in the East Harlem section of Manhattan in 1994 with the intention of turning it into a vertical shopping center for big-box stores, the notion that quintessentially suburban retailers could adjust to an urban setting had yet to be fully tested.
 So to design his project, East River Plaza, Mr. Blumenfeld chose GreenbergFarrow, an Atlanta firm that has designed 1,800 stores for Home Depot since 1979. 
 ''They had a very good sense of what the tenants needed to make this thing work,'' Mr. Blumenfeld said recently. 
 After many delays, East River Plaza, which stretches from 116th Street and 119th Street along Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive, is expected to open in October 2009, Mr. Blumenfeld said. It will have 485,000 square feet of retail space on five floors and parking for 1,248 cars -- all on only six acres. A suburban project of this size would encompass at least 40 acres, Mr. Blumenfeld said. 
 These days, urban big-box retailing is no longer a novelty, and East River Plaza will not be the only shopping center of its kind to squeeze into a densely populated New York neighborhood.
 It will not even be the only one to bear GreenbergFarrow's stamp. The firm also worked on two more recently planned projects that are under construction: the Gateway Center at Bronx Terminal Market, at 149th Street in the South Bronx, with one million square feet, and Rego Park Mall II, a 600,000-square-foot addition to a mall on Queens Boulevard and 63rd Road in Queens. Both centers are expected to be completed next year.
 GreenbergFarrow's other projects in the city include River Plaza, a shopping center with 235,000 square feet that opened in 2004 on 225th Street, near the Harlem River, as well as the Ikea store that is scheduled to open in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn next week. 
 Developers of urban office towers often aspire to make a statement with a strikingly original design by a celebrity architect, but those who hope to lure big-box retailers have more mundane priorities. 
 GreenbergFarrow specializes in the logistical challenges that retailers do not usually encounter in the suburbs, where stores do not need to be stacked on top of one another. Much of the firm's focus is on how to get people and merchandise in and out of the stores. 
 People might visit a shopping district like SoHo or Bleecker Street in Greenwich Village as an enjoyable way to pass a few hours, but they shop in big-box stores purely for practical reasons and are annoyed if they are forced to linger, said John R. Clifford, a principal of GreenbergFarrow. ''One experience is recreational and the other is all about convenience,'' he said in an interview at the company's Manhattan office.
 Ease of access is a test for big-box centers, Mr. Clifford said. ''We always try to make the user experience intuitive,'' he said. ''Would my grandmother be able to figure this out?''
 From the outset, Mr. Blumenfeld, the principal of the Blumenfeld Development Group, hoped to attract retailers like Home Depot and Costco, whose suburban customers are used to parking in a big lot and wheeling carts and pallets along flat surfaces. 
 Since a parking lot was out of the question at East River Plaza, GreenbergFarrow tried to make parking in the garage as similar as possible to a suburban experience. The parking surfaces themselves are flat and accessible directly from the stores by bridges, and shoppers enter and exit by means of circular ramps located at two corners of the parking structure. 
 The garage's design also addresses the concerns of retailers that carts loaded with heavy material like lumber would pose a danger on sloping ramps, said Navid Maqami, a principal of GreenbergFarrow. But this design added tremendously to the cost. ''This is the most inefficient way to build a parking structure,'' Mr. Blumenfeld said. 
 Typically, 180 to 220 square feet are allocated for each car, he said. Because of space taken up by the circular ramps, the East River Plaza garage allocates 550 square feet per space instead, raising the cost of a parking space from $12,000 to $50,000, he said.
 The $440 million cost of the project is nearly triple what was estimated when the city approved it in 1999. The facade, which will be wrapped in a steel mesh American flag, was designed by a Pritzker Prize-winning architect, Kevin Roche. Blumenfeld is developing East River Plaza with Forest City Ratner, which was also the partner of The New York Times Company in its headquarters building on Eighth Avenue.
 Home Depot has been part of the East River Plaza project for about a decade. Two years ago, the retailer signed a 30-year lease for 110,000 square feet of space. But like many national retailers, Home Depot is trimming its expansion plans as a result of the weak economy, and the company is talking to two warehouse clubs -- Costco and BJ's -- about subletting its space, Mr. Blumenfeld said. A Home Depot spokeswoman said the company is ''re-evaluating'' the site.
 As it happens, Costco had counted on becoming one of the anchor stores at East River Plaza, but instead the developers cut a deal with Target in 2006, leading Jeffrey H. Brotman, Costco's chairman, to complain publicly about being shunted aside. 
 Mr. Brotman said the talks with Home Depot are in the early stages. ''We are simply exploring if it will work physically,'' he said in an e-mail message. ''If so, then we would need to see if we can reach financial terms.''
 If Home Depot does sublet its space, customers can shop at another Home Depot store at the nearby Gateway Center at Bronx Terminal Market. GreenbergFarrow designed the master plan for the Gateway Center, which is similar in concept to East River Plaza, except that it has two retail buildings instead of one. Asked about the look-alike design, Mr. Blumenfeld said, ''We'll call it flattery for now.'' 
 Glenn Goldstein, president of Related Retail, the developer of the Gateway Center, said the design was inspired by the Dadeland Mall in Miami, not East River Plaza. He said he was unconcerned about the proximity of the two shopping centers. ''We feel the market is certainly deep enough for both projects to be successful,'' Mr. Goldstein said.
 GreenbergFarrow's first completed New York project was Queens Place in the Elmhurst section of Queens, where a Stern's department store was converted into a home for Target, Best Buy and other large-format retailers, Mr. Maqami said. ''Everybody talks in terms of big boxes,'' he said. ''But these are the department stores of today.''
 Now that big-box developers have shown they are willing to modify their formats, city dwellers across the country should expect to find more such stores in their midst, said Michael D. Beyard, a senior resident fellow at the Urban Land Institute, an industry research group. 
 With the housing slowdown, fewer shopping centers are likely to be built outside urban areas. ''Retailers have a herd instinct,'' he said. 
 ''The changing economy, including the price of gasoline, would favor the continuing development of these projects in the city.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John R. Clifford, left, and Navid Maqami of GreenbergFarrow designed East River Plaza, right, expected to open in October 2009.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A rendering of Gateway Center at Bronx Terminal Market by Brennan Beer Gorman Achitects.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENNAN BEER GORMAN ARCHITECTS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); SUBURBS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



264 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Energy Agency Reduces Forecast for Oil Demand

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Global oil demand is expected to grow at a slower pace than previously expected this year as a result of record prices and shrinking subsidies in some emerging countries, a leading energy forecaster said on Tuesday.
 But because of lagging investments in new sources of oil, the growth in consumption is still expected to outpace new supplies, according to the latest monthly report by the International Energy Agency, a policy adviser for industrial countries.
 ''These abnormally high prices are largely explained by fundamentals,'' the report said. ''Supply growth so far this year has been poor and higher prices are needed to choke off demand to balance the market.'' 
 Oil consumption is expected to reach 86.8 million barrels a day in 2008, 800,000 barrels a day higher than in 2007. In January, the energy agency expected demand to grow by 2 million barrels a day this year. In its latest report, the agency pared its forecast by 80,000 barrels a day from last month.
 It is the fifth time that the energy agency has cut its outlook in the face of rising prices. In part, demand will slow as India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Taiwan lift some fuel subsidies. Energy subsidies in developing countries have been blamed for shielding consumers from the true cost of energy, and encouraging consumption.
 In developed countries, oil demand is expected to fall by half a million barrels a day this year, almost entirely on a drop in consumption of 510,000 barrels a day in the United States, to 20.28 million barrels a day.
 Still, slowing demand in industrialized countries will be more than offset by growth in China and the Middle East. Chinese oil demand is expected to rise by 410,000 barrels a day, reaching 7.95 million barrels a day this year, while Middle East consumption is expected to rise by 330,000 barrels a day, to 6.84 million barrels a day.
 The energy agency expects the global market to remain tight and expects only modest expansions in new oil supplies as large producers like Russia and Mexico disappointed the market and investments from OPEC producers lagged. Oil supplies increased by 490,000 barrels a day in May to reach 86.6 million barrels a day. 
 Most growth in extra supplies will come from nonconventional sources, like natural gas liquids, gas condensates, synthetic fuels from Canada or bio-fuels, the agency said.
 The mandate of the I.E.A., which was established after the oil shocks of 1974, includes coordinating the emergency responses of industrialized countries when supply is disrupted. The last time the energy agency intervened was in 2005 after Hurricane Katrina knocked out production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico.
 The precise impact of higher costs on energy consumption remains uncertain but many analysts believe that the agency's forecasts are still too optimistic. Energy analysts at Merrill Lynch, who pared down their outlook for global demand this year, said oil prices would have to rise even more in order to suppress consumption globally.
 ''While demand destruction is on the way, oil prices may still spike further in the near-term to cause behavior change in consumers and governments alike,'' Merrill Lynch said in a report released Monday. ''In effect, demand rationing will likely have to occur at a large scale before we see a reversal of the recent price trends.'' 
 Meanwhile, a new federal government study forecast that gasoline prices would peak at $4.15 a gallon in August. Gasoline jumped above $4 for the first time on a national average last weekend. In its last report, the federal Energy Information Administration had forecast gas prices would peak at $3.73 a gallon in June.
 Oil prices, which are up 40 percent this year, fell $3.04, settling at $131.31 a barrel on Tuesday on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The drop came as the dollar rebounded strongly against the euro. Oil prices have risen more than sixfold since 2002.
 The rapid rise in oil prices is turning into a major political issue in the United States and Europe, stoking inflation and contributing to slower economic growth. Rising energy costs are expected to be discussed at the forthcoming Group of Eight meeting in Japan this weekend. 
 But despite the concerns over economic growth, investors and energy executives seem increasingly comfortable with the prospect of rising oil prices. Several prominent Wall Street banks predict that oil will touch $150 to $200 a barrel in the short term. 
 The chief executive of Gazprom of Russia, one of the world's largest energy companies, said Tuesday that he expected prices to reach $250 a barrel ''in the foreseeable future'' because of competition for energy resources.
 For the first time since the oil rally began in 2002, the agency raised the possibility that countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development could engineer an emergency release of their strategic oil stocks to push down prices. 
 The move would be politically delicate, since the stocks are kept to make up sudden supply disruptions caused by wars, but would reflect the growing unease of government in the face of record prices. 
 ''There is also another supply response to consider: an I.E.A. strategic stock release,'' the report said. ''Given that OPEC countries are running close to flat out, the market can take comfort that the I.E.A. is watching developments very closely and is prepared to act quickly if necessary.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of India's main opposition party protested in New Delhi on Tuesday after the government withdrew gasoline and diesel fuel subsidies, causing prices to rise by 10 percent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANISH ISMAIL/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); HURRICANES (71%); BIOFUELS (66%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (70%) GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); EAST CHINA (53%) MIDDLE EAST (92%); INDIA (91%); MALAYSIA (79%); CHINA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



265 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Another Failure on Climate Change

 BODY:
The most obvious lesson to be learned from the Senate's failure to mount any sort of grown-up debate on climate change last week is that the country needs a new occupant in the White House. 
 By that we mean a president who not only understands and cares deeply about the issue -- which both Senators Barack Obama and John McCain say they do, and which President Bush clearly does not -- but who is willing to invest the time and the political capital necessary to push good legislation through Congress. 
 The bill sought to reduce American emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases by nearly 70 percent by 2050, short of what most climate scientists believe is necessary but an important first step.
 The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, trumpeted climate change as ''the most important issue facing the world today,'' and all of the players insisted they understood the stakes. Yet after three-and-one-half days of unhelpful partisan sniping, the Democratic leadership pulled the bill from the floor when only 48 senators voted to prevent a threatened Republican filibuster.
 There was blame enough to go around. Republicans and some Democrats complained -- not without reason -- that the bill's manager, Barbara Boxer, had spent too little time in preliminary hearings discussing its potential economic impact. She also confused matters by adding last-minute amendments, including one aimed at reducing the federal deficit, that seemed to have little to do with the issue at hand. 
 The timing was terrible. A bill that would inevitably raise energy prices did not sit well with senators dealing with record gasoline prices. And a Republican leadership more interested in protecting industry than the environment behaved like babies, at one point spitefully forcing a complete reading of the 492-page bill, sapping any political momentum. 
 Ms. Boxer and the environmental community still tried for a positive spin, noting that 54 senators altogether -- including six absentees who wrote letters expressing support -- favored the bill, a substantial increase over the 38 senators who supported a less-aggressive measure in 2005. 
 Yet of those 54, about 10 -- among them liberal, rust-belt senators -- said they would not have actually voted for the bill unless it was amended to provide more help to industries (and their workers) that would bear the heaviest burden of reducing emissions.
 There are other fault lines. One huge issue that was not even addressed in last week's truncated discussion is what to do with the enormous sums of money likely to be raised by selling emission quotas to industry. Some senators would invest most of that money in clean technologies -- wind, solar, even nuclear power -- and in a new generation of coal-fired plants that could capture and store carbon emissions. Others would return a sizable share of the proceeds to consumers to help ease the pain of higher energy bills. 
 No one ever said that dealing with climate change would be easy or cost-free. But we expected better from the Senate. We hope the next president will have the necessary conviction and stamina -- and a real sense of urgency. Too much time has been wasted. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); POLITICS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); POWER PLANTS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (73%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (70%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (70%); WIND ENERGY (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (58%); BARBARA BOXER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



266 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Is the Highest in 13 Months

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The trade deficit increased to the highest level in 13 months in April as America's bill for foreign crude oil soared to a record high.
 The Commerce Department reported on Tuesday that the gap between what the nation imports and what it sells abroad rose by 7.8 percent, to $60.9 billion, the largest imbalance since March 2007. 
 The growing deficit was driven by a $4.3 billion increase in crude oil imports, which jumped to a record $29.3 billion in April on an average price of a $96.81 a barrel. With oil trading now frequently trading above $130 a barrel, the cost of imports is likely to rise further in coming months.
 United States export sales totaled $155.5 billion in April, up 3.3 percent, reflecting big gains in sales of commercial aircraft, farm machinery, medical equipment and computers. But this increase was swamped by a 4.5 percent rise in imports, which also set a record at $216.4 billion, reflecting the huge increase in oil as well as big gains in imports of autos and consumer goods.
 The April deficit was $4.4 billion higher than the March imbalance of $56.5 billion.
 The deficit through the first four months of this year is running at an annual rate of $707.5 billion, up slightly from last year's deficit of $700.3 billion, which was a 7 percent drop from 2006. The improvement last year came after the trade imbalance set records for five consecutive years.
 Many economists are looking for the deficit to shrink again this year as a sharp economic slowdown in the United States cuts into consumer demand for imports and the weak dollar helps American exports.
 After tacitly accepting the decline in the dollar for years to help exports, Bush administration officials are now talking about the need for a stronger dollar, a reflection of the pain being inflicted on Americans by high gasoline prices. While a weak dollar makes American exports more competitive on overseas markets, oil producers demand higher prices for crude oil, which is priced in dollars.
 The politically charged deficit with China, which had fallen sharply in March, rose by 25.9 percent in April, to $20.2 billion, reflecting higher imports of Chinese products like cellphones and clothing. 
 America's trade deficit with Canada increased by 18.6 percent in April, to $7.6 billion, the highest level since January 2006.
 The deficit with Mexico rose by 14.2 percent, to $6.8 billion, while the imbalance with the European Union increased 14 percent, to $8.5 billion. The deficit with the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries rose 10.5 percent, to a record $15.6 billion.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department)Chart details imports and exports in line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); IMPORT PRICES (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); EXPORT PROMOTION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (69%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



267 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: U.S. News Plans to Publish Biweekly and Expand Consumer Focus

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Critics have carped for some time that U.S. News & World Report had stopped being a newsweekly -- that both ''news'' and ''weekly'' were questionable descriptions.
 Now the magazine, which will print just 32 issues this year, has made it official: come January, it will publish every other week, while continuing to expand the consumer reporting and product rankings it has bet its future on.
 Executives at the magazine said that the change was not a failing but a new identity to be embraced. 
 ''We've been moving in this direction for a long time,'' said Brian Kelly, executive editor of U.S. News, though he insisted the magazine was not giving up on news.
 The transformation highlights the struggle of all newsmagazines to find a niche, a purpose, that will stem the slide of print readership and revenue. U.S. News hopes that advertisers will be drawn to a biweekly schedule because their ads will stay on newsstands a week longer.
 ''The question is, can you do fewer things, better?'' Mr. Kelly said. ''We think a combination of news analysis and consumer service is our sweet spot.''
 U.S. News has long been identified with its annual rankings of colleges and hospitals, and with advice for consumers. Last year, the magazine's owner, Mortimer B. Zuckerman, placed a big bet in that direction, building a Web site of vehicle ratings and reviews that has drawn heavy advertising, and promising similar sites for other types of products.
 While many magazine categories still fare well, newsmagazines face the same challenges as newspapers: the proliferation of around-the-clock news sources and the migration of readers and advertisers to the Internet.
 In addition, two British imports, The Week and The Economist, have made inroads in the American market, increasing pressure on Time, Newsweek and U.S. News. The Week offers summaries of articles published elsewhere, covering more bases than its competitors, but in less depth and with a lower cost structure. The Economist is at the opposite extreme, with original, in-depth reporting, commentary and analysis.
 Time and Newsweek try to fill all those roles to varying degrees, while also competing online in the 24-hour breaking-news cycle.
 But U.S. News, with fewer resources, decided years ago not to try to keep pace on news reporting and to put more emphasis on service reporting. It went from 46 issues last year to just 32 planned for this year, reducing printing and distribution costs. Many of those are special issues with nonnews covers, designed not to grow stale in two weeks on newsstands.
 ''If you want to survive as a weekly, either you are going to become a news digest like The Week, or you're going to move more toward one or two really good pieces of in-depth reporting, plus analysis and commentary, like Time and The Economist,'' said Samir Husni, chairman of the journalism department at the University of Mississippi, who follows the magazine industry.
 For years, the three major newsmagazines have struggled to prop up their circulations, offering deep subscription discounts. The Economist takes the opposite approach, charging more at the newsstand, $5.99, and offering few discounts.
 The three American weeklies partly reversed course in the last 18 months, shedding some unprofitable circulation. They lowered their rate bases -- the sales they promise to advertisers -- to 3.25 million copies for Time, 2.6 million for Newsweek, and 1.5 million for U.S. News. The Economist has a circulation of 720,000, and The Week 480,000.
 As a privately held company, U.S. News & World Report L.P. does not release financial information, and it is not clear whether it operates at a profit. The magazine's ad pages declined from more than 2,000 in 1999 to 1,640 last year, according to the Magazine Publishers of America. So far this year, the figure is down about 35 percent, largely because of the smaller number of issues.
 ''We're all going to be recalibrating the dial for years,'' Mr. Kelly said of the newsmagazines. ''Nobody's got it figured out yet. Everybody's looking over everybody else's shoulder.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: U.S. News is investing in its niche as a rankings provider. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (90%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); RANKINGS (79%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (76%); NEWSSTANDS (72%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (64%); WEB SITES (64%)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



268 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: SOUTH KOREANS ASSAIL U.S. PACT, SHAKING LEADER

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN; Donald G. McNeil Jr. contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
Tens of thousands of demonstrators filled central Seoul on Tuesday to protest South Korea's decision to resume imports of American beef, hobbling the administration of the country's new president and threatening his efforts to improve relations with the United States.
 The protests, the culmination of six weeks of popular discontent over trade and economic issues, have dealt a sharp blow to President Lee Myung-bak, who was swept into office in December championing a new ''pragmatic'' approach to managing ties with Washington. 
 Mr. Lee made rebuilding South Korea's political and economic alliance with the United States his top priority, while taking a much harder line on North Korea than his predecessor, Roh Moo-hyun.
 The demonstrations prompted Mr. Lee's entire cabinet to offer to resign. It was unclear how many members of his administration would ultimately leave office, but Mr. Lee indicated that he would probably make some changes in his government after just four months in office. 
 Bush administration officials have expressed hopes that Mr. Lee's firm stance on North Korea's nuclear program, which reversed South Korea's previous policy to embrace its neighbor, could persuade the North to end its nuclear program. North Korea promised to dismantle its nuclear weapons facilities under an international accord that has yet to achieve lasting results.
 Both Mr. Lee and President Bush also hoped that Mr. Lee's decision in April to end a five-year ban on American beef would help win support in Congress for a free-trade agreement struck between the governments last year, thus improving relations while helping to revive the sluggish South Korean economy. But some South Korean analysts say Mr. Lee may now come under pressure to take a less accommodating line with Washington.
 The broad unrest reflects popular worries about sagging growth and rising inflation as well as a reaction against Mr. Lee's attempts to push through new trade and regulatory policies favored by foreign investors and big businesses.
 But the most heated issue has been the renewed imports of American beef, which were halted locally after the discovery of a case of mad cow disease in the United States in 2003.
 Stoked by farm groups and unions, as well as sensational media reports, protesters said they feared that American beef would expose the public to mad cow disease, and they accused the government of allowing new imports without insisting on rigorous inspections. Officials in South Korea and the United States say American beef is safe.
 The South Korean government contends that the lifting of the ban was overdue since last September, when the World Organization for Animal Health ruled that American beef did not pose a health risk. But South Korean regulators had hesitated to act, largely because they feared incurring the wrath of nationalistic South Koreans, who have sought to exploit the issue as evidence that the new government cannot stand up to Washington.
 Protesters here called Mr. Lee, whose nickname is the Bulldozer, an ''authoritarian leader,'' out of touch with common people and ''tone deaf'' to popular sentiment. His popularity has plunged below 20 percent in many opinion polls since his government agreed to lift the beef ban. Many accuse him of ramming the measure through without taking account of the health concerns.
 Once hailed as a savior for the economy, which has been stagnating and is overshadowed by China's explosive growth, Mr. Lee now faces an uphill struggle to restore public confidence. His plans to reduce the size of the government and sell some state-owned companies pleased foreign investors but alienated powerful interest groups, including unions and bureaucrats.
 ''The most serious problem for the president is that he has lost the people's confidence,'' said Kang Won-taek, a political scientist at Soongsil University in Seoul. ''People do not trust what he says or what he does.''
 For the past 40 days, Seoul has been rocked by demonstrations, which began as rallies by hundreds of students, who sang, danced and held candles to protest American beef imports. The police put the crowd on Tuesday at 100,000, but organizers estimated it to be as large as 700,000. 
 The protesters appeared to represent a wide range of somewhat contradictory interests. Some demonstrators said they favored the pending free-trade agreement with the United States but disliked Mr. Lee's authoritarian style. Others carried anti-American slogans and vowed to protect the Korean beef industry. Still others said they were mainly motivated by high inflation.
 Seoul reverberated with antigovernment slogans until well past midnight. While people marched by candlelight, loudspeakers blared the songs South Koreans used to sing during their struggle against the military dictators of the 1970s and 1980s.
 The protests took place on the 21st anniversary of the huge pro-democracy demonstrations that helped end authoritarian rule. Overhead, balloons carried banners that said ''Judgment day for Lee Myung-bak'' and ''Renegotiate the beef deal.'' One widely distributed leaflet said, ''Mad cow drives our people mad!'' 
 The agriculture minister, Chung Won-chun, visited the protest site to offer an apology in a speech, but protesters quickly surrounded him, chanting ''Traitor!'' and he was forced to leave.
 Mr. Lee urged the police and protesters to avoid clashes. He promised to be ''humble before the people's voices'' and called for national unity to overcome an economic crisis spawned by stagnant growth and surging prices for oil and other raw materials.
 ''Our economy is faced with a serious difficulty, with prices rising and the economy gradually slowing,'' Mr. Lee said in a speech intended to observe the anniversary of the earlier pro-democracy protests.
 About 50 countries, including South Korea, Taiwan and Japan, closed their doors to American beef after the first confirmed case of mad cow disease in the United States was found in Moses Lake, Wash., in 2003. 
 The defensive reaction of the Agriculture Department after that discovery led to years of skepticism by American consumer groups and difficult negotiations with foreign countries over reopening their markets.
 Bending to pressure from consumer advocates and its own inspector general, who had called inspections seriously flawed, the Agriculture Department expanded testing for the disease in 2005 to about one of every 90 cows slaughtered. The tests suggested that the disease, if present at all in the American beef supply, was at very low levels. (Between 2005 and 2006, tests confirmed the disease in two other cows.) 
 Japan lifted the ban on American beef in late 2005, after a food safety commission ruled that American safety measures were adequate, but reinstated it less than a month later after Japanese inspectors found backbone, prohibited under a trade agreement, in imported veal. Japan lifted the ban again in July 2006.
 Fears re-emerged in Seoul in April after it was revealed that Mr. Lee had agreed to a less restrictive import deal with Washington than did Taiwan and Japan. 
 On Monday, Mr. Lee sent a delegation to Washington to help defuse the crisis and amend the April deal so that the United States would not export beef from cattle older than 30 months, similar to the deals Japan and Taiwan had reached. Younger cattle are believed to be less likely to have mad cow disease. 
 The protests are dampening the hopes of American cattle farmers to regain the South Korean market, which before the 2003 ban was their third largest, worth $800 million. They may alsodamage the free-trade deal's chances for ratification in Congress, where it is opposed by the presumptive Democratic presidential candidate, Senator Barack Obama, and other leaders. 
 Congressional leaders have warned that they will not ratify the free-trade pact unless South Korea fully opens its market to American beef. They also complain that South Korea has not opened its auto market enough even as its car exports to the United States have risen rapidly.
 Surveys show that a majority of South Koreans support a free- trade deal with the United States.
 Still, when Mr. Lee agreed to lift the beef ban, thousands of South Korean students, mainly networking through the Internet, immediately took to the streets, followed by a broader uproar. The efforts became the platform for a wide range of grievances against Mr. Lee's policies. Opposition parties, which lost the presidential election, and farmers and labor unionists, who fear a free-trade deal may hurt their livelihoods, seized on the beef scare to regain some leverage.
 But it was difficult to tell who was the main force behind the recent series of demonstrations. ''Most demonstrators are just ordinary people networking through the Internet and spontaneously and voluntarily joining the rally,'' Mr. Kang said.
 Also on Tuesday, thousands of conservative activists supporting the beef and free-trade deals staged a smaller protest in Seoul. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thousands of South Koreans protested in Seoul on Tuesday against imports of American beef. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONG-A ILBO, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A1)
 South Koreans with candles gathered near the American Embassy in Seoul on Tuesday to protest the government's trade policies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JO YONG-HAK/REUTERS) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BEEF (89%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (89%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (88%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); MEATS (78%); INSPECTIONS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); INFLATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); DISARMAMENT (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%); ANIMALS (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (51%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



269 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2377 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 11, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 IN EFFORT TO AVERT DISASTER,
 China Lets Ruins Wash Away
 Low-lying areas in one of the towns most devastated by the May 12 earthquake were flooded as a torrent of water spilled from a dangerous lake formed by landslides, dislodging wrecked homes, cars and corpses. The surge of floodwater into the town, Beichuan, was part of an effort by engineers and soldiers to drain Tangjiashan, one of more than 30 so-called quake lakes that were formed by landslides. PAGE A6 
 INDIA GROWTH BATTERED BY INFLATION
 Since a low-key economic liberalizer named Manmohan Singh became prime minister four years ago, India's economy has soared by nearly 9 percent a year on average and per capita income is nearly double that of a decade ago. But recently, in quick succession, came sharp rises in the cost of food and fuel, felt the world over but especially painful for India, where more than a quarter of people live on a dollar a day. Inflation is now at its highest level in more than three years. PAGE A6 
 BRING YOUR CULTURAL COMPASS
 Ask for directions in Cairo, and Egyptians will feel obligated to try to help, even if they send you off in the wrong direction. There is a lesson in this confusion that has more value than merely cautioning tourists to bring a map: The United States' relations with Egypt are strained. From the man on the street to the president, rightly or wrongly, Egyptians are feeling disrespected by Washington. They see a demonstrated failure to understand what they value -- even when those values mean sending someone off in the wrong direction. PAGE A8 
 DOUBT GREETS SOMALIAN PEACE DEAL
 Peace is no small feat in Somalia, and if the reaction to the accord struck this week is any gauge, peace may still be a long way off. Militant Islamist leaders immediately rejected the deal, which had been signed by moderate Islamists and the beleaguered transitional government of Somalia. ''The so-called deal is rubbish and inconsequential,'' said one Islamist leader. ''It will not in any way result in peace.'' PAGE A11 
 PROTESTERS LOSE INTEREST IN BUSH
 The young anarchists, middle-aged peace activists and established left-wing politicians in Berlin have at least one thing in common: none bothered to keep a six-year tradition alive by organizing a protest against President Bush's arrival. ''Bush is not even popular in the role of the enemy anymore,'' wrote Der Tagesspiegel newspaper. ''It just isn't worth it anymore,'' said one Bush opponent who soaked up the sun instead of protest. ''He isn't president much longer anyway.'' PAGE A6 
 Spain Arrests 8 It Says Aided Qaeda A11 
 Pakistani Lawyers Resume Protest A12 
 NATIONAL
 GATES ATTEMPTS TO QUELL CONCERNS
 In Air Force Ranks
 Defense Secretary Robert Gates has been meeting with members of the Air Force to address concerns throughout the ranks in the wake of the ouster of the branch's two top officials. The question-and-answer sessions -- described by aides and the defense secretary himself as ''thoughtful and pointed'' -- were closed to the media. Much of the sessions were devoted to considering what kind of war America might be drawn into next. PAGE A19 
 JUDGE ALTERS EXECUTION PROCEDURE
 A state court judge in Ohio ordered the state to stop using a common combination of three chemicals to execute condemned inmates because they may produce excruciating pain. But in what legal experts said was a first, the judge ordered the state to start using a single large dose of barbiturate, the alternative method that opponents of the death penalty had unsuccessfully urged on the Supreme Court and that is common in animal euthanasia. PAGE A16 
 THE COLORADO PARADOX
 Colorado continues to draw a substantial number of well-educated, well-heeled transplants, but the state experienced the nation's largest jump in the rate of children in poverty -- 73 percent -- from 2000 and 2006. The study cited a rise in the number of single-parent households, a shortage of jobs for lower wage workers in Colorado and a low high school graduation rate as factors. PAGE A17 
 FINDING AN OUTBREAK'S SOURCE
 The salmonella outbreak associated with raw tomatoes has sickened 167 people in 17 states, and the F.D.A. said that it hoped to soon announce the contamination's source. But health experts said that the problems that have caused a spate of food recalls in recent years, including those involving peanut butter, cantaloupes and spinach, are likely to worsen. PAGE A17 
 FIGHTING FOR THEIR CRACKER
 The Crown Pilot cracker -- a cross between an unsalted saltine and hardtack -- has long been a staple of New England homes. Nabisco, its manufacturer, discontinued the cracker in 1996. After intense lobbying from cracker crunchers, the company brought the cracker back in 1997 in an elaborate ceremony aboard a ship in Boston Harbor. But the company has done away with the Crown Pilot once more, and cracker lovers throughout Maine are not going to let it go without a fight. PAGE A16 
 BUSINESS
 KERKORIAN RAISES HIS STAKE IN FORD MOTOR COMPANY
 Kirk Kerkorian's share in the Ford Motor Company is about to get bigger. The financier said stockholders offered to sell him nearly half of the automaker's outstanding shares, which would bring his piece of the company to 5.5 percent. His company, Tracinda, will buy 20 million shares of Ford at $8.50 each -- a modest premium over the shares' value a month ago. PAGE C8 
 U.S. NEWS LESS OFTEN
 Come January, U.S. News and World Report will officially switch from a weekly to a biweekly, and it will to expand the consumer reporting and product rankings it has bet its future on. The move is an attempt to find a niche that will offset the loss of revenue and print readership, and the company's executives said the change was not an admission of failure. ''The question is, can you do fewer things, better,'' the magazine's executive editor said. ''We think a combination of news analysis and consumer service is our sweet spot.'' PAGE C3 
 CONVICTED BUSINESSMAN DISAPPEARS
 What happened to Samuel Israel III? Shortly before the former hedge fund manager was supposed to report to federal prison on Monday -- he was convicted in April of cheating investors out of $450 million -- his burgundy 2006 GMC Envoy was found abandoned on a bridge over the Hudson River with the phrase ''Suicide Is Painless'' written in dust on its hood and the keys still in the ignition. The police have recovered no body, and some of the investors suing Mr. Israel believe it's just another fraud. PAGE C1 
 A STIFF (IF VEILED) REBUKE
 Neelie Kroes, the European Union's competition commissioner, recommended that business and governments use software based on open standards. ''No citizen or company should be forced or encouraged to choose a closed technology over an open one,'' she told a conference in Brussels. And though she never mentioned any company by name, it was clear to what she was referring when she cited the only company in European antitrust enforcement history that has been fined for refusing to comply with orders -- Microsoft. PAGE C8 
 OIL DEMAND OUTPACES SUPPLY
 Although global oil demand is expected to grow at a slower pace than previously expected, the growth in consumption is still going to outpace new supplies, according to the International Energy Agency, a policy adviser for industrial countries. Demand in developed nations is expected to fall by half a million barrels a day this year, but that will be offset by growth in China and the Middle East. PAGE C3 
 NEW YORK REPORT
 ABRAMOFF CASE LEADS TO RAID
 Of Albany Lobbying Firm
 The F.B.I. raided the offices of Powers & Company, an influential Albany lobbying firm as part of the latest investigation connected to the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal in Washington. The raid was part of an investigation of former Representative John Sweeney, an Albany-area Republican with ties to Mr. Abramoff, though the connection to Powers & Company is not clear. PAGE C19
 CRACKDOWN ON FIRE CODE VIOLATORS
 Fire officials said that a backlog of offenders with open fire safety violation cases since 2000 had reached about 4,000. To whittle away at that number, the city has arrested 100 people this month. ''We are going to stop when the problem is reduced, if not eliminated; but that is not the case yet, because we have thousands,'' said Rose Gill Hearn, the commissioner of the Department of Investigation. PAGE C18
 A SOUP KITCHEN FROM THE FUTURE
 The new St. John's Bread and Life center in Bedford-Stuyvesant looks more like a SoHo showroom than a soup kitchen. The $4.6 million in renovations to the center's new location come with one nifty and groundbreaking feature: touch-screen computers sit lined up on a table that offer people a choice in what they eat, something that is often overlooked in charity. ''It's not dignified,'' the center's executive director said. ''People don't shop like that.'' PAGE C19
 ARTS
 A SECOND DATE 
 With a Little Black Dress
 The American soprano Deborah Voigt was fired from a production of ''Ariadne auf Naxos'' after the director said she was too heavy to wear a sleek black cocktail dress that he deemed integral to his concept. But next week, she is scheduled to return to star in the production at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, in London. And now, the newly svelte Ms. Voigt is, um, making light of the matter. PAGE B1 
 LEGENDS, WITH DADDY ISSUES
 The documentary ''Back Nine at Cherry Hills: The Legends of the 1960 U.S. Open,'' focuses on the three seminal golfers in that tournament -- Ben Hogan, Arnold Palmer and Jack Nicklaus -- and their psychodramas with their respective fathers. Richard Sandomir writes that focusing on the players' backstories is a clever way to evade a major archival obstacle: there is nothing left of NBC's original broadcast of the tournament. PAGE B3 
 A DEPARTURE FROM THE FRINGE
 The violinist Jenny Scheinman's latest musical outing features vocals -- a first for her, and part of a conscious attempt at making ''music for regular people'' after long composing music with a decidedly fringe aesthetic. She arrived at the fringe honestly: growing up with no electricity in what she called ''the westernmost house in the continental United States,'' with her folk musician parents. PAGE B1 
 AT THE BOTTOM OF THE WORLD
 Werner Herzog lets viewers of ''Encounters at the End of the World,'' his new documentary set in Antarctica, know that there will be no marching penguins. There are penguins, to be sure, but Manohla Dargis says that the ones in the film may trouble your sleep. She says the movie itself is like a dream, ''at once vivid and vague, easy to grasp and somehow beyond reach.'' PAGE B1 
 DINING
 AS COST OF FOOD RISES,
 Thumbs Are Going Green
 Driven by higher grocery costs and a stumbling economy, a growing number of Americans have taken up vegetable gardening for the first time. One Kentucky woman hand-tilled a quarter acre in her backyard and put in 15 tomato plants, five rows of corn, potatoes, cucumbers, squash, okra, peas, watermelon and green beans. ''One organic cucumber is $3 and I can produce it for pennies,'' she says. PAGE D1 
 NO PICKY EATERS HERE
 A 9-year-old who reaches for second helpings of spinach, whose favorite meal is Sichuanese snails and whose favorite snack is Tibetan yak jerky. A 13-year-old who orders goat testicles. There is no place for picky eaters in China, Matthew Forney writes. His children have grown up in Beijing, where they learned to eat anything. Tips on the art of getting kids to eat squid tentacles. PAGE D3 
 OBITUARIES
 ELIOT ASINOF, 88
 His first novel, ''Man on Spikes,'' was published in 1955, and was a prescient condemnation of baseball's feudal control over the players, which would be undone in the free-agent era. But it was ''Eight Men Out,'' a journalistic recreation of the 1919 Black Sox Scandal, that he was most known for, and it became a classic of both baseball literature and narrative nonfiction. PAGE C17
 SPORTS
 WALKING AWAY
 While He Still Can
 When Michael Strahan, the New York Giants' gregarious, gap-toothed defensive end, called it a career on Monday, he did so while he could still walk, and not limp, away from the football field. ''Usually in sports, they tell you to leave,'' Mr. Strahan said. ''They're not telling me to leave the building.'' George Vecsey, Sports of The Times. PAGE A27 
 NOT EVEN CLOSE!
 As soon as Ken Griffey Jr. blasted his 600th career home run, the fight to claim ownership of the ball began. A Miami man named Justin Kimball claimed that he rightly snagged it. The police decided to go to the videotape. ''The claim of Mr. Kimball is in direct conflict with the video replays and observations of officers on the scene,'' the police said. Mr. Kimball is unlikely to face any charges for impersonating a souvenir owner. PAGE A24 
 EDITORIAL
 FAILURE ON CLIMATE CHANGE
 The country needs a president who not only understands and cares deeply about climate change -- which both Senators Barack Obama and John McCain say they do, and which President Bush clearly does not -- but who is willing to invest the time and the capital to push good legislation through Congress. PAGE A28
 DYING IN DETENTION
 The government has a duty to provide decent, effective, timely medical care to people in its custody. That should be beyond debate, but not when the government in question is the Bush administration and the people in custody are illegal immigrants. PAGE A28
 CHINA'S LIST OF OLYMPIC DON'TS
 Sports fans attending the 2008 Olympics in Beijing will have a long list of rules to carry in their pockets, courtesy of China's authoritarian government. PAGE A28
 OP-ED
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 It has been unusually revealing to be in Egypt as Barack Hussein Obama became the Democrats' presumptive nominee for president of the United States. While Obama, who was raised a Christian, is constantly assuring Americans that he is not a Muslim, Egyptians are amazed, excited and agog that America might elect a black man whose father's family was of Muslim heritage. PAGE A29
 MAUREEN DOWD
 She couldn't be prouder and Republicans couldn't be happier: for better or worse, Michelle Obama is the new woman of the moment. PAGE A29 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (66%); LIBERALISM (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%); MANMOHAN SINGH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (70%) INDIA (93%); EGYPT (93%); SOMALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



270 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: With One Eye on Gasoline and the Economy, Congress Keeps the Other on November

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Congress is shifting quickly to a general election footing, with lawmakers of both parties intensifying efforts to exploit public alarm about gasoline prices and the economy as a way of making the political case for themselves and their respective White House contenders.
 With the presidential field settled, Congressional Democrats put on a show of unity Tuesday while trying to put Republicans on the defensive over soaring energy costs. In the Senate, the majority forced votes on extending tax incentives for alternative power sources and on new taxes on oil companies to pay for energy research. 
 After Republicans blocked debate on both measures by denying Democrats the 60 votes needed to move forward, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, did not try to disguise what was shaping the oil and economic fights on Capitol Hill. 
 ''This is framed,'' Mr. Reid said on the floor, ''with the picture of a presidential campaign going on.''
 Later this week, House Democrats intend to push legislation opposed by many Republicans that would grant additional unemployment benefits to those whose aid is running out, an effort to present Republicans with a choice between helping jobless workers and supporting a potential White House veto.
 The legislative maneuvering, conducted as operatives for the two presidential candidates confer daily with their allies on Capitol Hill, is a response to what lawmakers describe as widespread public outrage over the price of gasoline and general anxiety about the economy.
 ''You know, you cannot walk around America right now without being assaulted by people,'' said Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri. ''As I went to the grocery store this weekend, as I went to the mall with my daughter, people that had no idea for sure who I was but thought I might be somebody because they maybe recognized me confronted me with incredible passion and frustration.''
 Republicans are pushing back. Deeming the legislation they blocked Tuesday as insufficient and shortsighted, they say that Democrats are proposing nothing that would lower the cost of gasoline in the short term and that by refusing to open more of the American coastline and a strip of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil production, the majority is thwarting any increase in domestic supplies.
 ''Let the states have the option of exploring off the coasts,'' said Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the No. 2 Senate Republican. ''Let's look at ANWR, which is a grassy plain, 2,000 acres in the middle of an area the size of the state of South Carolina, if that will make us more energy independent. Let's set a goal for America: energy independence in 10 years.''
 Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said, ''We have a winning argument as long as we keep making it.''
 In the House, Republicans have undertaken a coordinated effort to remind the public that it is Democrats who have run Congress during the last 17 months as gasoline costs have jumped. Democrats respond that the cost of gasoline has risen to over $4 a gallon from $1.46 at the start of the Bush administration.
 At the same time, Republicans have some internal conflicts. Senator John McCain of Arizona, the party's presidential choice, has opposed opening the Arctic refuge to drilling in the past, splitting with many of his colleagues who see production there as the holy grail of new domestic sources of oil. In addition, Mr. McCain indicated on Tuesday that he would favor an extension in unemployment benefits. 
 And another Republican, Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, was critical of the decision Tuesday to block the extension of tax credits for alternative energy.
 ''This issue whether to extend critical tax incentives right now should be, frankly, a straightforward decision,'' Ms. Snowe said. ''This country is in an energy crisis, but by the way Congress acts, you wouldn't know.''
 As the Senate fought over oil, top Democrats gathered down the street at national party headquarters to show that they were rallying together now that Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York had dropped her presidential bid, leaving Senator Barack Obama of Illinois as the party's presidential contender.
 The Democratic leaders of both the House and the Senate joined with the party chairman, Howard Dean, and Gov. Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, chairman of the Democratic Governors Association, to make clear that they would be working in concert with Mr. Obama to ensure his election.
 Because of the extended primary fight, Congressional Democrats are only now putting together a framework for coordinating their efforts with Mr. Obama, but they intend to be as cooperative as possible. 
 Mr. Obama has close Illinois colleagues in top slots both in the Senate, where Senator Richard J. Durbin is the No. 2 Democrat, and in the House, where Representative Rahm Emanuel heads the Democratic caucus. Party aides said they would move beginning this week to focus the party's regular strategy conference calls on how better to mesh the messages of the Congressional majority with those of the presidential campaign.
 Republicans have been engaged in their own such effort for weeks, with a regular daily conference call involving Republican communications aides, party officials and the McCain campaign, as well as a weekly opportunity for senators to hear from senior party strategists. 
 With time running out in the Congressional schedule, both sides expect the fight over gasoline prices and the economy to continue, with the bills blocked Tuesday making a reappearance.
 ''We are going to bring them back,'' said Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who heads the Senate Finance Committee. ''We are going to bring them back because it is the right thing to do.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); VETO (79%); TAX LAW (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); ENERGY RESEARCH (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); WILDLIFE (60%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (60%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (74%); JOHN CORNYN (59%); JON KYL (59%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



271 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Back Bush On Iran Nuclear Curbs

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and NAZILA FATHI; Steven Lee Myers reported from Kranj, and Nazila Fathi from Tehran. Alan Cowell contributed reporting from Paris, and Graham Bowley from New York.

DATELINE: KRANJ, Slovenia 

 BODY:
Opening a farewell tour of Europe, President Bush won European support on Tuesday to consider additional punitive sanctions against Iran, including restrictions on its banks, if Iran rejects a package of incentives to suspend its uranium enrichment program.
 Iran has begun transferring billions of dollars from European banks to Iranian and Asian banks, and buying gold and equities, according to reports in the Iranian news media, apparently to protect its windfall oil revenue from any new sanctions. 
 Mr. Bush arrived in Slovenia at the start of a European tour that will take him to Berlin, Rome, Paris, London and Belfast, Northern Ireland. A summit meeting with European Union leaders here was part of an effort to persuade them to adopt a stronger line toward Iran. 
 Iran's leaders, Mr. Bush said, ''can either face isolation, or they can have better relations with all of us if they verifiably suspend their enrichment program.''
 At a news conference after the summit meeting, Mr. Bush warned what would happen if Iran acquired a nuclear weapon. He said: ''The free world is going to say, 'Why didn't we do something about it at the time, before they developed it?' And so now is the time for there to be strong diplomacy.'' 
 A joint statement issued after the meeting urged Iran to ''comply with its international obligations concerning its nuclear activities'' and reaffirmed Western commitments to a ''dual-track strategy,'' employing the threat of punitive sanctions along with incentives to Iran. The European Union's foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, is to travel to Tehran to present the new package of incentives this weekend. 
 The communique coincided with heightened tensions over Iran's nuclear program. The International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna registered ''serious concern'' last month about Iran's suspected research into the development of nuclear weapons. 
 The issue became even more pressing after Israel's transportation minister, Shaul Mofaz, warned last week that an Israeli attack on Iranian nuclear sites would be ''unavoidable'' if weapons programs proceeded. 
 Some analysts said the language of the joint communique on Tuesday appeared to try to ease that threat. 
 ''I think this was a European attempt to show the Bush administration that Europe takes the threat seriously and to try to continue to prevent a situation where Israel or the United States might turn to the military instrument,'' said Julianne Smith of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. 
 Mr. Bush expressed sympathy for Israeli concerns about Iran's intentions, telling a questioner at the news conference, ''If you were living in Israel, you'd be a little nervous, too, if a leader in your neighborhood announced that they -- he'd like to destroy you.''
 But Mr. Bush also appeared to play down interest in a military option, saying he was leaving behind ''a multilateral framework'' to address Iran. And the joint statement pointed to the possibility of new measures to ''ensure Iranian banks cannot abuse the international banking system to support proliferation and terrorism,'' though it gave no specifics. 
 En route to Berlin, the next stop on Mr. Bush's trip, his national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, also stressed that the focus was on the carrot of incentives and the stick of more sanctions. ''I think everybody is on the same page, really,'' he said. ''We're going to make this offer, and if the Iranian regime denies the Iranian people the benefit of the offer, then we're going to have to turn up the pressure.''
 Britain, France and Germany are at the forefront of European diplomacy on Iran, and Mr. Bush is seeking their endorsement of stronger United Nations sanctions.
 The shift of assets out of European banks was ordered by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Iranian newspapers reported Tuesday. The deputy foreign minister for economic affairs, Mohsen Talaie, was quoted as confirming the shift, saying, ''We decided to exchange our foreign assets to increase our security.''
 Some Iranians publicly expressed worries that shifting the assets had been unwise. The daily newspaper Etemad Melli quoted Ibrahim Razaghi, an economist, as warning that Asian banks could not be reliable because of their dependence on Europe's economy. 
 Saeed Leylaz, an economist, warned in the daily newspaper Kargozaran that pressure on Iran would continue as long as authorities pursued aggressive policies that pushed the country further into isolation at a time when the economy was highly dependent on imports. 
 ''We say nuclear energy is our right,'' he wrote in a front-page column, referring to the country's nuclear program. ''The problem is rooted in the contradiction between our diplomacy and economic policies.'' 
 Slovenia, the host of the summit meeting on Tuesday, considers itself the most stable and prosperous of Balkan nations and holds the rotating presidency of the 27-nation European Union until July.
 Mr. Bush saluted the country and its prime minister, Janez Jansa, saying the first stop on his first visit to Europe as president was Slovenia, and now ''my last visit as U.S. president to Europe includes a first stop in Slovenia. It's a fitting circle.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JAVIER SOLANA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (72%) EUROPE (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SLOVENIA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



272 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Concerns On Economy Are Shifting To Inflation

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Keith Bradsher reported from Hong Kong and Matthew Saltmarsh from Paris. Michael M. Grynbaum contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
In the past 48 hours, Wall Street has issued a sobering message: The days of easy money from the Federal Reserve are nearly over.
 There is a growing sense among investors that the Fed has shifted its focus to the fight against inflation, leaving behind -- for now -- concerns about the outlook for economic growth.
 The implication is that the Fed's nine-month campaign of reducing rates, the most aggressive in history, is at or near its end. Investors now expect interest rates to stay steady, or start to rise, in the months ahead. 
 This week, striking moves across the bond and currency markets spotlighted that belief. 
 The beaten-down dollar, a scourge of the economy, rallied to its biggest two-day gain against the euro since late 2005. The yield on the two-year Treasury bond finished on Tuesday up more than half a percentage point from where it started the week, the sharpest two-day spike in more than two decades. Both moves suggest that investors are bracing for higher rates.
 The price of crude oil, which rose nearly $11 in a single day last week, tumbled again on Tuesday by $3.04 to $131.31 a barrel. Crude oil, which is traded in dollars, has given up $7 a barrel in two days, another sign that investors expect the value of the dollar to strengthen.
 ''Up until now, the Fed had been concerned about the economic consequences of a credit crisis,'' said Marc Chandler, who oversees currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. ''The market now is convinced that the Fed has shifted its focus away from the downside risks to the economy and is on a heightened alert against inflation.''
 That shift was solidified by remarks from Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Fed, who said on Monday night that the central bank would ''strongly resist an erosion of longer-term inflation expectations,'' implying a pause in its rate-cutting campaign and, perhaps, eventual rate increases.
 ''It had become clear that the Fed was more focused on inflation,'' Mr. Chandler said. ''Those messages were driven home by Bernanke, who basically said that the fear of a significant downturn in the economy had left him.''
 But a stronger dollar does not necessarily mean a better economic outlook for Americans. The Fed's signals were attached to a growing fear that inflation would accelerate, driven up by the large increase in global commodity prices. In other words, even if rates were to move higher, Americans would remain at risk of dealing with higher prices.
 ''If the Fed intends on hiking rates, it broadcasts the message that the risk of future stability that is coming from higher inflation is greater than the risk that stems from slower economic growth,'' said David Kovacs, who leads quantitative strategies at Turner Investment Partners in Berwyn, Pa.
 Tuesday's developments led investors away from fixed-income markets and into stocks. The Dow industrials posted their second gain in a row, rising more than 9 points to 12,289.76. 
 But it was what did not happen in the stock markets that reflected the relative strength of equities. After an overnight sell-off in the Chinese markets, American indexes opened lower but ended mixed, with the Dow having a modest gain. 
 Adding to the anxiety was a report that expensive oil pushed American imports to a record in April. Americans bought more fuel, and at a more expensive rate, than ever before, the Commerce Department said, widening the trade deficit. 
 The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell slightly, by about a quarter of a percentage point, as shares of energy and oil companies dropped on the retreat in oil prices. Technology stocks fell as well, dragging down the Nasdaq composite index, which lost 0.4 percent.
 The euro dropped 2 cents to $1.5463, as the British pound and yen fell slightly against the dollar. 
 The two-year Treasury yield, which moves opposite its price, gained 0.214 percentage point, to 2.925 percent. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 28/32, to 98 4/32. Its yield rose to 4.1 percent, from 4 percent.
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction for four-week bills and five-day cash management bills:

GRAPHIC: CHART Chart details line graph for 2-year treasury yield. (Source: Bloomberg)
The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg)Chart details line graph for daily activity. (pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); EURO (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); STOCK INDEXES (70%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



273 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Paulson's Path to China: Progress, but Miles to Go

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Two years ago, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. left Goldman Sachs and joined the Bush administration, hoping to use his expertise and contacts to ease economic tensions with China. His other goal was to stop Congress from passing legislation that might make tensions worse.
 Today the administration has won only limited concessions from China. But it is also breathing a bit easier about possible retaliation by Congress.
 Legislation aimed at punishing China over its currency practices, which have kept the price of Chinese exports artificially low, seemed to have momentum earlier this year. But in the waning weeks of Congress, lawmakers and their aides say its prospects are doubtful.
 Mr. Paulson, meanwhile, will be leading a delegation of cabinet members to meet with their Chinese counterparts in Annapolis, Md., next week at what will be the fourth semiannual round of high-level economic talks under the ''strategic economic dialogue'' started in 2006. 
 Administration officials say that while several specific trade issues have been resolved in the last two years, they are increasingly concerned that China is backtracking by using regulations, standards and other means to favor Chinese industry and shut out foreign competition.
 The Chinese have their own list of complaints, producing a discordant atmosphere for the talks. In a scathing critique of American policies, for example, the Chinese envoy to the World Trade Organization charged in Geneva on Monday that the United States had let the dollar depreciate against other currencies, choking the global economy with high oil and food prices. 
 The dollar's decline, said Sun Zhenyu, the Chinese envoy, had also shrunk the value of reserves held by China and other countries. He charged that the Bush administration had engaged in continuous abuse of the world trading system by having imposed duties on Chinese goods, maintained high tariffs and subsidies on many American products and restricted the export of high technology to China.
 Mr. Paulson said Tuesday that in Annapolis he would press for a more open Chinese economy and convey ''the concerns of American companies that China's investment regulations are opaque and seem in many ways to be designed to favor China's 'national champions.' ''
 Over all, Mr. Paulson insisted, speaking at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, the United States-China relationship is ''growing in a positive direction.''
 Lawmakers in Congress may not share that view, but several factors appear to have taken the steam out of their willingness to act.
 First, the devastating Chinese earthquake and the global efforts to help its victims make this an inappropriate time in the eyes of some to be punishing China over its trade practices. 
 Second, although Congressional ire remains focused on China's intervention in the currency markets, the yuan has appreciated nearly 20 percent since mid-2005. 
 As a result, the growth of exports to China is now outstripping the growth of imports from China, and the China-United States trade deficit is heading slightly downward from its record level of $256 billion last year.
 There is also a stubborn dispute in Congress between the approaches of two competing bills, one passed by the Senate Finance Committee and the other by the Senate Banking Committee, to punish China if it does not do more to let its currency rise in value.
 Attempts are being made to resolve the differences, but the prospects are doubtful because Congress is caught up in a heavy load of other business and election concerns.
 During the height of the Democratic presidential primaries, the candidates expressed much skepticism toward free trade in general. But now business leaders opposing trade sanctions say they are pleasantly surprised that an anti-China measure may not materialize.
 ''We're seeing a greater appreciation that exchange rates are complicated things,'' the president of the U.S.-China Business Council, John Frisbie, said. ''There's also a growing recognition that China is now our third-largest export market and that punitive measures to get China to move probably aren't going to get you to whatever the goal is.''
 Mr. Frisbie said that the business community would support a continuation of the dialogue set up by Mr. Paulson in a new administration next year.
 Mr. Paulson and other administration officials say that the purpose of the ''strategic economic dialogue'' is not to solve nettlesome trade issues but to engage in broad dialogue about big topics. Next week, the topic is energy and the environment.
 China and the United States are the two largest importers of oil and largest purchasers of cars. China is also the world's biggest consumer and producer of coal, and pollution from its coal-fired industries is believed to be a major factor in global warming.
 But American officials say they do not expect breakthroughs beyond pledges of greater cooperation. And even in the environment and energy arena, trade disputes are aggravating tensions.
 The United States complains that China imposes steep tariffs on American technology that could be used to clean its air and water and improve its energy efficiency. Mr. Paulson said Tuesday that many American businesses will not sell sophisticated products to China, fearing that the Chinese will steal their technologies and copy them.
 The sore points run the spectrum. Wall Street complains that China is not letting American banks, insurance companies and other institutions offer financial services, including credit cards. Barriers to direct investment in China remain formidable, American businesses say.
 The new buzzword used by critics of China is ''industrial policy.'' Even the World Trade Organization, a neutral body, used the term in a report last month to describe China's use of government regulations and standards to foster domestic industries. 
 Commenting on the organization's report last month, Peter F. Allgeier, the American envoy to the W.T.O., said China's determination to be self-sufficient in critical areas was at ''the root of many of the problems'' between the Chinese leadership and its trading partners.
 The actions have included the imposition of tariffs on steel, paper and other goods by the Commerce Department, and complaints filed at the W.T.O. The Chinese also complained about bills under consideration in Congress.
 Many experts say that China is unlikely to make any major concessions on trade in the remaining months of the Bush administration, and that its leadership may prefer to try to improve the atmosphere for a new incoming president, whether Democratic or Republican. 
 In addition, some say the United States has lost a bit of leverage in its continual preaching to the Chinese about the benefits of liberalizing its economy, in light of the credit and housing crises that administration and Federal Reserve officials concede resulted from an overly lax regulatory environment at home.
 ''We're certainly getting scrutinized by the Chinese over the way we've handled our markets,'' said Myron Brilliant, vice president for East Asia at the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''The Chinese are saying, 'Why should we completely open our economy and subject ourselves to these challenges?' It's made our case more difficult.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has stressed dialogue with China.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Henry Paulson said he would convey concerns that that ''China's investment regulations are opaque'' and favor national industry.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS BRACK/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US DOLLAR (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); EXPORT CONTROLS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); FOOD PRICES (70%); NATURAL DISASTERS (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



274 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: 2 New-Style Candidates Hit Old Notes on the Economy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
For all the efforts of Senators John McCain and Barack Obama to portray themselves as willing to break with party orthodoxy to get things done, the economic debate that opened their general election campaign this week previews a classic clash. It is a battle between Republican supply-side economics and a Democratic tradition that uses government levers to try to reduce inequality and spur the economy.
 Mr. McCain, who once opposed the Bush tax cuts in part because they favored the wealthy, has now made extending those cuts a central plank in his economic plan, which is based largely on the Republican credo that tax reductions stimulate the economy. And he is pushing another strain of fiscal conservatism that has not been much in evidence of late: a call for smaller government and a vow to cut pork-barrel spending.
 He often adds a dash of populism, speaking against excessive corporate pay packages on Tuesday, and has pushed for a gasoline-tax reprieve. And while Mr. McCain has portrayed his tax cuts as benefiting the middle class, most of the benefits would go to the wealthy and to corporations, including his calls for the elimination of the alternative minimum tax. 
 Mr. Obama often speaks of the traditional liberal goal of trying to redistribute the tax burden to reduce economic inequality, and at least in his public pronouncements has not emphasized the market-friendly, deficit-reduction aspects of the economic approach credited to former President Bill Clinton and former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin in the 1990s. Mr. Obama's plan would raise taxes on those making more than $250,000 by allowing Mr. Bush's tax cuts on top earners to expire, and he has signaled that he would consider increasing the current cap on income subject to the Social Security payroll tax.
 He has also proposed, for instance, more spending on providing access to health care, which critics say would widen the deficit when coupled with tax cuts. While Mr. McCain asserted in a speech in Washington on Tuesday that under Mr. Obama's tax plan Americans of every background would see their taxes rise, Mr. Obama's plan calls for cutting taxes on people earning less than $75,000 a year and for eliminating federal income taxes on elderly citizens who make less than $50,000 a year. 
 Over all, the two candidates' approaches -- which come from one candidate who has been described as a maverick, and another who is often called ''post-partisan'' -- each hew pretty closely to his party's traditional economic playbook. And that is increasingly forming the basis of their attacks on one another as each links his opponent to unpopular presidencies.
 For instance, Mr. Obama and the Democrats have been accusing Mr. McCain of running for Mr. Bush's third term by giving costly tax breaks to the wealthy. Mr. McCain shot back on Monday, in an interview on NBC News, that Mr. Obama seemed to be running for ''Jimmy Carter's second'' term by relying on tax-and-spend policies.
 But the debates have been colored by an unpredictable dynamic as the economy has worsened, forcing the two candidates to reconsider or recalibrate some of their positions. As the home mortgage crisis deepened this spring, Mr. McCain decided that more federal intervention was needed to help homeowners keep their homes than he had previously indicated, and on Tuesday, breaking with the Bush administration, he said he would support extending unemployment benefits.
 And the faltering economy led Mr. Obama to say in an interview on CNBC this week that he might ''possibly defer'' some of his tax increases on the wealthy if economic conditions warranted a delay. That prompted Tucker Bounds, a spokesman for the McCain campaign, to say in a statement on Tuesday that ''Barack Obama's admission that his tax increases could harm the economy begs the question as to why he supports them.''
 One of the big questions about Mr. Obama is the degree to which he is going to wed the more traditional liberal Democratic approach to the economy to the Clinton administration's more centrist approach, which was sometimes called ''Rubinomics,'' after Mr. Rubin. That approach placed a premium on deficit reduction and free trade, which Mr. Obama often spoke of coolly during the primary campaign as he courted working-class voters, but which he called ''a cause I believe in'' in his speech on Monday.
 Paul Weinstein Jr., the chief operating officer of the Progressive Policy Institute who was an economic adviser to Mr. Clinton, said that so far, compared with Mr. Clinton's policies, Mr. Obama's policies have ''a little more focus on fairness and growth than Clinton -- Clinton was more pure growth.''
 Experts say that both the McCain plan and the Obama plan would increase the deficit, and that neither man has adequately explained how his proposals would be paid for. But several analysts have said they believe that Mr. McCain's plan would increase the deficit more, because of the size of the tax cuts he is seeking.
 The economy has emerged as the top concern of voters in the presidential race, supplanting terrorism and the Iraq war as gasoline prices and unemployment have gone up and housing values and stock prices have gone down. 
 Their differences on the economy are every bit as stark as the difference on the Iraq war, where Mr. Obama favors beginning to withdraw United States troops while Mr. McCain wants to keep them there until they achieve ''victory.''
 Mr. McCain wants to extend the Bush tax cuts on the wealthy, cut corporate taxes and keep capital-gains taxes low. The tax cuts he promotes as benefiting the middle class include doubling the size of the exemption people can claim for each child. And his call for repealing the alternative minimum tax, while it would still help some middle-class taxpayers, would still largely benefit the wealthy: some 80 percent of the benefit would go to the top 10 percent of earners, according to the Tax Policy Center, a nonpartisan research group in Washington.
 Mr. Obama wants to let the Bush tax cuts on the wealthy lapse, and he wants to raise the tax on capital gains and dividends and to tax the windfall profits of oil companies. He also wants to keep the estate tax, which many Republicans deride as the ''death tax,'' on people with estates valued at more than $3.5 million; Mr. McCain would exempt people with estates valued at up to $10 million and would impose a much lower tax rate. Mr. Obama wants to use some of that money to pay for his middle-class tax cut and for the elimination of income taxes on retirees.
 Alan Viard, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute and a former economist for the Federal Reserve Bank who worked in the Council of Economic Advisers during President Bush's first term, said, ''If you compare McCain and Obama's proposals, one interesting point that people often don't realize is that both have pretty substantial tax cuts.'' 
 ''We know that McCain wants to make all of them permanent,'' Mr. Viard said of the Bush tax cuts, ''but Senator Obama wants to make a pretty good chunk of them permanent as well.'' 
 As the economy became the first debate of the general election, the only thing the two sides seemed to agree on was that they disagreed. Mr. McCain said Tuesday that ''we offer very different choices to the American people'' while Mr. Obama said Monday that they had ''a fundamentally different vision of where to take the country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain, on Tuesday greeting audience members after addressing the National Small Business Summit in Washington, has campaigned as a traditional fiscal conservative. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Senator Barack Obama has spoken of redistributing the tax burden. On Tuesday, he visited with Kate Marzluf, a registered nurse at the Barnes-Jewish Hospital in St. Louis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A20) CHART: CANDIDATES ON THE ECONOMY (pg.A20) Basic breakdown of John McCain and Barack Obama's views on the economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); INCOME TAX (71%); FUEL TAX (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); CORPORATE TAX (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



275 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Vetting a Vetter: Obama's Pick Fuels G.O.P. Criticism

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE; John M. Broder contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In choosing James A. Johnson for his vice-presidential selection committee, Senator Barack Obama tapped the ultimate Washington insider: a nationally recognized business executive who also helped Walter F. Mondale and John Kerry pick their Democratic running mates. 
 But now some of the business ties that made Mr. Johnson so attractive to Mr. Obama are being used against him. 
 Republicans and their presumed presidential nominee, Senator John McCain, have criticized Mr. Johnson, the former chairman of Fannie Mae, accusing him of getting favorable rates on three home mortgages totaling $1.7 million as a friend of the chief executive of the Countrywide Financial Corporation, the troubled mortgage lender that has became a symbol of the excesses that led to the crisis in subprime mortgage. 
 Mr. Johnson was also involved in some of the more controversial executive compensation decisions in recent years, serving on the board of five companies that granted lavish pay packages to their executives -- and often playing a key role in approving them.
 One of the more well-known cases involves UnitedHealth Group, a Minnesota company, where Mr. Johnson was a board member and later head of the compensation committee. 
 The company came under fire after the chief executive was granted more than $1.4 billion in stock options -- some $618 million of which was returned as a result of settlements with federal regulators and shareholders. 
 The executive, William McGuire, resigned, but he kept $800 million from the package. 
 Because of cases like UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Obama, Democrat of Illinois, introduced legislation in the Senate last year to restrict runaway compensation. 
 The measure, informally called ''Say on Pay,'' would give shareholders an advisory role in setting executive pay packages. It passed the House and is pending in the Senate. 
 In introducing the measure, Mr. Obama said it was intended to ''force corporate boards to think twice before signing over millions of dollars to C.E.O.'s.'' 
 He added that ''the rate at which executive pay has grown, as compared to stagnating wages among American workers, is rightfully frustrating shareholders and employees alike, especially given the lackluster performance of many of the companies paying these high salaries.'' 
 Mr. Johnson is one of three people vetting possible running mates for Mr. Obama. His appointment has created a wave of negative publicity just as Mr. Obama has begun his general election campaign and is challenging Mr. McCain on economic issues.
 ''Jim Johnson is an unusual choice for Obama to have heading up his vice-presidential selection committee,'' said Charles M. Elson, head of the Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. 
 ''Johnson found himself in the middle of the controversy that spurred the introduction of the Say on Pay bill,'' Mr. Elson said. Given that Mr. Obama is leading the effort to rein in such excesses, ''that makes it more strange,'' he added.
 Say on Pay is directed at the kind of decisions that led to enormous compensation packages at UnitedHealth Care and at four other companies where Mr. Johnson headed the compensation committees. One of them was Goldman Sachs, where Mr. Johnson defended a pay package granted to Henry Paulson, now the treasury secretary, that allowed Mr. Paulson to keep an extra $26 million in stock options. 
 At some of the companies where Mr. Johnson sat on the board, controversy erupted after packages were approved that included the backdating of options -- or the practice of granting options to corporate executives on dates when the company's share price was low, to guarantee the maximum profit when the options were exercised. 
 UnitedHealth Care reached a settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission and shareholders over the issue in December.
 In return for his work on the UnitedHealth Care board, Mr. Johnson received more than 3.1 million stock options, with an underlying value of about $175 million. He also received a director's fee of $400,000 a year. 
 Oversight groups have also raised questions about the number of boards on which Mr. Johnson served while holding a full-time position at Fannie Mae. Besides UnitedHealth and Goldman Sachs, he served on the boards and compensation committees of KB Homes, the Gannett Corporation and Temple Inland. He was also a board member at Target. 
 ''He was on the boards of five companies at the time we had flagged him in our reports,'' said Paul Hodgson, senior research analyst at the Corporate Library, a company that analyzes corporate governance issues. ''Two of those were involved in the backdating of stock options, and the levels of executive compensation at four of them were considered excessive.'' 
 The Obama campaign did not directly respond to questions about Mr. Johnson, nor did it provide additional information about the terms of the mortgages that he received from Countrywide. 
 On Tuesday, Mr. Obama responded by saying, ''I am not vetting my V.P. search committee for their mortgages.'' 
 The senator said that Mr. Johnson had a ''very discrete task'' to gather information about potential vice-presidential candidates, that he was performing his job well and that he was not being paid for his work.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James A. Johnson, a former chairman of Fannie Mae, is on Senator Barack Obama's vice-presidential selection committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); CREDIT CRISIS (71%); STOCK OPTIONS (65%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (72%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); UNH (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (72%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (72%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (55%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008



276 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: Rebuilding New Orleans

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Helping the Katrina Homeless'' (editorial, June 9):
 About a year after Hurricane Katrina, I was in the Lower Ninth Ward in New Orleans observing students and others who were heroically volunteering for the nasty tasks that the government should have been paying people to do, like cleaning out flood-damaged, rat- and insect-infested homes. 
 Would not it finally make sense for government money to be available, not only to build the housing that's needed, but also to train local unemployed people in the building trades so they could be part of this effort? 
 This would create much needed healthy homes, as well as provide people with employable skills to improve their lives.
 Robert Goodman Northampton, Mass., June 10, 2008
 The writer is a professor of environmental design at Hampshire College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HURRICANES (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



277 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: As Revenue Falls, M.T.A. May Raise Fares Again in '09

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN and JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
A worsening financial picture could force the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to raise subway, bus and commuter rail fares again next year, the authority's executive director said on Wednesday. 
 That would make it only the second time in the authority's history that fares were raised in consecutive years. Fares and tolls for the authority's trains, buses, bridges and tunnels went up in March. 
 The authority's executive director, Elliot G. Sander, said that the transportation authority faced an operating deficit of as much as $500 million to $700 million next year and that it would ''have no option'' but to raise fares in 2009 if it did not receive considerable outside financial assistance.
 ''Our hope is for additional support from Albany and other partners,'' Mr. Sander said, speaking in Albany at a hearing of the State Assembly's Committee on Corporations, Authorities and Commissions. ''If we do not have funding from our outside partners, then the only recourse the M.T.A. has is to raise fares, engage in service cutbacks and cutting staff.''
 The authority previously proposed raising fares in 2010, as part of what it said would be a series of regular, moderate increases every two years. But an increase next year would disrupt that initiative before it even started. 
 The authority receives money from three main sources: direct subsidies from the state and local governments, including New York City; dedicated revenues from taxes, including real estate transactions; and fares and tolls paid by its customers. 
 In recent years, the authority has been flush with cash, running large surpluses due largely to taxes generated by the booming real estate market. But this year, as the overall economy soured and the real estate market slowed, those tax revenues have fallen at a greater rate than expected. Last month, the authority reported that its income from real estate tax so far this year was $81 million lower than it had projected. 
 That is a small percentage of the authority's annual operating budget of more than $9 billion, but if the tax revenues continue to come in significantly below expectations, it could erode what is left of surpluses from previous years. 
 Mr. Sander said the authority had also been hit by rising fuel costs. It previously reported that through April, it had spent $11 million more for diesel fuel than it had budgeted. That was 17 percent above budget.
 ''Our numbers have gone south in '08,'' Mr. Sander said. He later added, ''We're going over the cliff.'' 
 The authority has predicted that it will face ballooning deficits in coming years, caused largely by payments on its enormous debt. 
 Questioned by the committee chairman, Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat, Mr. Sander said he was not prepared to ask the Legislature for a specific amount of money.
 Gene Russianoff, the staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, a transit advocacy group, said that the only time subway fares had gone up two years in a row was in 1980 and 1981. A fare increase next year, he said, would be ''a slap in the face to the riding public.''
 The authority will make a preliminary budget proposal for 2009 next month, when a more detailed assessment of its finances should be produced. The authority's board approves a new budget each December. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TRAINS (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (68%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (64%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); DIESEL FUEL (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



278 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Carriers Reap Benefits of Oil Hedging

BYLINE: By CAROLINE BROTHERS

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
As United States airlines reel from soaring oil prices and a sinking domestic economy, most of their European rivals appear better placed to ride out the storm. 
 While no airline can avoid the oil price shock, analysts say, European operators are benefiting from the relatively strong euro, given that jet fuel is priced in dollars. European carriers also fly relatively newer models of Boeing and Airbus planes, which burn 30 percent less fuel than models from the 1970s and 1980s, many of which are still in use by United States airlines.
 ''Europeans have the benefit of fleets that are fuel-efficient,'' said Howard Wheeldon, a senior strategist at BGC Partners, a brokerage firm in London. ''Americans always wait till the last minute and come in to buy aircraft at the end of the cycle.'' 
 The European airlines are also reaping the benefits of consolidation, and some of them serve more lucrative long-distance routes than United States carriers.
 Every airline, of course, is suffering the consequences of oil prices that are above $130 a barrel. The airline industry's biggest lobbying group, the International Air Transport Association, has said that every dollar increase in the price of oil costs a cumulative $1.6 billion for airlines.
 The ability to lock into fixed fuel prices months ahead of time -- called hedging -- can help offset these rising prices. But with the exception of Southwest Airlines, most United States airlines are less hedged than European ones. 
 Air France-KLM has hedged 78 percent of its fuel consumption through March 2009, at $70 to $80 a barrel, Jean-Cyril Spinetta, the chairman and chief executive of the airline, said last month. Through a policy of hedging fuel four years in advance, the company saved about $35 a barrel when oil was at $120 a barrel.
 But that does not mean that Air France-KLM has not felt a pinch. Pierre-Henri Gourgeon, finance director of the company, said that it could not pass the full cost of fuel price increases to its customers. Instead, it is investing about $1 billion a year in new, more fuel-efficient aircraft, to which savings from fuel-price hedging contribute significantly. 
 Demand has slowed on its trans-Atlantic routes, Mr. Gourgeon said, though its European routes have not suffered. ''Rather than decrease capacity, we will adjust our growth plan slightly,'' he said.
 Other European airlines have also taken the hedging route. British Airways hedged 72 percent of its fuel needs for the first half of the financial year and 60 percent for the second half. Lufthansa has hedged 83 percent of its fuel requirements through the end of 2008 and said that it saved 109 million euros ($169 million), last year by doing so.
 Even low-cost carriers like Air Berlin, EasyJet and Ryanair are hedging, with Ryanair recently reversing a longstanding avowal never to do so.
 But some European airlines are less protected. According to the French bank BNP Paribas, the Spanish carrier Iberia has ensured 47 percent of its 2008 fuel requirements, while Aer Lingus of Ireland has hedged 36 percent. The troubled Austrian Airlines has hedged only 20 percent of its 2008 fuel needs and is reportedly under pressure to find a ''strategic alliance'' with a stronger carrier, most likely Lufthansa or Air France-KLM.
 European airlines are also taking advantage of a wave of consolidation that is only now reaching the United States.
 Air France acquired KLM, and Lufthansa purchased Swiss International Air Lines. The two acquiring airlines succeeded in increasing the number of passengers per plane -- the ''load factor'' -- on the airlines they absorbed.
 Significantly, analysts say, both of those transformative deals took place after the 2001 terror attacks in the United States and amid the ensuing global downturn in air travel, while many United States airlines were forced into bankruptcy protection.
 Most European carriers that were not part of the consolidation trend, like Alitalia Airlines, which is now surviving off Italian government support, are stuck in the same position as their American counterparts.
 European Union rules outlawing certain types of state aid, established in 1997, prompted struggling airlines to combine or go out of business, as was the case with Sabena of Belgium in 2001. Meanwhile, the use of Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the United States prevented airlines from merging. Consolidation, as seen with the proposed merger of Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines, is only now getting under way and may be short-lived.
 ''The Europeans took the restructuring pain earlier and more sharply than the Americans,'' said Lloyd Brown, an airline analyst at Ernst & Young in London. ''They had more foresight and less support, so they had to make hard decisions.''
 Finally, at least 50 percent of the business done by European airlines like Lufthansa and Air France-KLM consists of long-distance flights to regions like Africa and Asia, which are benefiting from a boom in commodities. Asian airlines are also doing better because demand is holding up in that region.
 United States airlines have proportionally less international traffic -- roughly 20 percent of their business -- to counteract the slowing demand on national routes. Furthermore, on those shorter flights, American airlines often lack the mix of business and economy classes that enables European carriers to maximize costs by charging more at the front of the plane, said Mr. Wheeldon of BGC Partners.
 Still, European airlines are striving to move quickly to limit their risks.
 ''We are looking at the cash contribution of every flight, on a flight-by-flight basis, not just routes,'' the British Airways chief executive, William M. Walsh, said. ''We are going to take flights out where it makes no sense, with oil at $130 a barrel, to continue them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lufthansa hedged 83 percent of its fuel requirements through the end of this year and said that it saved 109 million euros last year through the practice, common with European carriers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS BALIBOUSE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JET FUEL (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (68%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (90%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (58%); BOEING CO (58%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); AIR BERLIN PLC & CO LUFTVERKEHRS KG (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (54%); EASYJET PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (55%)

TICKER: RYAAY (NASDAQ) (58%); RYA (LSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); LHA (FRA) (58%); AB1 (FRA) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (57%); AF (PAR) (54%); AF (AMS) (54%); EZJ (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: JEAN-CYRIL SPINETTA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



279 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: In Close Vote, House Rejects Bill to Extend Aid to Jobless

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House on Wednesday narrowly defeated a plan to provide added unemployment aid for Americans whose benefits are running out after Republicans, bolstered by a White House veto threat, opposed the measure.
 As part of an escalating Congressional fight over economic issues, a Democratic plan to provide an additional 13 weeks of benefits to Americans out of jobs -- or another 26 weeks in states where unemployment exceeds 6 percent -- fell 3 votes short of approval in a 279-to-144 vote. A two-thirds majority was required under the rules Democrats used to rush the measure to the floor.
 ''This bill is not the answer,'' Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the minority leader, said in encouraging Republicans to oppose a plan that Democrats called crucial in light of increasing unemployment, reflected in a spike last month. 
 But 49 Republicans broke with the president and joined 230 Democrats in backing the bill. After the vote, Democratic leaders said they would bring the measure back for a second vote on Thursday under rules requiring a simple majority for approval, virtually guaranteeing that it would pass.
 ''This legislation is vital for workers and their families,'' said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader. ''It is not charity. It is our obligation and responsibility.''
 Democrats had hoped to secure a vetoproof majority for the measure, which faces an uncertain future in the Senate. But they believed the temporary setback on unemployment aid could hand them a potent political weapon because of anxiety about the economy and gas prices. 
 Democratic leaders compared the result to Republican resistance in the face of widespread support for increased stem cell research and expanding a children's health insurance program. The Republican opposition came even as Senator John McCain of Arizona, the party's presumptive presidential choice, indicated that he would support the added benefits.
 ''You can vote no if you want,'' Representative Jim McDermott, Democrat of Washington and an author of the measure, cautioned Republicans on the House floor. ''You will have to face your constituents in November.''
 The Bush administration and some Republicans argued that extending benefits, which would ultimately be provided to an estimated four million Americans, was premature, because past extensions were instituted in times of higher unemployment. They also said it would provide additional money even in states where unemployment was not a significant problem.
 ''With scarce federal dollars, it's not fiscally responsible to extend benefits in states with very low unemployment rates,'' said Tony Fratto, a White House spokesman.
 He and other Republicans also said the measure eliminated a longstanding requirement that people must have worked full time for at least 20 weeks to qualify for benefits, creating a situation where someone who had worked as briefly as two weeks could conceivably collect up to 52 weeks of unemployment. 
 Democrats dismissed that as an exaggeration, saying anyone with such a short work history would receive just minimal aid. They said the 20-week rule was eliminated because it tended to penalize part-time workers and women who might have taken maternity leave.
 Both the House and Senate had already approved added benefits in earlier votes on a broader war spending measure. But House leaders decided to try to force through a separate bill to keep the aid from being entangled in the fight over the war money and to emphasize their push for the benefits. The Senate appears inclined to keep the unemployment benefits included as part of the war spending legislation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VETO (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FAMILY (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: STENY HOYER (58%); JIM MCDERMOTT (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



280 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Second Thoughts on Pulling the Guard From the Border

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: NOGALES, Ariz. 

 BODY:
Swooping low over the Mexican border in her Blackhawk helicopter, Chief Warrant Officer Christina Engh-Schappert of the Virginia National Guard spots ... nothing. No sign of the migrants who would congregate in the washes for the mad dash to the United States. No clusters of people hiding in the bushes. Nobody in the throes of dehydration and heat exhaustion.
 ''At first we were constantly catching clients,'' Ms. Engh-Schappert said later, using the Border Patrol vernacular for illegal immigrants. ''It's gone from pretty busy to hardly anything in our sector.'' 
 Soon, she will be gone, too, along with 2,600 other members of the National Guard in Arizona, California, New Mexico and Texas where they are helping to secure the border with Mexico as part of a two-year mission called Operation Jump Start. 
 Phased down from a peak of more than 6,000 Guard members, the mission is scheduled to end July 15, although a smattering of Guard personnel are expected to remain or return as part of longstanding cooperation with the Border Patrol.
 Here, they have built or shored up roads to give federal agents speedier access to the hilly and rocky terrain. They have fixed trucks and monitored cameras and sensors and stood guard in the wilderness, facilitating thousands of arrests by directing agents to illegal border crossers.
 But just as Guard members pack up and bid farewell to the desert, an effort is intensifying to have them stay put. The Border Patrol has given the Guard credit for helping to deter and detect illegal crossings, so much so that the governors of the four border states and federal lawmakers now wonder aloud, Why stop now?
 ''This could be a new record for the federal government, actually abiding by a deadline,'' said Dennis Burke, the chief of staff for Gov. Janet Napolitano, Democrat of Arizona, who has twice written this year to Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland security, to plead for an extension of the mission. ''The two-year deadline was arbitrary.''
 Ms. Napolitano and the other governors say the Guard should stay while the Border Patrol continues a hiring frenzy toward meeting a goal of about 18,000 agents by the end of the year, double its size from 2001. It now stands at 16,471, about 5,000 more than two years ago, and the governors, as well as members of Congress, have expressed doubt that the agency will put enough agents in the field to meet its target.
 ''It is not as easy as running some ads and thinking you are going to have well-qualified people apply and come into the Border Patrol,'' said Representative Gabrielle Giffords, a Democrat whose southern Arizona district includes the border. ''The risk is high, conditions are not great, the pay is average compared to other law enforcement positions. Having the Guard there for a period of time longer until they can ramp up the Border Patrol is necessary for border improvement.''
 In addition, the officials point out, the much-anticipated virtual fence, a suite of cameras, radars and other technology intended to enhance around-the-clock surveillance of the border, has been plagued with delays and glitches, although domestic security officials say it is getting back on track.
 Representative Harry E. Mitchell, a Democrat from the Tucson area, on Tuesday pressed the case for keeping the Guard in place by raising concerns that rising drug violence in Mexican border towns could spill into the United States.
 The reaction from domestic security officials, however, has been thanks, but no thanks.
 Despite questions about the strains on the Guard and the military because of the Iraq war, President Bush, heeding the suggestion of lawmakers, sent 6,000 members of the Guard to the border, with the condition that the number would drop to 3,000 after one year and that assignments would end after two. 
 Domestic security and National Guard officials are not urging an extension, although they gush over the success of the Guard's deployment. 
 ''It was an interim bridge so we would be able to build up agents and technology, and that has been accomplished,'' David V. Aguilar, chief of the Border Patrol, said last week in a telephone interview from Washington. 
 But, Mr. Aguilar said, ''I would not be unhappy'' if the Guard stayed on in large numbers. 
 He ticked off a wealth of statistics attributed to having the Guard in play: 580 agents freed from non-law-enforcement tasks and returned to patrol, more than 1,000 smuggler vehicles seized, a 39 percent drop in arrests for illegal border crossings.
 But, Mr. Aguilar said, the impact of the Guard's leaving ''is going to be minimal,'' because the agency had long planned for the July 15 departure. Also, he said, the Guard, as it has done for years, will continue to perform limited missions and training at the border to help federal law enforcement.
 Border economists and sociologists say that the Guard's successes may be overemphasized, that the drop in arrests, for example, might also indicate fewer people were trying to enter the United States because of the souring American economy while those here no longer risk going back and forth across the border.
 The mission has not been trouble free. In the beginning, the Guard and Border Patrol bureaucracies did not mesh, some of those involved said, which led to confusion over orders and assignments, and which remains an occasional problem. 
 For the most part, however, the mission has been mutually beneficial, Border Patrol and Guard members say. 
 Recently, Capt. Tom Butler of the Ohio National Guard was helping to extend a graded, dirt road along the border fence here. Earlier, his team had helped to seal a tunnel that drug traffickers had burrowed under the fence. The projects have given him a sense of satisfaction.
 ''This will increase their response and make it safe,'' Captain Butler said of the projects. ''And that does feel good.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The National Guard has been improving lights, roads and other border infrastructure, like this fence near Nogales. Railroad rails have been installed as vehicle barriers just east of Nogales to block illegal border crossers from Mexico. Two members of the National Guard near landing mat fencing from World War II on a hillside near Nogales, Ariz. Ohio Air National Guard members working on road improvements along the Mexico border as part of Operation Jump Start. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES GREGG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (91%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WORLD WAR II (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); HEAT STRESS DISORDERS (71%)

PERSON: JANET NAPOLITANO (57%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NOGALES, AZ, USA (94%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



281 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: 6 Deaths in Brooklyn and Queens Are Attributed to Heat

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Six people in New York City died because of exposure to the heat on Tuesday, the medical examiner's office said on Wednesday.
 The office's spokeswoman, Ellen Borakove, said that the medical examiner had determined that the cause of death for those people, who ranged in age from 57 to 89 and lived in either Brooklyn or Queens, was heatstroke. But each one also had other health problems that were contributing factors, she said. 
 The medical examiner's office attributes death to heatstroke if the body temperature reaches at least 105 degrees. 
 Three of the victims were in Brooklyn: two men ages 57 and 84, and a 74-year-old woman. The others were in Queens: two women ages 70 and 84, and an 89-year-old man, she said. 
 There was no immediate information available about the living conditions of the six, or how much time they had spent inside or outside, when temperatures rose to the mid-90s on Monday and Tuesday. 
 Hundreds of Con Ed customers in parts of the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens were without power on Tuesday.
 According to the American Geriatrics Society, about 200 Americans, most of them 50 or older, die of health problems caused by high heat and humidity every year. 
 Heart disease, diabetes and other ailments common among older adults make it more likely that they will have problems with the heat, according to the organization.
 Dr. John B. Murphy, the society's president, said older people are more susceptible to heatstroke because the thirst sensation dulls with age, and the ability to perspire decreases. 
 Some medications commonly taken by older people also affect their ability to handle excess heat, he said. Social and economic factors, like isolation and low income, can also play a role. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HEAT STRESS DISORDERS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (88%); DEATHS (78%); GERIATRICS (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); MEN (76%); WOMEN (76%); HEART DISEASE (65%); DIABETES (65%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (55%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



282 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Until Sudden Death, An Immigrant Worker Toiled Six Days a Week

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The routine never changed. Six days a week, Lauro Ortega shuttled from pit to pit, taking another construction job. At the end of each week, he sent more than half of his weekly salary of about $700 to his wife and two children in Ecuador. On Sunday, he went to church and prayed.
 Mr. Ortega, who came to the United States four years ago as an illegal immigrant, was 30 when he was killed in March by rubble that fell from the wall of a house and partially buried him. On Wednesday, prosecutors charged the man who hired him with manslaughter. 
 Mr. Ortega's life showed the lengths to which some immigrants go to send a slice of prosperity to their families thousands of miles away. They sacrifice leisure for long work weeks, watch their children grow up in snapshots sent across seas, and take on risky jobs that pay relatively well -- and in cash. 
 Born in Cuenca, Ecuador, Mr. Ortega, who had three brothers and two sisters, was an unassuming, outgoing child, said one of his brothers, Leonardo Ortega, also a construction worker in New York. He was a year short of completing high school but always sought a life of comfort, his brother said.
 Mr. Ortega left his country four years ago to escape dreary economic conditions. The son of a farmer, Mr. Ortega quickly learned the importance of hard work as a formula for survival.
 As a child, he was forced to help his family recover from economic devastation after his father died, his brother said.
 Mr. Ortega wrestled with the decision to leave his family for the United States, accepting it only after he saw it as the only way to bring his family out of near-poverty, his brother said.
 When he joined two of his brothers in New York in 2004, Mr. Ortega began work as a day laborer, hopping between construction jobs. He quickly found himself engulfed in work from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
 ''He came to this country to work,'' his brother said, speaking in Spanish. ''He liked to do it. That was his love.''
 Mr. Ortega left few tracks, living alone in an apartment in Ridgewood across from a curbside mechanic.
 Several of his neighbors said on Wednesday that they were unaware that he had lived nearby, and the lawyer representing his family said he knew only basic details of Mr. Ortega's life.
 In between the demands of work, Mr. Ortega made time for daily calls to his wife, Blanca Guarango, and their 10-year-old daughter, Beatriz, and 8-year-old son, Roberto, Leonardo Ortega said. 
 ''He made money for the people he loved,'' the brother said. 
 Now, with no more weekly envelopes from New York, Mr. Ortega's family in Ecuador is struggling to live comfortably, his brother said.
 Mr. Ortega spent his free hours studying Bible verses and was particularly close to his brothers, Leonardo Ortega said.
 ''If one of us got sick, he was there to help out,'' Mr. Ortega said. ''We always kept in touch.''
 Mr. Ortega's brother said Wednesday that the family honored his life in March with services in both New York and Ecuador.
 He said news of the indictment was encouraging. ''I was happy to hear it,'' he said. ''I just want justice for my family.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); MANSLAUGHTER (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); LAWYERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) ECUADOR (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



283 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: When Conscience And Closet Collide

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
REVIEWING her wardrobe earlier this season, Elizabeth Marvin had a moment of reckoning. ''How did this closet become so massively overstuffed?'' she mused, disconcerted by the sight of so many Marni jackets, Chloe bags and Jimmy Choo shoes jostling for space on the racks. ''From my green perspective, part of me feels guilty about being such a major consumer.'' 
 But Ms. Marvin, the New York sales director for the National Audubon Society and a self-described ''major environmentalist,'' felt neither so guilty nor so strapped that she planned to stop shopping cold turkey. ''Instead of buying that Chloe jacket that I want right now,'' she said, ''I'm much happier purchasing something at a consignment store that is much less.''
 In recent months, high-end designer resale shops have been the beneficiaries of a subtle shift in consumer thinking, as fashion lovers, even those who can afford to splurge, reassess their priorities. Unsettled by continuing recession fears and the soaring prices of designer clothes, and assailed by queasy consciences as well, many find these shops a way to update their wardrobes without seriously denting their bank accounts -- or their sense of social propriety. 
 ''Everyone is feeling the pinch these days or knows people who are feeling the pinch,'' said Linda Kenney Baden, a prominent lawyer in New York. ''It's good to buy a used car again, and it's chic to buy used clothes.''
 Shoppers like Mrs. Baden, some with formidable retail habits, are turning to consignment stores to offload designer clothing and accessories and to accumulate spare cash, as often as not plowing the profits back into the very same store. Cash-strapped bargain seekers and affluent trophy hunters alike are paring their closets, earning 40 to 50 percent of the resale shop's asking price. Resale shoppers pay roughly a quarter to a third of the original market value of still-coveted Saint Laurent Muse bags, Stella McCartney jumpsuits and Louboutin pumps.
 Merchants report that the number of shoppers and consignors is climbing and that business has rarely been so robust. ''The rise of the euro, sky-high retail prices and the idea of recycling -- those are some of the things that drive customers right to our door,'' said Laura Fluhr, an owner of Michael's, the 54-year-old grande dame of fancy resale stores on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
 ''In an otherwise bleak retail scene, consignment is a thriving area,'' Ms. Fluhr said, noting that her business is 30 percent ahead for the first four months of 2008. She added that the extravagant prices of new designer fashions and the influx of European visitors scouring New York for bargains have contributed to the growth. 
 ''People are really resenting designer prices at conventional stores,'' said Ina Bernstein, the owner of Ina, the designer resale chain in Manhattan. ''In a way, that's why our business is up.'' She said that sales are ahead by 15 percent from January through April at each of her five boutiques. 
 Vicki Haberman, who sells privately and through vintagecollectionsnyc.com, ascribes a heightened interest in consignment shopping partly to consumers' apparently unquenchable appetite for luxury labels, even those that are gently worn. ''Every time you open a magazine, you see somebody wearing a quote-unquote vintage designer gown,'' she said. ''Shopping vintage and consignment has lost much of its stigma and become mainstream.'' 
 April was a record month for Ricky's Exceptional Treasures, a luxury resale store on eBay. Ricky Serbin, the owner, reported that his site had about 150,000 hits and some 4,000 visits a day. ''These people do not need to be shopping on eBay,'' Mr. Serbin said of his well-heeled customers. ''They tell themselves, 'I'm getting a $13,000 gown for $2,000 or $3,000,' which is nothing to them.'' 
 If a customer parts with $1,000 for a jeweled Lanvin necklace at the site, it's a bargain compared with the original $8,000 tag. ''They may see that as a tightening of the belt,'' Mr. Serbin noted tartly. 
 Certainly the rewards of buying and selling through resale shops can be more emotional than practical. As Judy Yun, a customer and consignor at Ina, acknowledged, there are no savings in getting back $350 for a Balenciaga bag that cost $1,600, then spending the money on a $400 pair of Manolo Blahnik sandals. She buys and consigns nonetheless because, she said: ''I like seeing that little bit of extra cash. Actually, it's not so little when you're talking about a Balenciaga handbag.'' 
 Among the covetable pieces at Ina last week were a Prada pink mock-crocodile evening bag, which was selling for $825, compared with the original price of about $2,200; a D & G evening dress in bronze-colored lace for $475, $1,800 new; and a $325 pair of Louboutin pumps, originally $775. 
 At Act II, a designer resale store in Kansas City, Mo., pieces from St. John, Yves Saint Laurent, Prada and Dior are quick to vanish from the racks, said Gloria Everhart, the owner. Chanel boucle tweeds and Hermes handbags can fetch prices in the thousands wherever they turn up. 
 Other labels that once sizzled have lost their draw. ''Escada has gone cold, and so has Armani,'' said Barbara Nell, the owner of the Daisy Shop on Oak Street in Chicago. 
 But for the most part, clothes that have gathered dust in closets for months rarely molder on consignment racks. That is because high-end merchants turn their inventory frequently, buying pieces that are no more than a few seasons old and dropping prices every few weeks to ensure that the wares look fresh and will sell at a reasonable cost. 
 Both merchants and consumers say that purging the closet and buying castoffs can be cleansing for the soul. ''The whole idea of recycling and going green motivates some of our customers,'' said Ms. Fluhr of Michael's. ''People are aware that Jimmy Choos fill landfills, too.'' 
 Ms. Yun said she has grown increasingly sensitive to environmental issues. ''Selling to resale shops becomes a platform to recycle,'' she said. ''Besides, I tell myself, 'It's obscene to have so much.' '' 
 Five years ago, Mrs. Baden, the lawyer, rarely gave much thought to paying full retail for an evening dress she was unlikely to wear again. But in the weeks approaching a recent gala, she bought a Chanel gown at Ricky's on eBay for one third of its original $10,000 price. ''I was going to wear it to just one function,'' she recalled. ''To spend that kind of money -- I couldn't justify it.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THIS OLD THING: A consigned D & G corset dress awaits a new home at the Ina boutique at 15 Bleecker Street in New York.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FILIP KWIATKOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
SECONDHAND ROSES: Above, a dress at Michael's in New York. Above left, Barbara Nell adjusts a Chanel hat on a customer's head at the Daisy Shop in Chicago. Left: Ina Bernstein of Ina. ''People are really resenting designer prices,'' she says. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ABOVE AND BOTTOM PHOTOGRAPH BY FILIP KWIATKOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. G5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (89%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (89%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); PRICE INCREASES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



284 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Bounce Higher, Sending Markets Lower

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks tumbled Wednesday as oil prices rebounded, fanning concerns that inflation would further pinch consumers and lead central banks to raise interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 200 points to its lowest close since mid-March.
 Investors are uneasy about oil prices, which on Wednesday traded as high as $138.30 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Crude oil for July delivery settled at $136.38, up $5.07. 
 Energy Department data showed that gasoline supplies grew last week but that crude oil inventories fell more than analysts expected.
 The Federal Reserve's beige book, which provides readings on the economy by region, indicated that Americans were under a strain from rising energy and food costs. The Fed said the economy remained ''generally weak.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 205.99 points, or 1.68 percent, to 12,083.77. Wednesday's close was the lowest for the blue chips since March 17, when the Dow ended at 11,972.25.
 The biggest loser among the 30 Dow components was the aluminum producer Alcoa, which fell $3.40, or 8 percent, to $39.32, after it lowered its earning expectations because of a power curtailment in Western Australia and a JPMorgan analyst said it was not planning to sell itself or spin off part of its business.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 22.95 points, or 1.69 percent, to close at 1,335.49, and the Nasdaq composite index declined 54.93 points, or 2.24 percent, to 2,394.01.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 14.74 points, or 2.01 percent, to 717.88.
 ''There are not a lot of positive things you can point to right now,'' said Michael Binger, portfolio manager at Thrivent Investment Management in Minneapolis. ''We have commodity prices higher, inflation up, the prospect of the Fed raising interest rates instead of lowering, a worldwide slowdown and an economic slowdown in the U.S.''
 Mr. Binger said that one weak spot on Wall Street -- the financial sector -- was faced with a new worry of higher interest rates while still trying to navigate a tight credit market and fallout from bad bets on home loans.
 ''If the Fed starts to raise rates because of inflation, not because the economy is good, that is not a positive on the financial stocks,'' he said.
 Janna Sampson, director of portfolio management at OakBrook Investments, said that there probably would not be another reduction in interest rates, but that she did not see anything dire enough in the beige book to suggest that the Fed would raise rates at its meeting later this month. Rising prices appear to still be ''fairly well confined to commodities,'' she said.
 In corporate news, Corporate Express, the office supplies distributor based in the Netherlands, accepted a sweetened $2.6 billion buyout bid from the office supplies retailer Staples. Shares of Staples rose $1.23, or 5.3 percent, to $24.38.
 Lehman Brothers fell for the fourth consecutive session. The company reported this week that it lost more than $2.8 billion for the fiscal second quarter, which ended May 31, and announced plans to raise $6 billion in capital to help its balance sheet. The stock declined $3.75, or 13.6 percent, to $23.75.
 The price of the 10-year Treasury bond rose 8/32, to 98 12/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, fell to 4.07 percent, from 4.10 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg)Chart details daily market activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); GASOLINE (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); INVENTORIES (70%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (66%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (66%); STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES WHOLESALERS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); ALCOA INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); AAI (ASX) (55%); AA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



285 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: A Justice Orders a Pay Raise for New York's Judges

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

 BODY:
Weighing in on a longstanding tug of war between New York's jurists and lawmakers, a State Supreme Court justice ordered the Legislature on Wednesday to give the state's 1,250 judges their first pay raise in 10 years.
 The ruling, by Justice Edward H. Lehner, came in response to a lawsuit filed last September by Patricia M. Nunez of New York City Criminal Court, Michael L. Nenno of Cattaraugus County Family Court, Susan R. Larabee of New York City Family Court and Geoffrey D. Wright of New York City Civil Court. Justice Lehner gave the Legislature 90 days to increase the current salary of $136,700 for all New York State trial judges. 
 But the judges may have to wait much longer if the Legislature appeals the ruling.
 Gov. David A. Paterson's office released a statement saying that his administration was considering its options. ''While the governor has long supported salary increases for judges, today's opinion flies in the face of the State Constitution, which makes clear that only the Legislature has the power to set judicial salaries,'' the statement said. 
 Judges have argued that the Legislature has unconstitutionally linked the salaries of lawmakers and judges, stonewalling the judges from pay increases in line with inflation. Judges say that lawyers fresh out of law school working at New York City firms earn more than they do.
 In April, the state's chief judge, Judith S. Kaye, filed a suit on behalf of New York's judges charging that the political process has denied them their constitutional right to an ''adequate'' salary, because the State Legislature has refused to give them a raise for the last decade.
 A hearing is scheduled next month for Judge Kaye's lawsuit, which Justice Lehner will hear as well.
 In his 17-page decision, Justice Lehner, who himself would get a pay raise under the ruling, said he believed that legislators did unfairly link their desire for a pay raise with that of the judges.
 The government has used ''judicial pay as a pawn in dealing with the unresolved political issue of legislative compensation,'' he wrote. He said the link was ''an abuse of power by defendants and constitutes an unconstitutional interference upon the independence of the judiciary.''
 George Bundy Smith, a lawyer for the judges who filed the suit, praised the decision.
 ''It's certainly a giant step,'' said Mr. Smith, a former judge on the State Court of Appeals. ''If there is an appeal, we are prepared to argue that appeal and to go as far as necessary.''
 Mark Hansen, a spokesman for the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, declined to comment. But he noted that Mr. Bruno had voted twice last year for judicial pay raises. Both bills passed in the Senate but did not get through the Assembly.
 Dan Weiller, a spokesman for the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, said only that his office was still reviewing the decision.
 The lawsuit filed by the four judges did not request a specific salary, but did request an award of $600,000 for each judge, an amount that would account for cost of living increases since 2000.
 Justice Lehner did not specify a salary amount, but instructed the Legislature to proceed ''in good faith to adjust the compensation payable to members of the judiciary,'' and to consider compensating judges for salary shortfalls in previous years.
 Mr. Smith, the lawyer for the four judges, said he believed that state judges should earn a salary comparable to that of Federal District Court judges, who currently earn $169,300 annually.
 The lawsuit filed by Judge Kaye says that New York's judges have not received a raise since January 1999, a longer time than federal judges and state judges in all other states, and that the situation was hurting recruitment efforts and morale.
 While Justice Lehner's ruling is a positive step, a lawyer representing Judge Kaye said it was important to continue with that suit because it was filed on behalf of all the state's judges.
 The lawyer, Bernard W. Nussbaum, added that the lawsuit went beyond the issue of a link between the salaries of judges and legislators by arguing that the Legislature has discriminated against judges, pointing out that while virtually all of the state's 195,000 employees have received inflation raises, the judges' salaries have been frozen. It also argues that judges' salaries are unconstitutionally inadequate.
 Mr. Nussbaum said that Judge Kaye's lawsuit would proceed unless the governor and the Legislature agreed to judicial pay raises.
 ''If they do the right thing,'' Mr. Nussbaum said, ''we won't have to go forward.''
 But the legal terrain on this issue could get tricky.
 If the governor and the Legislature appeal Justice Lehner's ruling, the court could grant a stay on the decision, meaning no action would be taken on the salaries until the appeals process was completed. That process could take as long as a year, legal experts say.
 The issue of pay raises for judges has also raised an ethical question: Can judges rule fairly on a case that would affect them directly?
 Justice Lehner wrote in his decision that under the ''rule of necessity,'' only the New York State Supreme Court had the jurisdiction to rule on the issue of its judges' salaries. Therefore, he said, it was appropriate for him to hear the case.
 But James Sample, a lawyer with the Brennan Center at the New York University School of Law, said that although the state's judges deserved a raise, Justice Lehner's decision might not be so clear-cut.
 ''Given the serious conflict of interest of Justice Lehner's ruling, the decision likely sets a political marker more than a legal marker,'' Mr. Sample said.
 Carl W. Tobias, a law professor at Richmond University, said that Wednesday's decision, along with Judge Kaye's looming lawsuit, might force legislators to soften their stance.
 ''I think the defendants will need to take it seriously, perhaps even seriously consider settlement negotiations,'' Mr. Tobias said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); APPEALS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); FAMILY COURTS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (60%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



286 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: A 21st-Century Profile: Art for Art's Sake, and for the U.S. Economy, Too

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
If all the professional dancers in the United States stood shoulder to shoulder to form a single chorus line, it would stretch from 42nd Street for nearly the entire length of Manhattan. If every artist in America's work force banded together, their ranks would be double the size of the United States Army. More Americans identify their primary occupation as artist than as lawyer, doctor, police officer or farm worker. 
 ''It's easy to talk about artists in lofty and spiritual terms,'' said Dana Gioia, chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts. ''Without denying the higher purposes of the artistic vocation, it's also important to remember that artists play an important role in America's cultural vitality and economic prosperity. Artists have immense financial and social impact as well as cultural impact.'' 
 Drawing from the census, the endowment has compiled what it bills as the first nationwide profile of professional artists in the 21st century.
 In 2005 nearly two million Americans said their primary employment was in jobs that the census defines as artists' occupations -- including architects, interior designers and window dressers. Their combined income was about $70 billion, a median of $34,800 each. Another 300,000 said artist was their second job.
 The percentage of female, black, Hispanic and Asian artists is bigger among younger ones. Among artists under 35, writers are the only group in which 80 percent or more are non-Hispanic white. Overall, women outnumber men only among dancers, designers and writers. Similarly, while 60 percent of professional photographers are men, 60 percent under age 35 are women. 
 Like the population in general, the number of artists has grown fastest in the West and the South since 1990, but New York State, followed by California, Massachusetts, Vermont and Colorado, has the most artists per capita. 
 California claims the most actors per capita, Nevada the most dancers and entertainers, Vermont the most writers, Tennessee the most musicians, New Mexico the most fine artists, Massachusetts the most architects and designers (including, among others, commercial, fashion, floral, graphic, interior designers and window dressers), Hawaii the most photographers and North Dakota (where radio shows abound) the most announcers. By 2005 the proportion of non-Hispanic whites among artists had declined to 80 percent from 86 percent in 1990, but the proportion of blacks, 5 percent, remained the same. 
 San Francisco leads metropolitan areas in the proportion of artists in the work force, followed by Santa Fe (which ranks first in writers and fine artists), Los Angeles, New York and Stamford-Norwalk in suburban Connecticut. The Top 10 also include Boulder, Colo.; Danbury, Conn.; and Seattle. 
 Orlando, Fla., leads in entertainers and performers.
 The ''Artists in the Workforce'' report, prepared by Sunil Iyengar, the endowment's director of research and analysis, identified 185,000 writers, 170,000 musicians and singers, nearly 150,000 photographers, nearly 40,000 actors and 25,000 dancers. (They have the youngest median age, 26, and the highest proportion of minority workers, 40 percent). 
 The only artists whose ranks declined since 1990 were, as a group, fine artists, art directors and animators, to 216,000 from 278,000. The number of announcers also dropped. 
 More than one in four artists live in California and New York, where their sheer numbers are overwhelming compared to the artist colonies in other states. New Mexico, Vermont, Hawaii and Montana rank first in fine artists per capita, but they total 7,000, compared with 66,000 in California and New York combined. Since 2000 Minnesota, New Jersey, Rhode Island and New Mexico gained in the proportion of artists compared to all workers.
 Mr. Gioia attributed the spread of artists beyond traditional urban clusters to the growth of cultural institutions in maturing cities in the South and West, the mobility of the work force, technology that enables a painter in Santa Fe to reach a broader audience and the high cost of living in cities including Boston, New York, San Francisco and Los Angeles.
 Overall, the median income that artists reported in 2005 was $34,800 -- $42,000 for men and $27,300 for women. The median income of the 55 percent of artists who said they had worked full-time for a full year was $45,200. 
 Over all, artists make more than the national median income ($30,100). They are more highly educated but earn less than other professionals with the same level of schooling. They are likelier to be self-employed (about one in three and growing) and less likely to work full-time, year-round. (Dancers have the lowest median annual income of all artists, architects the highest -- $20,000 and $58,000, respectively.)
 ''Many performing artists are underemployed,'' Mr. Gioia said, ''but one of the stereotypes we're trying to debunk is that artists are mostly marginal and unemployed.'' 
 About 13 percent of people who say their primary occupation is artist also hold a second job -- about twice the rate that other people in the labor force work two jobs. The majority of artists work for for-profit enterprises but 8 percent work for private, nonprofits and 3 percent work for government. 
 While the number of artists doubled between 1970 and 1990 as theaters, galleries, orchestras and university and commercial venues grew, their ranks since 1990 have increased at about the same rate as the total work force. They now represent 1.4 percent of the labor force, or nearly as many people as the active and reserve armed forces. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dancers have the youngest median age (26), lowest median income ($20,000 a year) and highest proportion of minorities (40 percent) among professional artists, according to census data.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS)(pg. E6) CHART: Artists by the Numbers: According to 2005 Census data, there are approximately 1.99 million artists in the United States.(Source: National Endowment for the Arts) Chart details percentages for labor force. (pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DANCERS (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (89%); DANCE (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (77%); LAWYERS (75%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); ARMIES (72%); INTERIOR DECORATING (71%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (69%); MUSIC (61%); FARM LABOR (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



287 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Economy Is Sluggish and Under Pressure From Oil, Fed Says

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Vikas Bajaj contributed reporting from Chatham, Mass.

 BODY:
The economy sputtered along in May and the last weeks of April, as Americans spent less and overall growth stayed soft, the Federal Reserve said on Wednesday.
 In a report, the Fed sent a reminder that growth remained a hurdle for the central bank even as it steps up efforts to fight inflation. But many of the problems facing consumers and businesses alike stem from the record surge in oil prices, which are squeezing pocketbooks and bottom lines.
 The Fed's regular beige book, which surveys businesses in 12 metropolitan districts, declared economic activity as ''softer, weaker'' and ''slower, sluggish'' in most regions of the country. Activity did not expand in any area. 
 Inflation remained a primary point of concern. Americans ''were pinched by rising energy and food prices,'' the report said, leading many to delay big purchases like cars and household appliances. Sales of automobiles, particularly trucks and sport utility vehicles, also fell. 
 Retailers reported pressures to increase prices on popular consumer products, but many said they had trouble passing higher costs on to their customers.
 The report came as the Fed appeared to be shifting its policy focus to fighting inflation. Though central bankers have acknowledged that growth was weak and faced further challenges, they have also warned that keeping prices in check would be a crucial goal of the coming months.
 Oil prices jumped nearly $7 on Wednesday before falling back slightly, the fourth consecutive day of wild swings in the crude market. The near-term futures contract for crude oil settled at $136.38 a barrel in New York trading, up a little more than $5 a barrel. 
 The Fed's policy-setting committee will hold its next meeting on June 24 and 25. Many economists and investors believe the central bankers will hold interest rates steady.
 The meeting ''takes place in the context of modestly increased optimism about the economy and mounting anxiety about inflation and inflationary expectations,'' Peter Kretzmer, senior economist at Bank of America, wrote in a note. 
 ''The beige book's anecdotal evidence remained consistent with an economy characterized by sluggish growth to mild recession,'' he wrote. ''It also indicated substantial input price pressure, with firms enjoying some success at passing increases along.''
 In a speech on Wednesday, the vice chairman of the Fed, Donald L. Kohn, said the central bank was closely watching how rising oil prices were affecting broader inflation and expectations of higher prices.
 In recent years, Mr. Kohn said, the surge in oil prices has not led to higher inflation expectations, but he added that ''the anchoring of expectations cannot be taken as given.'' He noted that expectations of year-ahead inflation had risen this year.
 ''Any tendency for these longer-term inflation expectations to drift higher or even to fail to reverse over time would have troublesome implications for the outlook for inflation,'' he said.
 But it takes time for the rise in oil prices to filter into the price of other goods and wages, he added. The best course of action for central bankers, he said, might be to let that process play out, as long as inflation expectations do not rise significantly.
 ''An appropriate monetary policy following a jump in the price of oil will allow, on a temporary basis, both some increase in unemployment and some increase in price inflation,'' he said.
 Mr. Kohn was speaking at a conference on inflation held by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston two days after the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said at the same event that the Fed would ''strongly resist'' higher inflation expectations.
 The beige book also reported that activity in the manufacturing industry stayed soft last month. Hiring was ''spotty'' in most of the surveyed districts, and residential and commercial real estate businesses reported little increase in activity across the country.
 Most metropolitan districts said that workers' wages had stagnated during the survey period. Businesses in Boston, Chicago, Kansas City and San Francisco said wages were moving up slightly ''for certain skilled labor positions in industries facing worker shortages.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Mixed Growth in Most Regions: A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed on Wednesday. Based on information collected on or before June 2.(Source: Bloomberg News) Charts detail various regions throughout US. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); FUTURES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); FOOD PRICES (72%); RETAILERS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



288 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Commodity Prices Show No Letup

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD and JAD MOUAWAD; David Streitfeld reported from Chicago, and Jad Mouawad from New York.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Commodity prices went wild on Wednesday, with the price of corn shooting through the $7 barrier for the first time, soybeans and wheat moving up sharply and oil jumping more than $5 a barrel.
 Corn prices, which have been hitting new highs for a week, are reacting to six weeks of heavy rains and cool weather in the Midwest. That prevented planting in some areas, leading some farmers to abandon the crop in the last few days. It is still raining.
 The bad weather comes as supplies of corn, wheat and other staples are already tight thanks to soaring global demand. 
 The higher commodity prices are likely to add to a worldwide inflationary picture that seems to worsen by the day. Prices of many grocery items in the United States have been rising briskly, with some goods like eggs and milk -- produced from animals fed with corn -- up by 13 to 30 percent in the past year.
 ''You know those complaints you've been hearing about high food prices? They've just begun,'' said Jason Ward, an analyst with Northstar Commodity in Minneapolis.
 Corn for July delivery closed on the Chicago Board of Trade at $7.03 a bushel, up 30 cents. Next year's corn was trading even higher, finishing at $7.47 a bushel and above. Soybeans, which rose 70 cents, to $15.16 a bushel, are now less than a dollar short of their winter record.
 Even wheat, which had fallen in recent months as traders and growers predicted a big crop, rose 60 cents to $8.69 a bushel.
 Meanwhile, oil futures jumped $5.07 to close at $136.38 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The immediate catalyst was an Energy Department report showing commercial oil stockpiles in the United States fell 4.56 million barrels, to 302.2 million last week, a much bigger drop than analysts had expected.
 In the previous two days, oil prices had retreated from Friday's record of $138.54 a barrel. Some traders say that the market is now gearing for a quick rise to $150 a barrel.
 The high oil prices are translating into acute pain at the pump, with gasoline hitting a nationwide average of $4.05 a gallon on Wednesday, a record. Diesel hit $4.79 a gallon, also a record.
 A steep drop in the dollar this year has pushed up prices for oil, gold and other commodities as investors seek assets that provide a hedge against the falling American currency. Not coincidentally, the dollar, which had appreciated in recent days, fell against the euro on Wednesday.
 ''This is just crazy volatility,'' said Stephen Schork, an independent energy analyst. ''At this point, this is absolutely a bubble. High prices have become a justification for higher prices and $150 a barrel is quickly turning into a self-fulfilling prophecy.''
 Not all analysts believe the oil price is a bubble, however. Many point to frenzied growth in oil consumption in Asia, which they fear will outstrip the ability of oil companies to add new supplies.
 While demand has been falling in the United States, global oil consumption is still expected to rise this year because of growing demand from emerging economies that subsidize fuel prices, like China and some Middle Eastern countries.
 On Wednesday, China said that its crude oil imports had surged 25 percent last month as the country coped with the aftermath of the devastating earthquake that struck in May.
 ''What we're seeing is a very painful experiment to see what price will get demand to slow down,'' said Adam E. Sieminski, chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank. ''Four dollars a gallon is slowing consumption in the United States. But there is an awful lot of people in the developing world and they all want a car and they all want a better diet. That is putting a lot of pressure on food and energy prices.''
 After years of oversupply, there is now not enough food to go around. Expectations for the 2008 harvest are rapidly declining. 
 The Agriculture Department this week cut its yield expectations for corn by 5 bushels an acre, to 148.9 bushels, a big drop for a growing season that has just begun. It now estimates the 2008 crop at 11.7 billion bushels, down 390 million bushels from what it was expecting last month. 
 Since the rain has not yet let up, these figures could prove optimistic. In its weekly crop rating, the Agriculture Department said that the quality of the corn was notably lower this year, with the amount deemed ''excellent'' only half that of the 2007 crop. 
 Rick Corners of Centralia, Ill., had to replant all 500 acres of his corn after it rotted, something he had never done in 33 years of farming. He finished last week, a month behind schedule, and considered himself lucky. 
 ''I heard about a farmer in northern Illinois who had to plant his corn three times, and now he's under water again,'' Mr. Corners said. 
 Soybeans are generally planted after corn but their price is also being pushed up by the weather and other developments, including a report that China increased its soybean imports in May by 45 percent from the previous month. A strike by Argentine farmers is also serving to limit the world's supply.
 Palle Pedersen, an agronomist at Iowa State University in Ames, said 20 percent of the soybean crop in the state still had to be planted or replanted. 
 ''Every day it rains, the chances of an average crop get smaller and smaller,'' Mr. Pedersen said. 
 The abundance of rain in the corn and soybean belt for the last six weeks -- accompanied until recently by chilly temperatures that impeded crop progress -- was highly unusual, said Dale Mohler, a meteorologist with AccuWeather.com. ''A wet spell of this magnitude in the Midwest probably only happens once every 50 years,'' he said.
 However belated, relief might be on the way for beleaguered farmers. The meteorologist said he expected drier weather to prevail next week.
 The crop news is not entirely bleak. This week, the Agriculture Department raised by 2 percent its forecast for the size of the winter wheat harvest, which is now under way.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A cornfield outside Decatur, Ill.Wild swings in the weather, including far too much rain, threaten crops in the Midwest.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH PERLMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL PRICES (92%); CORN MARKETS (91%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); WEATHER (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); WHEAT FARMING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (79%); FUTURES (79%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); GASOLINE MARKETS (79%); FUEL MARKETS (79%); FOOD PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); EURO (60%)

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (82%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (82%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



289 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Yankees Seek I.R.S. Rule Change, and Perhaps More Money for Stadium

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: ALBANY, N.Y. 

 BODY:
New York City officials confirmed on Wednesday that the Yankees might be interested in seeking more public financing to build their new stadium, pending a regulation change by the Internal Revenue Service. 
 ''The effort on the completion bonds will not affect the completion of the stadium,'' the team president, Randy Levine, said in a statement. ''We are working under the strong leadership of the city and state along with other projects to seek relief from the I.R.S. regulation.''
 Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation, which is working with the Yankees, said the project was not threatened. But, she said, the city is working to relieve a regulation that prohibits more public debt to be incurred for the stadium. 
 State Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester, said that the I.R.S. change was also being sought to help stadium and arena projects for the Mets and Nets. The Yankees' $1.3 billion stadium is scheduled to open next year.
 ''The Yankees have expressed an interest in receiving additional financing for their project,'' Ms. Patterson said. ''Currently, they are not permitted to do so on a tax-exempt basis pursuant to I.R.S. regulation.''
 She said the city's Industrial Development Agency, which can use public financing to help companies expand, would consider increased financing, but no decision had been made.
 The Yankees did not say how much additional financing the club was seeking.
 ''The city is working with the state in Washington to seek relief from the applicable I.R.S. regulation, as this regulation has taken away a tool that would be useful for a number of important New York economic development projects, not just Yankee Stadium,'' she said.
 Mr. Brodsky, chairman of the State Assembly's committee governing public authorities and their borrowing, criticized the closed-door dealing for millions of dollars to benefit the Yankees in the face of other needs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); NEW YORK METS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (89%); ALBANY, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



290 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: A Couple Grapple for Love, and Love of Achievement

BYLINE: By GREG BISHOP

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
Friends say Patricia Miranda and Levi Weikel-Magden argue like an old married couple, but really, they argue more like what they are -- married wrestlers with law degrees.
 Most couples start out dating. They started with constant debating, with topics ranging from ''Star Trek'' to immigration policy, with Miranda occasionally throwing a head butt to make a point.
 It took eight years before Weikel-Magden made the most persuasive argument yet -- he persuaded Miranda, a women's wrestling pioneer and bronze medalist in 2004, to come out of retirement for one final shot at an Olympic gold medal -- with a twist that held potential for disaster and delight. He wanted to become her coach, and he did in September 2005.
 ''We're going to look back at this chapter, this amazing chapter, as the point where we really learned to trust one another,'' Weikel-Magden said. 
 They met at Stanford in 1997, two overachievers who were teammates and friends before all the dating and debating. From the first day, their teammate Warren McPherson said they were inseparable.
 Weikel-Magden came from an eastern Oregon town so small the closest movie theater was two and a half hours away. He sent a recruiting tape to Stanford coaches filled with all his losses and somehow managed to secure a scholarship.
 Miranda arrived from Silicon Valley, the only female on the team, the daughter of Brazilian immigrants, including a father who once threatened to sue the school district if she wrestled.
 She had decided not to date teammates, out of respect for team chemistry, but something kept drawing Miranda and Weikel-Magden together. They started dating shortly after a Halloween party at which Weikel-Magden showed up at her dormitory room without a costume and ended up borrowing her clothes to dress in drag.
 Miranda, who turned 29 on Tuesday, can pinpoint when she knew they would make a life together. The summer after their freshman year, after her future husband had cracked the varsity lineup ''looking like a 12-year-old, still a year away from puberty,'' she received a telephone call from his parents.
 Levi is in the hospital ... Crohn's Disease ... massive infection ... complications ...surgery. 
 Upon hearing the predicament, her father, incapable of anything other than brutal truth, said, ''Oh, that one's gone.''
 Earlier that day, Weikel-Magden's small intestine ruptured. He spent nearly three hours on the couch, pain. Family members rushed him to the hospital.
 ''I'm screaming bloody murder,'' he said. ''I wish I was tougher. But screaming at the top of my lungs was all I could do to make it manageable.''
 Doctors diagnosed Crohn's, an autoimmune disease that confuses the immune system and causes inflammation in the digestive track. By the time Miranda arrived the weekend after the operation, Weikel-Magden had lost 30 pounds.
 They were lying together on the hospital bed when doctors explained that Weikel-Magden would live with the disease the rest of his life. Weikel-Magden flashed, of all things, a smile. He considered himself fortunate.
 ''That's when I knew,'' Miranda said. ''I'd rather spend 10 years with him than 50 with anyone else I ever met.''
 After graduating from Stanford, Weikel-Magden went to law school at Virginia, while Miranda deferred her enrollment at Yale to train for the 2004 Athens Games -- the Olympic debut for women's wrestling. He helped coach her to the bronze medal, the first Olympic medal for an American female wrestler.
 Miranda then retired and went to Yale Law, adding to an undergraduate degree in economics and a master's degree in international policy.
 She missed wrestling, but not in the way that she expected. She did not miss the glory, the accolades or the applause, she said. Rather, she missed the serendipity that came with being a world-class athlete -- being stranded in a Russian airport while the airline lost her luggage, bumming around Sweden for a week while waiting for teammates to arrive.
 Mainly, she missed the moments shared. And Weikel-Magden, in the persuasive argument, wanted to share them with her.
 The pitch: ''You are so close to just dominating,'' he said he told her.
 ''He's a good salesman,'' Miranda concedes now. But for the first six months of the experiment, she wished she had stayed retired.
 Folding the worlds of husband and wife, coach and athlete proved difficult. She promised trust but felt betrayed when her husband scolded her at practice, only to later feel like a failure for not trusting more.
 This spilled into their home life. One time, Weikel-Magden took home a new toothbrush and started teaching Miranda how to use it. ''You can't coach me on how to brush my teeth!'' she said.
 Early on at Stanford, the couple shared a wrestling weakness: too much thinking in a sport where instinct dominates. During matches, they would think about things like the color of the ceiling, what they would tell their parents if they lost, whether the sweat on their coaches' hands indicated frayed nerves.
 ''It's overthinking, and it's intellectual,'' Weikel-Magden said. ''And wrestling is anything but intellectual. We can be our own worst enemies that way.''
 He taught himself to compete instinctively, and something surprising happened. Weikel-Magden found he loved fighting, enduring pain and hurting people. Even after surgery, he did not miss a practice.
 He needed to tap into Miranda's violent vein, conjure emotions like anger and hatred. This did not come naturally for Miranda, who took a personality test at Yale expecting to score opposite her classmates because of wrestling. Instead, she scored similarly to them.
 ''It's actually very counterintuitive, but it's learning to be poised and angry and relaxed,'' Weikel-Magden said. ''It's not being more focused. It's not doing more work.''
 Added Matt Huttner, a friend, ''Even in the toughest times in their relationship, what made it work is Levi had a plan.''
 To stop her from worrying and overthinking, Weikel-Magden took over the household chores, cooking and cleaning, and imploring Miranda to rest. Eventually, Miranda started to catch on. She breezed through the nationals and now needs to win only twice this weekend to qualify for the Olympics. Along the way, they learned a level of trust neither knew existed.
 Weikel-Magden said that this made for a stronger marriage, that it would make them stronger parents. Miranda said her first thought every morning was, ''Wow, I'm so lucky to have you.''
 Three years after the persuasive argument, Weikel-Magden admits to dreaming about the end -- his wife, on the podium, in part because of him.
 ''They've put together quite a trophy case,'' their friend McPherson said. ''That would be like the crown jewel. All the years they put in, all the sacrifices they've made. They put everything on hold for this one goal, this one dream. It's right there.''
 Both the principals agree. For once, there is no argument.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Patricia Miranda, top, won a bronze medal in wrestling in Athens. Her husband and coach, Levi Weikel-Magden, at rear above, persuaded her to come out of retirement to try for gold in Beijing.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); WRESTLING (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (84%); FAMILY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); IMMIGRATION (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); SPORTS AWARDS (70%); OLYMPICS (70%); STUDENT HOUSING (69%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (68%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (64%); HALLOWEEN (63%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (71%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%) OREGON, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



291 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Americans Living in a Material World

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 It isn't often that I agree with David Brooks, but ''The Great Seduction'' (column, June 10) was at least the beginning of a conversation in which America desperately needs to engage. 
 His litany of responsibility for our culture's chronic indebtedness, however, barely hints at the extent to which the commodification of everything inhabits our lives in this free-market paradise. 
 Our entire economy is founded on mindless and infinite consumption -- the more mindless the better. It's the American credo: I consume, therefore I am. Why else do TV and radio (and, increasingly, the Internet) exist except to sell us more of anything and everything? 
 What does Mr. Brooks think will happen to this economy if Americans suddenly decide to embrace Ben Franklin's virtues of hard work, temperance and particularly frugality, and stop roaming the malls? One thing for sure, with the way the free-market purists have turned everything from political representation to health care to spiritual redemption into mere vendibles, they won't be pleased with him for pushing this particular line of inquiry. 
 Mr. Brooks could be expelled from Club Neocapitalism if he doesn't watch out, and it will cost him a pretty penny to buy his way back in.
 Stephen Lehman St. Paul, June 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks does not mention that it was the supposed conservative policies of the last 30 years that underwrote the huge increase in personal and government borrowing. The combined effects of the loosening of regulations on financial institutions, an unraveling of consumer protections, the president encouraging Americans to go out and shop after 9/11 and unaffordable tax cuts for corporations and the wealthy have conspired to wreak havoc on personal and government finances.
 If we are now to make financial ''conservatism'' a virtue, above all others, what policies does he recommend we turn back to help us achieve this goal? Or will we once more get value-laden rhetoric on the one hand while the other hand does just the opposite? 
 Michael Weinstein Scarsdale, N.Y., June 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks aptly describes many of the symptoms of the current financial and economic decadence, but he misses the root cause: the shredding of the social contract. 
 State governments must aggressively hawk their lotteries because politicians, primarily Republicans, have so successfully hawked their antitax message, yet the roads and bridges must be built, the schools run, the poor and the infirm cared for. Lotteries are the most regressive of taxes, but that form of class war has become morally acceptable.
 Meanwhile, hedge funds produce speculative bubbles and deregulation has produced crises in savings and loans, the mortgage industry and electricity over the last 20 years. These are the fruits of the Reagan Revolution. America lost.
 Kevin McNamara Houston, June 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I would suggest one revision to David Brooks's otherwise helpful analysis. Many poor and working-class Americans who are mired in credit card debt and prey to payday lenders do not undervalue thrift. Indeed, they are far more adept than their wealthy compatriots at making little go a long way. Their problem is that they are underpaid and underinsured (if insured at all).
 The small-town banks that used to extend small-town business loans are nowhere to be found. Credit cards are frequently the only means they have to pay their medical bills and other decidedly mundane expenses. It is time to recognize that the alleged profligacy of the poor is an inaccurate diagnosis of an economy that is simply not oriented toward any measure of equality.
 Shari Jacobson Selinsgrove, Pa., June 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks's column surprised me. Noting that wealth has corrupted the country and that financial mores have deteriorated, he then narrowly points his finger at such phenomena as the dramatic rise in lottery spending and the accumulation of credit card debt.
 Poorer people are trying to emulate the shakers and movers in our country and they get skewered for it. The real problem emanates from those who have more and want still more. We have created a take-no-prisoners business environment allowing unconscionable compensation to business leaders who themselves seem insatiable and are often unworthy. We have nurtured the creed of Greed. 
 If we want to get back to old-fashioned values, we must rein in those who supposedly set an example for those millions of Americans who have been led to believe that the brass ring is within grasp.
 Michael A. Nayor Westport, Conn., June 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks highlights one of the biggest problems facing the United States today. In addition to his many suggestions to correct Americans' problem with debt, state school boards around the country should mandate a course on personal financial management and budgeting as a requirement for graduation. 
 Not a microeconomics class, but rather a practical class focused on the day-to-day issues of managing people's money -- comparison shopping, paying bills, checking and savings accounts, investment possibilities, credit cards, leasing versus buying, mortgages, investment options, filing tax returns and so on.
 While many of us learn these things from our parents, if they had no formal training, we may just continue to make the same mistakes they made. 
 Rob Fenstermacher White Plains, June 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I made a deal with my kids when they went to college. I would pay all their expenses, but they could not have credit cards until they had full-time jobs after graduation. 
 The criticism from friends was that my children would suffer for lack of a credit history. But debt history can be a lifelong problem. The best credit history one can have is a sizable savings account balance.
 Lisa Calef Albany, Calif., June 10, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW HOLLISTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); TAX LAW (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); CONSUMER LAW (64%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); SAVINGS & LOANS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



292 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: An Anger In Korea Over More Than Beef

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
When tens of thousands of South Koreans spilled into central Seoul on Tuesday in the country's largest antigovernment protest in 20 years, the police built a barricade with shipping containers. They coated them with oil and filled them with sandbags so protesters could not climb or topple them to march on President Lee Myung-bak's office a couple of blocks away.
 Faced with the wall, people pasted identical leaflets on it, their message dramatically summarizing Mr. Lee's image and alienation from many of his people: ''This is a new border for our country. From here starts the U.S. state of South Korea.''
 In the background, a female voice from a battery of loudspeakers led the crowd to chant: ''Lee Myung-bak is Lee Wan-yong!'' 
 Lee Wan-yong is an infamous name every South Korean child knows. A royal court minister at the turn of the last century who helped Imperial Japan annex Korea as a colony, he is Korea's No. 1 national traitor.
 The protests illuminate the shift in President Lee's political fortunes. When he was elected last December, South Koreans hailed him as a long-awaited leader who could salvage their country's alliance with the United States, which was strained under Mr. Lee's left-leaning predecessor, Roh Moo-hyun.
 Only six months later, Mr. Lee finds Koreans vilifying him as something Mr. Roh famously said he would never become: ''a Korean leader kowtowing to the Americans.''
 ''While championing a pragmatic leadership, Mr. Lee overlooked Koreans' nationalistic pride,'' said Choi Jin, director of the Institute of Presidential Leadership in Seoul. ''If what troubled Roh's presidency was too much nationalism, Lee's problem is a lack of it.''
 The chants showed that the demonstration was not merely about the president's unpopular decision to lift an import ban on American beef. It also tapped into Korean pride. 
 This is a small country in a strategic location with a deep sense of grievance about being manipulated by the great powers around it. Chinese emperors demanded tribute from Korea; Japanese occupiers forbade Koreans to speak their own language; American, Chinese and Russian cold war rivalries divided Korea in two. While mostly approving of their alliance with the United States, South Koreans remain acutely sensitive to any suggestion that they must do America's bidding.
 Mr. Lee's slumping popularity was sown in his first glorious moment as president.
 On April 19, he became the first South Korean leader to be invited to the United States presidential retreat of Camp David, Md. Days before the visit, his aides billed the meeting with President Bush as a momentous event -- one that never would have been granted to leaders like Mr. Roh, who was often accused of being too nationalistic and anti-American.
 South Koreans who had fought alongside the Americans during the Korean War in the early 1950s took to the streets in joy. They trusted Mr. Lee to save the country from what they called ''leftist, anti-U.S. and pro-North Korean elements,'' like Mr. Roh.
 On the eve of the summit meeting, Seoul agreed to lift a five-year-old ban on American beef imports, imposed after a case of mad cow disease was confirmed in the United States. By traveling with a political gift for Mr. Bush, Mr. Lee demonstrated how eager he was to rebuild ties with Washington.
 Little did he apparently imagine the reaction at home, among young South Koreans who had been watching with a cold eye.
 ''What he did was little different from an old Korean king offering tribute to a Chinese emperor,'' said Kim Sook-yi, a 35-year-old homemaker who joined the protest on Tuesday with her two children. ''This time, we give a tribute to Washington? It's humiliating, bad for education for Korean children.''
 The demonstrations began on May 2, when hundreds of teenagers held a candlelight vigil in Seoul, and quickly snowballed. By this week they had become so overpowering that the entire cabinet offered to resign.
 Foreign bloggers watching the brouhaha ask: Why would thousands of South Koreans join protests about mad cow disease but not ask why Americans are not protesting American beef? Would South Koreans demonstrate with the same intensity if the beef came from Australia or New Zealand? What about Korean-Americans who eat American beef?
 To many South Koreans, however, the beef dispute is not entirely about health concerns or science. It is not entirely about the economy, either -- beef from the United States is half the price of homegrown meat. To them, it is also the latest test of whether their leader can resist pressure from superpowers, even if there is good reason for the pressure, as is the case in the beef dispute. South Korea had promised to lift the ban once the World Organization for Animal Health ruled American beef fit for consumption, as it did last September.
 South Korea has built the world's 13th largest economy largely through exports. Nonetheless, historical resentments linger. 
 South Koreans in their 40s remember words from a popular childhood song handed down from their fathers and grandfathers: ''Don't be cheated by the Soviets. Don't trust the Americans. Or the Japanese will rise again.'' Koreans still chafe at the fact that the United States and the Soviet Union divided Korea after liberating it from Japanese colonial rule at the end of World War II.
 Whether a South Korean leader can navigate this current of nationalistic sentiment can make or break his career.
 When two South Korean teenage girls were killed by an American military armored vehicle six years ago, it first appeared to be nothing more than a tragic traffic accident. But many young Koreans who had grown to regard the American military presence with humiliation rallied in protest.
 Mr. Roh, a relative political neophyte, quickly rode the wave into election victory. 
 But South Koreans soon grew tired of Mr. Roh's ideological pronouncements, which often strained the alliance with the United States. They gave a landslide victory to Mr. Lee, who promised to bring pragmatism into the presidency.
 ''Lee was overconfident,'' said Kang Won-taek, a professor of political science at Soongsil University. ''He thought since people rejected Roh, he could go just the opposite.''
 Many experts in Seoul draw a careful line between nationalism and anti-Americanism among Koreans. They say the recent series of demonstrations were more an expression of the former than the latter. But the divide gets thin sometimes.
 Alexander Vershbow, the United States ambassador in South Korea, got a taste of the simmering anti-American sentiment when he emphasized the safety of American beef last week. ''We hope that Koreans will begin to understand more about the science and about the facts of American beef,'' he said.
 The next day, politicians and protesters called the comment an ''insult to all Korean citizens.''
 Jeon Sang-il, a sociologist at Sogang University, said the men seemed to have shot themselves in the foot.
 ''These days, Koreans say there are only two anti-Americans in South Korea,'' Mr. Jeon said. ''One is Lee Myung-bak and the other Vershbow. They stoked anti-American sentiments with what they did and what they said.''
 Mr. Vershbow expressed regret that he was misunderstood.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A news analysis article on Thursday about the connection between anti-government protests in South Korea and its April decision to lift a five-year-old ban on American beef, which many South Koreans fear may be contaminated, misstated the month in 2007 when the World Organization for Animal Health ruled that the beef was fit for consumption. It was May, not September. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters in Seoul, South Korea, expressed their anger behind a barricade of shipping containers that had been erected to keep them from the president's office. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE JIN-MAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); COLD WAR (74%); BEEF (66%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (61%); MEATS (61%); IMPORT CONTROLS (50%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTHERN ASIA (95%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



293 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Officials Broaden Focus of Inquiry Into Corruption in Crane Inspections

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

 BODY:
The authorities have widened their criminal investigation of potential corruption inside the Department of Buildings' crane inspection operations to focus on several current and former agency employees who had responsibilities in that area, a law enforcement official involved in the inquiry said on Wednesday.
 Last week the investigation by the Manhattan district attorney's office and the city's Department of Investigation led to the arrest of the city's chief crane inspector, James Delayo, who is accused of taking bribes over a period of years. 
 Authorities are now focusing more broadly on the Buildings Department's Cranes and Derricks Unit, a small division responsible for licensing and inspecting cranes, the official said. 
 Investigators will also examine the process by which the Buildings Department issues licenses to the workers who operate tower cranes like the massive machines that collapsed in two fatal accidents in less than three months. The accidents, on March 15 on East 51st Street and May 30 on East 91st Street, killed nine people and are the subject of separate criminal inquires.
 In arresting Mr. Delayo, 60, on felony bribe-receiving charges on Friday, investigators accused him of taking thousands of dollars in exchange for allowing cranes to pass inspection and for ensuring that one crane company's employees would pass a licensing test to operate smaller cranes. He was also accused of selling a copy of the test and its answers to the crane company.
 ''The investigation that was focused on the crane collapse and the circumstances under which that happened has expanded into the licensing of crane operators as well as the yearly inspections of cranes themselves,'' the official said.
 Mr. Delayo was the second member of the unit to be arrested in less than three months, leaving just four inspectors assigned to the Cranes and Derricks Unit. In March, another inspector, Edward J. Marquette, was charged with faking a report that said he visited the crane on East 51st Street in response to a complaint a week before it collapsed, although officials said it was highly unlikely that the missed inspection was related to the accident.
 The official said that while Mr. Delayo was accused of taking bribes for ensuring that a handful of licenses for small cranes -- known as Class C licenses -- were issued, ''prudence would dictate that you have to look at a broader picture of licensing,'' particularly the Class B licenses under which workers operate the larger cranes. The official noted that a recent state report found a range of improprieties in the issuance of crane licenses outside New York City and thus underscored the opportunities for corruption in the licensing process.
 Kate Lindquist, a spokeswoman for the Buildings Department, said on Wednesday that the agency would have no comment on reports of an expanding review of crane operations. 
 The accidents and investigations come at a time when the city's Buildings Department -- for decades plagued by mismanagement and a culture of corruption -- is again the focus of intense scrutiny. In the face of an unprecedented building boom, and despite measures aimed at modernizing its operations and increasing safety, it is struggling to deal with a rash of construction deaths and inspection lapses.
 In April, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg forced out his building commissioner, Patricia J. Lancaster, who was widely respected in the construction and design industries.
 The administration has yet to name her successor, and one official has expressed concern about its difficulties finding a replacement. The agency is being run by an acting commissioner, Robert LiMandri, but he does not have the requisite professional certification as an engineer or architect, although he has an undergraduate degree in engineering. 
 Despite the slumping economy, the pace of construction in the city has been barely affected. So the workload for the inspectors in the small Cranes and Derricks Unit has continued unabated, despite the widening investigation. 
 After the March collapse, the Buildings Department assigned eight inspectors from a special rapid response unit within the agency to work with the Cranes and Derricks inspectors and changed the protocol so that two inspectors go on each site visit. 
 Ms. Lindquist said the department was conducting more inspections because of the added staff in the unit and protocols that required more scrutiny.
 Last week, on the day of Mr. Delayo's arrest, Mr. LiMandri issued a statement saying the agency was overhauling the unit, where he said there was ''much work to be done.''
 ''Our No. 1 priority is to ensure the department's staff conduct their jobs with the utmost integrity as we continue to forge ahead with our reforms,'' he said.
 Officials said the investigation remained in an early stage. 
 ''We've gotten a handful of tips, based on the recent arrest, and we're following up on those tips as we would in any case,'' said Daniel J. Castleman, the chief assistant in the district attorney's office. ''And we certainly encourage anyone with information to call and tell us what they know, either as an anonymous source or by identifying themselves.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James Delayo, the city's chief crane inspector, was arrested Friday on bribery charges. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Seven people were killed in a crane collapse on March 15 on East 51st Street in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); BRIBERY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); ARRESTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LICENSES & PERMITS (74%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (73%); FELONIES (73%)

COMPANY: CRANE CO (93%)

TICKER: CR (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333996 FLUID POWER PUMP & MOTOR MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS332912 FLUID POWER VALVE & HOSE FITTING MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS332911 INDUSTRIAL VALVE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3594 FLUID POWER PUMPS & MOTORS (93%); SIC3492 FLUID POWER VALVES & HOSE FITTINGS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



294 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Bronx Produce Co-op Says Market May Leave the City

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
For 41 years a raucous, muscular ballet of men and trucks, shipping pallets and sweat has unfolded before dawn most days at the Hunts Point produce market in the South Bronx. 
 The market, a wholesale co-op, has been so successful that it has nearly outgrown its current home. So its directors have asked the city, which owns the property, to help them pay for an expansion that would cost more than $450 million. 
 But according to the co-op, the city has balked at its request, and now the co-op is threatening to take its market out of the city -- possibly as soon as its lease expires in 2011. 
 ''For eight years I've wanted to make a deal with the city,'' said Matthew D'Arrigo, co-president of the Hunts Point Terminal Produce Cooperative Association Inc., who also runs a produce distribution business started by his grandfather. ''I grew up in this market, and I want to stay here. But I also don't want to make a deal that is not the best deal for the 50 merchants in this market.''
 He said that the sides discussed financing at a recent meeting and that the city's initial response was tepid. ''The conversation didn't end in a very satisfying way,'' Mr. D'Arrigo said Wednesday. ''They were unprepared to commit to anything because of the economy.''
 But Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the New York City Economic Development Corporation, said the city was surprised by the co-op's threat to uproot, a threat reported by The New York Post on Wednesday. The discussions about financing an expansion are still nascent, she said.
 ''We value the market for its significant impact on New York City and are actively working with the co-op to determine an expansion plan that would satisfy the co-op's needs and be feasible for the city,'' she said. 
 Asked if the city had declaratively refused to share the costs of an expansion, she responded: ''No, no, no. We're very concerned about the market, and we want to do everything we can to help it.''
 Mr. D'Arrigo said the market's four warehouses, each measuring a third of a mile long, were antiquated and too small to handle the growing volume of trade and the gargantuan, semitrailer trucks of today. 
 The produce market is operated separately from two other wholesale markets in Hunts Point, one selling fish and the other meat.
 The produce co-op has drawn up plans for two new buildings on its lot, incorporating green technology and expanding the market's storage capacity by 50 percent. The expansion would also allow a retrofitting of two older buildings with more cold storage area, something the market currently lacks, the co-op's directors said. 
 Mr. D'Arrigo said that the co-op's directors had not yet begun a search for another location but that they had been contacted by people interested in luring the market out of New York City to sites ''to the north and to the west.'' He did not get more specific. 
 The market's departure from the Bronx would put a significant dent in the city's economy. The co-op's directors say the market handles about $2 billion in sales per year. 
 The market's move to, say, Westchester or New Jersey would also have a huge impact on the food retail industry, forcing many of its clients -- mainly the city's restaurateurs and small grocers -- to travel a greater distance to buy their fruit and vegetables. 
 That extra mileage could translate into higher prices for consumers.
 ''We would be hopeful that this is no more than a bargaining position by the produce market,'' said Richard Lipsky, a lobbyist for small business owners in New York. ''At the same time, I think the city has to take it seriously.''
 He added: ''The current site is ideal. It's convenient for a whole wide range of retailers and restaurateurs, and the city has to move quickly to ensure that the current location of the produce market is maintained.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHOLESALERS (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



295 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Criticize McCain on Strategy in Iraq

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
The presidential campaigns clashed Wednesday over strategy in Iraq as advisers to Senator Barack Obama seized on remarks by Senator John McCain to accuse him of being insensitive to the sacrifices being made by American soldiers.
 In an interview on the NBC ''Today'' show, Mr. McCain was asked whether, if the troop escalation he had long advocated in Iraq was working, he had ''a better estimate of when American forces can come home.'' 
 ''No, but that's not too important,'' Mr. McCain replied. He then went on to say, as he has many times, that the most important goal is reducing casualties in Iraq, and that American troops were still in South Korea, Japan and Germany without any fear of harm. 
 ''We will be able to withdraw,'' he said. ''But the key to it is that we don't want any more Americans in harm's way.''
 Democrats leapt to criticize Mr. McCain for playing down the strains of the war. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, issued a statement calling Mr. McCain's remark ''a crystal clear indicator that he just doesn't get the grave national security consequences of staying the course. Osama bin Laden is freely plotting attacks, our efforts in Afghanistan are undermanned, and our military readiness has been dangerously diminished.''
 The Obama campaign jumped in with a conference call for reporters, with Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the Democratic Party's nominee in 2004, and two Obama foreign policy advisers.
 ''It is unbelievably out of touch with the needs and concerns of Americans, particularly of the families of the troops that are over there,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''To them it is the most important thing in the world.''
 Mr. Kerry, who considered having Mr. McCain as his vice-presidential nominee in 2004, said that military officials had said that they could not sustain the troop levels in Iraq and that the demands of that war had left the United States unable to react to other crises or meet the needs of the war in Afghanistan.
 The Obama advisers argued that Mr. McCain has several times seemed ''confused'' about the situation in Iraq, noting that he has confused Sunnis for Shiites and incorrectly identified whom Iran was supporting.
 ''On critical, factual questions that are fundamental to understanding what is going on in Iraq and the region, Senator McCain has gotten it wrong and not just once but repeatedly,'' said Susan Rice, a former assistant secretary of state.
 Shortly after, Mr. McCain, at a town-hall-style meeting with about 500 people at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia, took pains to acknowledge the sacrifices the war has demanded.
 ''Nothing is more precious than Americans, and I know that it has caused great heartache and pain,'' he said, ''but I also want to tell you that I believe in the conflict in Iraq with this new strategy, we are succeeding.
 ''Every American is precious, every casualty is someone that pains and grieves us, no one more than a veteran,'' said Mr. McCain, who spent five years as a prisoner of war during Vietnam. ''But the consequences of failure would be chaos and genocide in the region.''
 Reflecting the rapid-response nature of the race, the McCain campaign then arranged a conference call of its own to defend and explain his comments. 
 ''The obvious fact is that more than most any American, Senator McCain knows the sacrifices that our men and women in uniform make and the burden that their families bear and it really is wrong to suggest otherwise,'' Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut said in the call. Mr. Lieberman, a former Democrat, was re-elected in 2006 as an independent after being defeated in the Democratic primary largely because of his support for the war.
 The war had receded somewhat as an issue in the campaign as the economy and record gas prices had dominated the discussion. But it is the issue that most starkly divides the candidates. Mr. McCain has been a long supporter of the war -- though he criticized the Bush administration for the first four years of the war for not providing enough troops; he has argued that the increase in troops last year has helped to reduce casualties and move Iraq toward stability. Mr. Obama was not in the Senate when the war began but was outspoken in his opposition to it early on.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama at a graduation on Wednesday in Chicago. His campaign seized on McCain remarks on Iraq. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Senator John McCain, at a town-hall-style meeting in Philadelphia on Wednesday, emphasized sacrifices the war has demanded. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); HARRY REID (58%); SUSAN RICE (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



296 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Offer Plans To Revamp Schools Law

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
Democrats are dividing into camps as they debate a new course for education policy after President Bush leaves office.
 On Wednesday, a group of a dozen prominent educators and lawmakers, led by Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein of New York and the Rev. Al Sharpton, said the United States' public schools shortchanged poor black and Latino children in a way that was ''shameful,'' and urged Washington to squeeze teachers and administrators harder to raise achievement among minorities. 
 On Tuesday, about 60 prominent educators and academics issued another manifesto, which criticized the federal No Child Left Behind law and argued that schools alone could not close a racial achievement gap rooted in economic inequality. They urged a new emphasis on health clinics and other antipoverty programs that could help poor students arrive at school ready to learn. 
 The groups issuing the statements were composed overwhelmingly of Democrats. 
 Mr. Klein and Mr. Sharpton's statement argued that federal policy should continue to hold schools accountable for raising the achievement of poor African-American and Latino youths, which is a focus of the federal law, but should also seek to assign more effective teachers to the nation's neediest classrooms. This is an area where the statement said the law had been weak. 
 Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark, the president of the Colorado Senate and the leaders of the Washington and Baltimore school systems also signed the statement. 
 The statement included a passage labeling teachers union contracts a significant obstacle to increasing the achievement of poor students.
 ''We must insist that our elected officials confront and address head-on crucial issues that created this crisis: teachers' contracts and state policies that keep ineffective teachers in classrooms and too often make it nearly impossible to get our best teachers paired up with the students who most need them,'' it said.
 The other manifesto was signed by two schools superintendents, Beverly L. Hall of Atlanta and Rudy Crew of Miami-Dade County, and Thomas W. Payzant, the former superintendent in Boston, as well as the civil rights leader Julian Bond and former Attorney General Janet Reno, among others. 
 It criticized the No Child Left Behind law, Mr. Bush's signature domestic initiative, as narrowing instruction in some schools to little more than reading and math, and called for a ''broader, bolder approach'' that would increase investment in health and other services in poor communities and rely less exclusively on schools to solve the nation's social problems.
 ''Some schools have demonstrated unusual effectiveness,'' said the statement, published on Tuesday in paid space in The New York Times and The Washington Post. ''But even they cannot, by themselves, close the entire gap between students from different backgrounds.''
 ''Reducing social and economic disadvantages can also improve achievement,'' it said.
 Neither document mentioned the presidential campaign, but signers of both said the documents were being made public now in hopes of generating more debate about education policies in the general election campaign than what had occurred during the primaries.
 ''With the Democratic primary ending and the general campaign starting, there's the sense that now is the time to lay out different visions of what our education policy should be,'' said Andrew Rotherham, a Democrat who is co-founder of Education Sector, a research group in Washington, and who co-signed the statement of principles issued by Mr. Klein and Mr. Sharpton. ''Presidential campaigns are in many ways national conversations, so now is the time to lay out a new agenda.''
 An effort last year to reauthorize the federal law, which Congress passed in Mr. Bush's first year with bipartisan majorities, fell apart. Congress is unlikely to try again to rewrite the legislation, the most important statement of federal policy toward public schools, until well after a new president takes office.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (54%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL SHARPTON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



297 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Small-Business Agency's Problems Linger as Leader Moves On to HUD

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Steven C. Preston's signature accomplishment as head of the Small Business Administration was overhauling the agency's disaster loan assistance program, a program that was foundering under the crush of Hurricane Katrina claims when he took over nearly two years ago. 
 Mr. Preston has now moved on. He started this week as secretary of Housing and Urban Development. While he streamlined the way the S.B.A. worked, he left behind various problems that critics and small-business groups say are particularly troublesome in a weakened economy. They cite the need for greater availability of loans in particular. 
 And because his departure comes in the waning months of the Bush administration, it is unlikely that a permanent leader for the S.B.A., with a mandate to make major changes, will arrive before next year. 
 ''While they focused on disaster assistance, there has been criticism that the agency has ignored small-business concerns,'' said Karen A. Kerrigan, president and chief executive of the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council, which represents 70,000 small businesses. 
 The agency's difficulties in getting hurricane assistance to small businesses and homeowners showed how years of cuts by the Bush administration had taken a toll. The S.B.A.'s budget this year, $482 million, was less than half its budget in 2001.
 Critics say the S.B.A. needs to broaden access to federally guaranteed loans, which carry lower interest rates and lower fees than their commercial counterparts, so that they are more attainable for entrepreneurs and small-enterprise owners.
 Minority business owners also complain the agency is not doing enough to help them find financing and contracts. Female entrepreneurs are angry that the S.B.A. has not done more to help deliver a higher percentage of contracts, even though the agency was ordered to do so by Congress eight years ago.
 While Mr. Preston faced no opposition at his confirmation hearing for the job at HUD, Representative Nydia M. Velazquez, Democrat of New York and head of the House Small Business Committee, gave his stewardship of the S.B.A. an incomplete. ''Unfortunately, he was not at the agency long enough to have a lasting effect,'' she said. 
 Jovita Carranza, now the acting administrator and a former executive of United Parcel Service, is likely to run the agency until a new administration arrives. 
 Even with Mr. Preston's efforts to speed up disaster assistance, Congress recently pushed ahead with provisions, part of the farm bill, that amounted to its own overhaul of the S.B.A. disaster loan program.
 The legislation's provisions, said Senator John F. Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, would ''cut through red tape, increase resources, bring private lenders into the response and help bridge that gap while disaster victims begin the process of building their lives.''
 And last week, the Senate voted to add $101 million to the agency's budget. The move was also supported by Senator Kerry's Republican counterpart on the committee, Olympia J. Snowe of Maine. Both senators argue that the agency needs to step up its efforts since less capital is available elsewhere in the current sluggish economy.
 ''There is a contraction in the lending program, which I think is antithetical to what the S.B.A. is supposed to be doing,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''This is a moment where the credit crunch requires the S.B.A. to fill the gap.'' 
 The number and amount of federal loans under the main loan guarantee program, called 7 (a), has fallen to 50,546 through the end of May this year, from 63,945 loan approvals through the end of May 2007. The loan amounts dropped as a well, to $8.24 billion from almost $9 billion.
 ''Our overall lending volume is down 8 percent,'' Mr. Preston said in an interview last week. ''And the dollar volume from the riskiest lenders is down 34 percent because they have pulled back the most.''
 The agency, he said, has adopted procedures for greater automation, which should streamline lending and make it more attractive for banks to handle S.B.A. loans. 
 But small-business owners like Frances Richards, who heads Arlean & Company, a construction program management firm in Las Vegas, say they do not see any relief. Her efforts to tap into the area's commercial expansion have been thwarted by difficulties in getting a $25,000 loan to hire the employees necessary to qualify for a subcontract.
 ''I'm in a Catch-22 because I'm not going to get a contract unless I have the capacity to handle it,'' Ms. Richards said. ''But that requires more money than I can get from my credit cards.''
 The S.B.A. loan program is also contentious because of accusations of inadequate oversight of lending institutions. The agency's inspector general found recently that flawed oversight had resulted in a $329 million loss in recent years. Mr. Kerry and Ms. Snowe this month asked the Government Accountability Office to investigate the S.B.A.'s system for monitoring lender portfolios and identifying risky lenders.
 ''The whole process of overseeing lenders is under review,'' Mr. Preston said. ''We'll be putting clear rules in place to determine what we should do for lenders,'' although he said he would not be around to see it through.
 The most vociferous criticism has been about the S.B.A.'s handling of government contracts, about $400 billion yearly -- 23 percent of that is supposed to be for small businesses. The American Small Business League, which sued and won release of S.B.A. data, maintains that large corporations are receiving contracts meant for small business. 
 Last year, the agency changed its rule to require businesses to certify their size every five years to prevent large corporations from winning contracts. 
 Female business owners are pursuing legal action to force agency compliance with Congress's directive, passed in 2000, that they receive 5 percent of federal contracts. This year, the agency issued a regulation that included only four industries, infuriating female business groups. 
 If anything, minority small businesses are even more irate at the S.B.A., though the agency this year started an initiative aimed at helping inner-city enterprises. For minority businesses, ''the S.B.A. isn't even in the picture,'' complained Harry C. Alford, president and chief executive of the National Black Chamber of Commerce. ''We are not looking for giveaways, but in contracts and loans we are looking for them to loosen rules and make them more accessible.
 ''So right now, we're not counting on the S.B.A.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush, left, and others last Friday as Steven Preston spoke at his swearing-in ceremony as the secretary of HUD.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN VUCCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); WOMEN (70%); LEGISLATION (67%); CITIES (56%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (51%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (51%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



298 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 508 words

 BODY:
COMMODITY PRICES SURGE Corn futures rose above $7 a bushel for the first time, hitting a record after heavy rains in the Midwest prompted the Department of Agriculture to lower its 2008 output estimate. 
 Seeking to reduce speculation, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman said he would propose that large institutional investors be banned from the nation's commodity markets. [C4.]
 OBAMA ADVISER Presidential candidate Barack Obama picked Jason Furman, a well-known representative of Bill Clinton's economic policies, to serve as his economic policy director. [C1.]
 RATINGS SUCCESS HGTV and TLC, the two cable channels that air the most so-called property programming, continue to draw viewers seeking advice on buying and selling decisions. [C1.]
 BREWER GETS A SUITOR The Anheuser-Busch Companies, the nation's biggest brewery, said that it had received a $46 billion buyout offer from InBev, a Belgian brewer. [C1.]
 ANOTHER KNOCKOFF Sprint will offer the new Samsung Instinct, a blatant iPhone wannabe. But its software structure is simple and it has its own personality. State of the Art: David Pogue. [C1.]
 CSX FIGHT CONTINUES A federal judge refused to bar two hedge funds seeking to win a proxy fight at the CSX Corporation from voting their shares at the company's annual meeting. [C1.]
 OIL VENTURE TALKS The chief executive of BP said that the oil company remained in discussions with its partners in the Russian joint venture TNK-BP. [C2.]
 CHANGES SOUGHT The Securities and Exchange Commission proposed new rules to make the credit rating industry more open, including a plan to require ratings of complex securities. [C2.]
 EUROPE'S AIRLINE EDGE Benefiting from a relatively strong euro and fuel-efficient planes, European airlines appear to be better placed to ride out economic woes than their American rivals. [C3.]
 UNRESOLVED ISSUES The head of the Small Business Administration has moved on, and it is unlikely that a permanent leader, with a mandate to make changes, will arrive before next year. [C3.]
 NEW LEADERS Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia said its chief executive, Susan Lyne, resigned and would be replaced by Wenda Harris Millard and Robin Marino as co-chief executives. [C3.]
 SLUGGISH ECONOMY The Federal Reserve said that economic activity was weaker in most regions of the country in May, as Americans were pinched by rising energy and food prices. [C4.]
 BRANDING ENTERTAINMENT The efforts of marketers to develop programs centered on specific products are a throwback trend called branded entertainment. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C5.]
 DEVELOPING EAGER MINDS What's the right approach for parents faced with choosing age-appropriate technology for their children? Basics. [C6.]
 STOCKS FALL Oil prices surged, sending stocks tumbling as investors worried that inflation would further pinch consumers and lead central banks to raise interest rates. [C7.]
 SMALL-BUSINESS UPDATE Six months after establishing business goals, three entrepreneurs find that running a start-up can lead to surprising twists. [C10.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORN MARKETS (90%); BREWERIES (90%); FUTURES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (88%); FUEL MARKETS (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); WEATHER (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); CABLE TELEVISION (75%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (75%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); SMARTPHONES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); AIRLINES (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); JOINT VENTURES (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); BRANDING (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (83%); CSX CORP (82%); HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (57%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (56%); TNK-BP LTD (54%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (82%); BUD (NYSE) (56%); ABI (BRU) (56%); MSO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (83%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (83%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (82%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (82%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%); BILL CLINTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



299 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
VIDEO: IN THE GARDEN OF THE WEALTHY
 Matt Gross tests his ability to save money and unearth the unusual in the playground of the super-rich. nytimes.com/travel 
 VIDEO: TALKING WITH OBAMA
 John Harwood of The New York Times and CNBC talks to Senator Barack Obama about gas prices, taxes, housing and other economic issues.
 nytimes.com/campaign
 Rings Ask About the Olympics
 David Wallechinsky, the co-author of ''The Complete Book of the Olympics,'' is taking questions from readers. 
 nytimes.com/rings
 City Room Off the Hot Seat
 Now that the temperature is a little cooler, New Yorkers offer suggestions for how to enjoy the more bearable weather.
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 Paper Cuts Public Intellectual
 Daniel W. Drezner, a political economist, disputes the notion that there has been a decline in the quality of American intellectual life.
 nytimes.com/papercuts
 Dot Earth 
 Arctic Predictions
 Eleven independent research teams are projecting an Arctic sea ice retreat at least as extraordinary as last year's.
 nytimes.com/dotearth
 Shifting Careers
 Attention Must Be Paid
 The author Maggie Jackson writes a guest post about the importance of focus in an era of constant distraction.
 nytimes.com/shiftingcareers
 The Lede Bush's Regret on Iraq
 In Europe, the president said that he regretted his cowboy tone of yore, but not the war that has made him deeply unpopular.
 nytimes.com/thelede
 Tech Talk 
 New iPhone Moves
 Apple's latest moves and what the new iPhone is really about; the competition in the smartphone market, and an explanation of 3G wireless networking.
 nytimes.com/technology
 Well Sleep Linked to Memory
 The part of the brain that stores memory appears to shrink in people with sleep apnea.
 nytimes.com/well
 Artsbeat Bonnaroo
 Jon Pareles and David Carr report from the pop music festival in Manchester, Tenn.
 nytimes.com/artsbeat
 OPINION
 CAMPAIGN STOPS
 Benign Neglect Francis Wilkinson, a new contributor to the blog, argues that President Bush's approach to race helped make Barack Obama's success possible. nytimes.com/campaignstops

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT GROSS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (86%); SMARTPHONES (86%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); WRITERS (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); 3G WIRELESS (64%); FESTIVALS (64%); SLEEP DISORDERS (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (57%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (50%); POP & ROCK (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (82%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARCTIC OCEAN (79%) ARCTIC (87%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



300 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Brewer Bids $46 Billion For Busch

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
One of the nation's most prominent family-run companies, Anheuser-Busch, formally became the target of a $46.4 billion unsolicited takeover offer from InBev of Belgium on Wednesday. 
 A deal, if reached, would combine Anheuser-Busch's best-selling Budweiser and Bud Light brands with InBev's Stella Artois, Beck's and Bass and would create the world's largest brewer, with distribution channels around the globe.
 InBev's bid is likely to set off a bitter battle for control of Anheuser-Busch, based in St. Louis, which has been led by the Anheuser and Busch families for 148 years. The company, led by a scion of the Busch family, August A. Busch IV, has signaled that it will fight a takeover. In recent weeks, in anticipation of InBev's bid, privately called Project Aluminum, Anheuser-Busch has hired an army of bankers, lawyers and other advisers to help it mount a defense. 
 The battle may stir a national debate filled with patriotic fervor over a company ingrained in the American consciousness. Anheuser-Busch spends more money than any other advertiser during the Super Bowl each year; last year alone, it spent $23.9 million, according to TNS, a market research company. 
 The bid could also put Warren E. Buffett, Anheuser-Busch's second-largest shareholder after August A. Busch III, a former Anheuser-Busch chairman and chief executive, in the middle of a struggle.
 Gov. Matthew R. Blunt of Missouri said in a statement Wednesday that he opposed any sale. ''Today's offer to purchase the company is deeply troubling to me,'' he said, adding that he was directing the state's department of economic development to explore ways to keep Anheuser-Busch in St. Louis.
 Two InBev directors approached Mr. Busch about a deal during a secret meeting in Tampa, Fla., on June 2.
 The meeting, which people who were briefed on it described as ''polite and short,'' was a prelude to InBev's formal offer, made in a letter to Mr. Busch and Anheuser-Busch's board. InBev said it hoped to reach a friendly deal and, in that spirit, said that it hoped to ''keep the contents of this letter private.'' Within hours, however, word had spread across Wall Street, and Anheuser-Busch chose to make the bid public.
 For weeks, hedge funds and arbitrageurs have been buying up shares of Anheuser-Busch, pushing its stock up more than 11 percent in the last two weeks.
 Shares of Anheuser-Busch closed on Wednesday at $58.35, but rose as much as 10 percent in after-hours trading.
 In a brief statement, Anheuser-Busch said its board would review the proposal and make a decision ''in due course.'' 
 Consolidation has been the watchword in the beer industry for years, as breweries have sought economies of scale. The world's two largest brewers are the products of trans-Atlantic deals struck over the past decade: SABMiller, from South African Breweries' 2002 purchase of Miller Brewing, and InBev, from the 2004 union of Belgium's InterBrew and Brazil's AmBev.
 The rise in the prices of grain and other ingredients has added extra impetus to merger efforts. 
 But domestic brewers have struggled in recent years as their customers drift toward wine and spirits, as well as craft beers and imports. That has tempted the international brewers. SABMiller and Molson Coors will combine their operations in the United States, forming a formidable rival to Anheuser-Busch.
 One of Anheuser-Busch's potential countermoves would involve buying the 50 percent of Mexico's Grupo Modelo that it does not already own. That would raise Anheuser-Busch's price tag, potentially deterring a suitor. 
 InBev has been planning its bid for Anheuser-Busch for months, according to people briefed on the matter. Despite a relatively barren environment for deal financing, the Belgian company has already lined up lender commitments from eight international banks, including JPMorgan Chase, Banco Santander of Spain and Deutsche Bank of Germany.
 In his letter to Mr. Busch, InBev's chief executive, Carlos Brito, took pains to emphasize that he would make several concessions to reach a friendly deal. He proposed keeping St. Louis as the new company's headquarters, retaining the Anheuser-Busch name in some way and making Budweiser its flagship brand. 
 ''We have the highest respect for Anheuser-Busch, its employees and its leadership, who have built the leading brewer in the U.S. and grown the iconic Budweiser brand,'' Mr. Brito said in a statement.
 A deal would probably remove Anheuser-Busch from the hands of the Anheuser and Busch families. Mr. Busch, 43, is the fifth generation of the Busch family to run the company.
 Mr. Busch is likely to feel great pressure to strike a deal. Anheuser-Busch's stock has been stagnant for years, as the company sought to find new avenues for growth. 
 InBev's interest has even created a divide within the Busch family. Adolphus A. Busch IV, an uncle to Mr. Busch, has said that any decision about the company should be based on shareholder value, not nostalgia.
 Anheuser-Busch lacks some common defenses against takeover offers. Its board is no longer staggered, meaning all its directors are up for re-election in any given year. And the Busch family does not control the company through supervoting shares, as is the case with some other family businesses that are publicly held.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); FAMILY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (92%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (90%)

TICKER: BUD (NYSE) (90%); ABI (BRU) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (92%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (92%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (90%)

PERSON: AUGUST BUSCH IV (79%); MATT BLUNT (54%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (70%) MISSOURI, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



301 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2654 words

HEADLINE: Legacy-Minded Bush Loyalist Fights Foes of 'No Child' Law

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: NEWPORT, Ky. 

 BODY:
Margaret Spellings is not running for office -- at least, not yet. But in the waning days of the Bush presidency, she is running one last campaign.
 On a cold and soggy morning in March, Ms. Spellings, the relentlessly cheery and sometimes sassy United States secretary of education, turned up here, at a little brick elementary school across the Ohio River from Cincinnati. She had been on the road for months, promoting President Bush's beleaguered education initiative, No Child Left Behind, delivering one sales pitch after another.
 ''I'm pretty sure that the new president, whoever it is, will not show up and work on George Bush's domestic achievement on Day 1,'' she told a group of civic leaders and educators, promising to do ''everything in my power'' to improve the law before the White House changes hands.
 For Ms. Spellings, a longtime and exceedingly loyal member of the Bush inner circle, it was a startling, if tacit, admission that the president's education legacy is in danger. No Child Left Behind -- the signature domestic achievement, beyond tax cuts, of the entire Bush presidency -- has changed the lives of millions of American students, parents, teachers and school administrators. Yet its future is in grave doubt. 
 Adopted by Congress on a wave of bipartisan unity that followed the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the law imposed unprecedented testing requirements and tough expectations on the nation's nearly 99,000 public schools. But despite rising test scores, there is no hard-and-fast evidence, most experts say, that it is actually improving student achievement. 
 Today, roughly 11 percent of schools do not meet the law's standards -- a figure that is expected to climb sharply as more schools struggle to meet the demand that all students be proficient in reading and math by 2014. The bill is so deeply unpopular that Representative George Miller, the California Democrat who was its chief sponsor, often calls No Child Left Behind ''the most negative brand in the country.'' 
 The White House had hoped Congress would revisit the bill this year, but on Capitol Hill, prospects for updating the legislation are virtually dead. On the presidential campaign trail, the presumptive Democratic nominee, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, vows to overhaul it. The presumptive Republican nominee, Senator John McCain of Arizona, supports the law, though Ms. Spellings knows his priorities are elsewhere.
 ''It's not his passion,'' she said. ''It's George Bush's passion.''
 And so, the education secretary has hit the road. She has visited more than 20 states this year, testifying in capitals from Tallahassee to Topeka, trying to gin up support for the measure while announcing administrative changes intended to make it more palatable -- an insurance policy, of sorts, to help it withstand an assault after Mr. Bush leaves office.
 She carts her own roller bag, changing into blue jeans in airline frequent-flyer lounges, so as not to rumple her business suits. She has slogged through inclement weather, flight delays and bad airport food.
 ''This is my child, my baby,'' she said over dinner in Maysville, Ky., referring to the No Child law.
 And with seven months left to go, she is not prepared to let it slip away.
 A Triumph
 The story of how No Child Left Behind morphed from a bipartisan legislative triumph into a laugh line on the Democratic campaign trail is, in part, the larger story of the Bush domestic policy agenda, of a Texas governor who came to Washington vowing to be ''the education president'' and wound up consumed with fighting terrorism and two wars.
 But it is also the story of ''little old Margaret Spellings,'' as she sometimes calls herself, and her personal journey with Mr. Bush.
 They met in the early 1990s -- a mutual friend, the political strategist Karl Rove, introduced them -- when Mr. Bush was toying with running for governor and she was still Margaret LaMontagne, the chief lobbyist for the Texas Association of School Boards. She helped run the campaign, became a top aide in Austin and, after a divorce, followed Mr. Bush to Washington, a single mother raising two daughters with a big new title: chief of domestic policy.
 Today, Secretary Spellings (she married Robert Spellings, an Austin lawyer, in August 2001, and became education secretary in January 2005) is one of a handful of the so-called original Texans still working for Mr. Bush. At 50, she is viewed as a potential candidate for Texas governor and is also one of several determined women, among them Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who count Mr. Bush as a boss and a friend. 
 ''She and Bush have a special relationship, a camaraderie,'' Mr. Spellings said of his wife, adding, ''She trusts him, and she loves him.''
 Perhaps more than any other adviser, Ms. Spellings helped shape the Bush education philosophy: a strict emphasis on standards and accountability, intended to close the ''achievement gap'' between black and white, rich and poor. While other Republicans talked of dismantling the federal Department of Education, Mr. Bush cast education as a civil rights issue, challenging ''the soft bigotry of low expectations.'' 
 These were the foundations of No Child Left Behind. The law's cornerstone is its requirement that states set targets and issue detailed reports on student performance. Schools must improve the performance of subgroups, including minority, low-income and disabled students. Schools that repeatedly fail to report progress are deemed ''in need of improvement,'' the law's term for failing. Students may transfer out of failing schools, and the schools risk being shut down.
 On a wall in a hallway outside her office in Washington -- a spacious affair with huge glass windows overlooking the Capitol and paintings on loan from the Smithsonian -- Ms. Spellings keeps framed mementos of the passage of the bill: The Senate vote roster, 87 to 10; a congratulatory note from Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, a key Republican sponsor; a schedule from Mr. Bush's bill-signing tour, a bipartisan road show featuring Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat.
 Ms. Spellings was still so new to Washington, so green, that she did not realize how extraordinary it all was -- or how quickly the relationship between the Bush White House and Congress would sour.
 ''We were used to doing business like that in Texas,'' she said. ''We just thought that's how it was done.''
 The Criticism
 The backlash was swift.
 States that did not use annual tests to assess progress scrambled to meet the law's requirement for testing students in third through eighth grades every year. Even states that did rely on testing, like Kentucky, protested what officials saw as the heavy hand of the federal government. 
 Kentucky already had what its education commissioner, Jon Draud, calls a ''high-stakes accountability program.'' But meshing the two ''was like putting a slightly round peg into a slightly square hole,'' said Lisa Gross, a spokeswoman for Mr. Draud's agency.
 Kentucky assessed student achievement every two years; No Child demanded it every year. Kentucky tested seven subject areas; the federal law required just reading and math. Kentucky marked progress based on a school's growth; under No Child Left Behind, a school either passed or failed.
 So schools could pass by Kentucky's standards, but fail by Washington's. The state pushed back, to no avail. ''We said, 'What you're proposing is very similar to what Kentucky is already doing, and we have found that it is a much stronger, more reliable system if you do two years' worth of data as an average, and give schools a little more flexibility,' '' Ms. Gross said. ''They say, 'Well, that's not how we want to do it.' ''
 Back in Washington, the Education Department, under Secretary Rod Paige, struggled to issue the regulations states needed to put the law into effect, said Gene Hickok, a former deputy secretary. Mr. Hickok remembers ''an ongoing sense of tension'' between Mr. Paige and Ms. Spellings, who from her perch at the White House pushed for faster action. Mr. Hickok said both he and Ms. Spellings urged a firm stand against states seeking exemptions -- a rigid approach that critics say helped undermine support for the law.
 To make matters worse, Mr. Hickok said, the department had no public relations strategy to counter the burgeoning opposition. (The strategy it ultimately adopted -- secretly paying Armstrong Williams, a conservative commentator, to promote the bill -- backfired badly. The Government Accountability Office concluded it violated federal law.)
 On Capitol Hill, Mr. Boehner was up in arms.
 ''There was just silence coming out of the department, the regulations were slow in coming and there wasn't as much discussion with the states as there should have been,'' he said, calling the department's efforts ''a fiasco.''
 As the law identified schools in trouble, Democrats like Mr. Kennedy began accusing Mr. Bush of reneging on a promise of more federal money to help struggling schools right themselves. ''We had reform,'' the senator said. ''What we needed were resources.'' 
 In 2003, the National Education Association, one of the nation's two biggest teachers' unions, surveyed its members, laying the groundwork for a major message campaign that would denounce No Child Left Behind as ''a one-size-fits-all approach to learning.'' The union's president, Reg Weaver, said, ''We needed to galvanize our members as well as the public around a law that was not doing what it was intended to do.'' 
 By the time Mr. Bush replaced the much-criticized Mr. Paige with Ms. Spellings in 2005, thousands of schools were being declared failing, and states were in open rebellion. Utah threatened to opt out. Connecticut eventually sued. 
 ''No Child Left Behind, as implemented, has not passed the common sense or the fairness test,'' said Joe Nathan, director of the Center for School Change at the University of Minnesota. ''It did not make sense to citizens or legislators to say that this school is going to have to be closed or reorganized because kids who may have been disabled are not achieving standards.''
 It was against such opposition that Ms. Spellings arrived at the Fourth Street Elementary School, the little brick building in Newport, on that soggy March day. 
 The school is a showcase, a model of a thriving urban school. Roughly 85 percent of pupils at Fourth Street received free or reduced meals -- a barometer of economic disadvantage that can indicate poor performance. But through aggressive efforts to hire math and reading specialists, Fourth Street is making the grade under No Child Left Behind.
 On the day Ms. Spellings visited, a 28-year veteran math teacher named Lynn Roberts was teaching first-graders about money -- not an easy task when students rarely see money at home.
 ''I want you to see if you can make 28 cents,'' Ms. Roberts announced brightly, as little hands began sifting through piles of coins. 
 A little boy named Tahj shot his arm up in the air. ''Two nickels, two dimes and three pennies,'' Tahj declared, for a total of 33 cents. The teacher gently corrected him; Ms. Spellings left impressed. 
 ''These are not people who are sitting around whining about No Child Left Behind,'' Ms. Spellings said. ''These are people who are hard at work.''
 In fact, Ms. Roberts and other Fourth Street teachers have serious concerns about No Child Left Behind. ''My concern is that there is such pressure on assessment,'' Ms. Roberts said in a later interview, ''that oftentimes people are working hard to pass the test, and not to gain real understanding.'' 
 Ms. Spellings often says the bill requires just one test a year, and here in Kentucky, the same test is used for both state and federal assessments. But Doug Alpiger, the Fourth Street principal, said tests beget more tests, because school districts want proof their students are on track.
 At Fourth Street Elementary, the signs are everywhere. Classroom doors are posted with pie charts and bar graphs showing test results, though not by name. Hallways are lined with hand-made posters exhorting students to ''Try your best!'' on standardized tests.
 ''Assessments are very important, and I said that to the secretary,'' Mr. Alpiger said. ''It's important for us to use data to drive our instruction. But the emphasis appears to be so much on assessment that, I'm telling you, at times during the year, our kids are being formally assessed for a month straight.'' 
 Repair Efforts
 As she travels the country, Ms. Spellings talks up efforts to use her executive powers to address concerns like Mr. Alpiger's. For instance, she has begun a pilot program allowing certain states to measure progress using a ''growth model,'' a technique similar to the one that Kentucky was forced to abandon.
 As to whether the law has truly narrowed the achievement gap, the secretary promotes studies showing math and reading scores improving. ''I like to say we are pleased, but not satisfied,'' Ms. Spellings said here in Newport.
 But the Center on Education Policy, a research organization in Washington, concluded in a 2007 study that it is ''very difficult, if not impossible'' to draw a cause-and-effect relationship, in part because scores were going up before the bill was passed. The center's director, Jack Jennings, says Ms. Spellings' initiatives are too narrowly written to make real change, and faults her spending more time being ''a political operative'' than listening to teachers.
 ''All these complaints aren't silly,'' Mr. Jennings said. ''There's substance to them.'' 
 On Capitol Hill, Mr. Miller complains that he proposed similar fixes, but was rebuffed by the White House. ''They sabotaged the reauthorization,'' he said, ''and now she's running around trying to salvage a legacy that can't be salvaged.''
 Yet others, like Gene Wilhoit, a former Kentucky education commissioner who now runs the Council of Chief State School Officers, praise Ms. Spellings for trying to repair relations with states. 
 ''My question,'' Mr. Wilhoit says, ''is: 'Is it too late?' ''
 For Ms. Spellings, it may not be; her travels have raised her profile, building a network of connections that could prove useful if she runs for public office. She says she views the churning around No Child Left Behind as ''a badge of honor,'' the price Mr. Bush had to pay for making what she calls ''powerful and profound'' reform. 
 Both supporters and detractors of No Child Left Behind agree that when the history of the Bush administration is written, the president will have succeeded, at least, in changing the American conversation about education. 
 As Mr. Wilhoit said, accountability ''is now anchored into the process.'' 
 Yet many say Mr. Bush's promise to be ''the education president'' has gone unfulfilled.
 To Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Bush squandered an opportunity to have ''a legacy as great as Medicare.'' Mr. Weaver, the union official, gives Mr. Bush a D. Jim Hunt, the former Democratic governor of North Carolina, who is close to Ms. Spellings and backs the law, blames the president for the erosion in support.
 ''He didn't stick with it,'' Mr. Hunt said. Ms. Spellings, upon hearing this, drewin a deep breath.
 She was sitting in her Washington office, the one with the Smithsonian paintings, drinking coffee from a porcelain cup, a long way from Texas. She paused a moment and then, in her own loyal way, effectively conceded Mr. Hunt's point.
 ''Well, you know, obviously, absent 9/11 and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, I think the whole domestic agenda would have been different,'' she said. ''He ended up being a wartime president and as such has devoted -- appropriately so -- time and energy to those issues. But with respect to how education fares compared with other domestic priorities, I think we've done well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Margaret Spellings, the secretary of education, first met President Bush in the 1990s when she was a lobbyist and he was considering a run for governor of Texas. They were introduced by Karl Rove, and she went on to help run Mr. Bush's Texas campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); TESTIMONY (70%); TAX LAW (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TERRORISM (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); MARGARET SPELLINGS (90%); KARL ROVE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



302 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Networks Firm Up Convention Lineups

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
Those political aficionados wondering whether Senator Barack Obama looks better from the right or left, take note: in August visitors to the official Web site of the Democratic National Convention will be able to choose from a menu of camera angles as they tune in live, high-definition video streamed from the party gathering in Denver.
 Other viewers who prefer to leave the direction and analysis of their convention coverage to the broadcast and cable networks will have plenty of options too. In the days since Mr. Obama solidified his standing as the presumptive Democratic nominee, television news executives have begun to set their plans for covering the four-day Democratic convention, which begins on Aug. 25, and its Republican counterpart, which opens in St. Paul on Sept. 1, Labor Day. 
 ABC, CBS and NBC all intend to show at least three hours of live, prime-time coverage of both conventions, which is about what the networks did four years ago, though this year they are expected to broadcast in high-definition. 
 The cable news channels expect to offer many more hours than that, perhaps none more so than MSNBC, which is seeking to swamp the efforts of its principal competitors, CNN and Fox News, by showing 20 hours of live convention programming each of the four days that the conventions are in session. To put that figure in perspective, consider that much of the official party business is conducted over the course of about four hours a night. MSNBC's most direct competition may be PBS, which is planning to provide live, complete, prime-time coverage of both conventions -- the only broadcast network to do so.
 For MSNBC, which has scheduled its marathon coverage from 6 a.m. to 2 a.m. Eastern time, the challenge of having enough for Keith Olbermann, Chris Matthews and Joe Scarborough, among others, to discuss during all those hours would seem to be especially formidable. As television programs, conventions long ago made the transition from smoke-filled gatherings with more suspense than a ''C.S.I.'' episode to gleaming, ready-made infomercials where the audience knows the ending from the beginning.
 (Among those to be featured on MSNBC is John Harwood, a CNBC correspondent who also reports for The New York Times, which pools some political newsgathering efforts with NBC.)
 But in interviews this week broadcast and cable executives said that there were many reasons to believe that this year's gatherings would be the most compelling in decades. They cited the unexpectedly protracted nature of the Democratic and Republican primary seasons this year, as well as back stories like Mr. Obama's standing as the first black presidential nominee of a major American political party; the age of the presumed Republican nominee, Senator John McCain, 72; the looming specter of the Iraq war and the sputtering economy; and the lingering question of how Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton will carry themselves.
 ''This is great stuff,'' said Phil Alongi, executive producer of political and other special programming for NBC News. ''On the Democratic side, I'm dying to see how they handle the party unity. I'm dying to see how they handle the Clintons. On the Republican side, how are they going to handle Bush and Cheney -- there's a lot there.''
 Mr. Alongi will oversee convention coverage on both NBC and MSNBC, though each will have a different mission. On NBC Mr. Alongi expects to devote an hour each on the evenings of Wednesday, Aug. 27, and Thursday, Aug. 28, for the Democratic convention, as well as on the following Wednesday and Thursday for the Republicans, to live coverage and analysis of the acceptance speeches of the vice presidential and presidential nominees. Leading that coverage will be Brian Williams, the anchor of ''NBC Nightly News,'' with analysis from Tim Russert, the host of ''Meet the Press,'' among others.
 On Monday or Tuesday of each week NBC also expects to put on at least one more hour of live programming, to be determined as the convention schedule becomes more clear. 
 Mr. Alongi said he had also been assured by his bosses, including Jeff Zucker, the chief executive of NBC Universal, that the network will consider breaking into its regular programming for more live coverage if events warrant it.During each of those two weeks, the ''Nightly News'' and the ''Today'' show will originate in the convention cities -- no mean trick, since both programs will have broadcast at least partly during the previous two weeks from Beijing, where NBC will be covering the Summer Olympics.
 ABC has committed to at least four hours of prime-time coverage of each convention, to be led by Charles Gibson, anchor of ''World News.'' He will be joined by George Stephanopoulos, the host of ''This Week,'' as well as a team of political reporters, said Marc Burstein, executive producer of special events for ABC News.
 While ''Good Morning America'' will also originate from each host city, Mr. Burstein said he did not yet know which of the show's hosts would be dispatched where. (Diane Sawyer, co-anchor of ''Good Morning America,'' shared top billing with Mr. Gibson for the network's prime-time coverage of the primary season's ''Super Tuesday'' on Feb. 5.)
 ABC does not have a basic cable channel, but it does have ABC News Now, a digital cable channel started at the urging of Peter Jennings during the last conventions. It intends to provide ''gavel to gavel'' coverage of the convention sessions, with some network correspondents doing double duty -- at least partly as a way to save money in an economically challenging year for all the news divisions.
 A CBS spokeswoman said the network planned to broadcast about three hours of live, prime-time coverage from each convention, with Katie Couric leading a crew that would include Jeff Greenfield and Bob Schieffer. Ms. Couric's ''CBS Evening News,'' along with ''The Early Show'' and ''Face the Nation'' will also have a base in the convention cities.
 On PBS, Jim Lehrer of ''The News Hour'' will host coverage from sky boxes towering above both convention halls. He will be assisted by a team of correspondents that will include Gwen Ifill, Ray Suarez, Judy Woodruff and Margaret Warner, as well as two analysts, Mark Shields and David Brooks, a columnist for The New York Times.
 A Fox News spokeswoman, Dana Klinghoffer, refused to discuss the channel's plans.
 CNN, which saw its ratings surge on nights like Super Tuesday, has yet to resolve how much of the conventions it will present, said David Bohrman, who directs the coverage in his capacity as Washington bureau chief. It has also not decided which of its high-profile hosts -- including Larry King, Anderson Cooper, Wolf Blitzer and Campbell Brown -- will travel to the convention cities to anchor the channel's coverage from a desk on the convention floor, Mr. Borhman said.
 While he said he wanted to see a more detailed convention schedule before committing resources, he appeared confident CNN would not devote as many hours to the task as MSNBC.
 ''We'll find a nice mix in our regular daytime programming, get a sense of what else is happening in the world, and be in the conventions when they're really in session,'' he said. ''The conventions will clearly be the centerpiece of the week. But the rest of the world continues.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); NEWS REPORTING (71%); INFOMERCIALS (70%); US LABOR DAY (69%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



303 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Union Critical of Obama's Top Economics Aide

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Acting quickly after securing his party's presidential nomination, Barack Obama picked a well-known representative of Bill Clinton's economic policies as his economic policy director and signaled this week that the major players from the Clinton economics team were now in his camp -- starting with Robert E. Rubin.
 Senator Obama, Democrat of Illinois, hired Jason Furman, a Harvard-trained economist closely associated with Mr. Rubin, a Wall Street insider who served as President Clinton's Treasury secretary. Labor union leaders criticized the move, and said that ''Rubinomics'' focused too much on corporate America and not enough on workers. 
 ''For years we've expressed strong concerns about corporate influence on the Democratic Party,'' John J. Sweeney, president of the AFL-CIO, said Wednesday in a statement implicitly critical of the symbolism of the appointment, no matter Mr. Furman's economic skills. 
 The Obama camp has cast Mr. Furman, 37, as an experienced operator in Democratic election campaigns, whose task is to tap the expertise of economists representing a broad spectrum of views. ''My own views, such as they are, are irrelevant,'' Mr. Furman said. 
 The Democratic Party often struggles to balance the conflicting demands of corporations and labor, and Mr. Furman's appointment rang some alarm bells that Mr. Obama might be tilting toward the corporate side -- a tilt that Mr. Rubin says does not exist. He argued in an interview on Wednesday that his views were essentially in line with Mr. Obama's already stated policies.
 ''I totally support Obama,'' Mr. Rubin said, acknowledging his long allegiance to Hillary Rodham Clinton. ''I was not going to leave Hillary until she pulled out,'' he said, adding: ''I think Barack Obama is very well equipped to provide the presidential leadership that the country very badly needs in a rapidly changing world.''
 Mr. Furman, who served as an adviser in John Kerry's 2004 campaign for president, came to his new post suddenly on Monday, moving hastily to Chicago, where Mr. Obama has his headquarters. Until Friday, he was director of the Hamilton Project, a policy research operation founded by Mr. Rubin, who is now chairman of the executive committee at Citigroup. Mr. Rubin provides financing for the project, along with other wealthy Democrats. 
 Of particular concern to labor is the Hamilton approach to trade. While labor wants restrictions that would preserve jobs, the Rubin camp wants free trade that might cost jobs but would be offset by a broader safety net channeling more income support and job training to the job losers. Mr. Obama talks of ''fair'' trade agreements that include labor and environmental standards, a position that falls short of what Mr. Sweeney has in mind. 
 In his statement criticizing Mr. Furman's appointment, Mr. Sweeney said, ''The fact that our country's economic policies have become so dominated by the Wall Street agenda -- and that it is causing working families real pain -- is a top issue we will be raising with Senator Obama.'' 
 The Rubin camp and the group loosely led by union leaders also differ on which should take precedence: balancing the budget or public investment. The Rubin camp gives preference to budget balancing, but Mr. Rubin says the choice is no longer as stark as it was when Bill Clinton came to office in 1993. Then, the deficit represented a much bigger percentage of the nation's economic activity and deficit reduction was a necessary priority in his view. 
 ''We need today a multiyear path to a sound fiscal position, but in that context you need to make room for critical public investment,'' Mr. Rubin said, arguing in effect that public spending could be increased in the current circumstances before the budget was brought into balance.
 Mr. Obama, without regard for which should come first, calls for a balanced budget and, speaking in Raleigh, N.C., on Monday, he called for the creation of ''millions of new jobs by rebuilding our schools, roads, bridges and other critical infrastructure.''
 Months ago, Mr. Rubin had said that while he favored Mrs. Clinton as the better candidate, he could easily support Mr. Obama, if he won in the long primary process. He said, for example, that a passage on the impact of globalization in Mr. Obama's book ''The Audacity of Hope'' came out of a conversation the two men had. ''Without question, the pressure on wages and incomes have become greater and we need to focus on those issues,'' Mr. Rubin said, citing himself as a source for that point.
 Mr. Furman, who served for a while as a special economic adviser in the Clinton administration, has taken some controversial positions. He argued in 2005, for example, that Wal-Mart, despite its conflicts with organized labor over pay and health insurance, was a good business model. 
 More recently, he argued that while the typical worker suffers from inadequate income, that worker's living standards, broadly measured, are higher today than those of their counterparts 30 years ago -- an argument in dispute among economists.
 Dismissing such concerns, the Obama camp and Mr. Rubin say that there are few people with Mr. Furman's skill and experience in running economic policy in a fast-moving election campaign. ''He is very well respected by professional economists, and he also knows how to navigate in the world of policy and politics,'' Mr. Rubin said. ''This is not the time to run a training school'' for economic policy directors.
 Until now, Austan Goolsbee, an economist at the University of Chicago, had been Mr. Obama's chief economic adviser. He remains an unpaid adviser. He said he was not a candidate for Mr. Furman's full-time job because of his university duties. 
 Mr. Obama's campaign aides, among them Bill Burton, the press secretary, emphasize that Mr. Furman has already consulted a range of experts, from Mr. Rubin and Lawrence H. Summers, the Harvard economist who succeeded Mr. Rubin as Treasury secretary. 
 Others consulted include Joseph Stiglitz, the Nobel laureate in economics who is critical of Rubinomics; Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute; and James Galbraith, a University of Texas economist whose Keynesian approach and preference for public spending is to the left of Rubinomics.
 ''Of course, I'm part of it,'' Mr. Galbraith said. ''Jason is a guy I know, a professional I respect. If he wants my views, I'm quite happy to be giving them to him. The task before us is to develop practical steps for the problems before us now.''
 Mr. Furman emphatically agreed. ''I am not here to tell Senator Obama what to think about Wal-Mart,'' he said, ''but to help him implement his ideas, and they are ideas I share, like universal health insurance, progressive taxation and not privatizing Social Security.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert E. Rubin, right, with President Clinton in 1999 as the president greeted Lawrence H. Summers, the Harvard economist who succeeded Mr. Rubin as Treasury secretary.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Jason Furman is Barack Obama's economic policy director.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (51%); C (BMV) (51%); 8710 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008



304 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; HARLEM JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Feelings as Change Overtakes 125th St.

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
It isn't news that just two or three years ago, Harlem had a paucity of bank branches, grocery stores and other basic amenities, or that now that more affluent people have started to move there, upscale shops and restaurants have followed.
 But change can have surprising results. While welcoming safer, cleaner streets, longtime residents have found themselves juggling conflicting emotions. And those who enjoyed a measure of stability in the old Harlem now long for the past -- not necessarily because it was better but because it was what they knew. 
 ''The majority of the stores, the 99-cent stores, they're gone,'' said Gwen Walker, 55, a longtime resident of the General Grant Houses in West Harlem, giving one view. ''The Laundromat on the corner is gone. The bodegas are gone. There's large delis now. What had been two for $1 is now one for $3. My neighbor is a beer drinker, and he drinks inexpensive beer, Old English or Colt 45 or Coors -- you can't even buy that in the stores. The stores have imported beers from Germany. The foods being sold -- feta cheese instead of sharp Cheddar cheese. That's a whole other world.'' 
 Gentrification, it turns out, can have an odd psychological effect on those it occurs around. No one -- almost no one -- is wishing for a return of row upon row of boarded-up buildings or the summer mornings when lifeless bodies turned up in vestibules, or the evenings when every block seemed to have its own band of drug dealers and subordinate crackheads. 
 But residents say they do miss having a neighborhood with familiar faces to greet, familiar foods to eat, and no fear of being forced out of their homes.
 It was Dr. Mindy Fullilove, a professor of clinical psychiatry and public health at Columbia University, who called the feeling ''root shock'' because, she said, its effects are similar to what happens to uprooted plants. She describes it as ''the pain of losing one's beloved neighborhood.''
 The psychological hold Harlem has on African-Americans has endured even as the neighborhood's devolution became so complete that between about 1960 and 1990, Harlem had lost a third of its population and half of its housing stock. 
 In 1990, during the height of the crack epidemic, 261 people were murdered in the police precincts that cover Harlem. Last year, there were about 500 murders in the entire city. 
 Those who stayed during the worst years say they developed an even stronger psychological attachment to Harlem, its flaws not unlike their own. The perceived diminution of that neighborhood, caused in part by an influx of middle class people of all races, can feel like a loss of self, they say.
 Ms. Walker, who has lived in the sprawling General Grant Houses, a public housing complex, on and off since the 1950s, said she often sat talking with her neighbors about their changing surroundings, wondering whether any of them will be there in three to five years. 
 She said they speculated that by then, they will have been relocated to ''a rural area in the Bronx'' -- even though a city housing project would seem to be safe from gentrification. ''Change is good, and progress is inevitable,'' she said. ''But the feeling is, 'What are we going to do? Where are we going to go?'''
 During the past several months, Harlem residents have sought to slow the pace of change via lawsuits, protests, calls for economic boycotts, public denunciations of elected officials and town-hall-style meetings with names like ''The State of Black Harlem.'' A large march and rally that organizers say will be ''against displacement and gentrification'' is scheduled for the neighborhood on June 21.
 Apprehension about gentrification has become a constant, and is now a common theme at Sunday church services and a standard topic of conversation in barber shops and beauty salons, on street corners, in bars, at public housing community rooms and among the doormen of the neighborhood's new condominium buildings. This spring, there have been as many as three or four community meetings each week in which gentrification has been discussed -- and roundly denounced.
 Social service organizations in the neighborhood said that they have noted an uptick in clients complaining about insomnia and hypertension related to fears about losing their homes, even when there is no indication that they will be evicted. 
 To be sure, these emotions can be expressed in terms that sound extreme. An example came after street shootings wounded eight young people in the neighborhood on Memorial Day.
 ''I was praying something like this would happen to keep them out,'' Calvin Hunt, 45, a longtime resident with a drastic view, said of the newcomers the morning after the shootings. ''When crack was happening, you could have bought these brownstones for $1. Now they cost $1 million.''
 Then, last month, the City Council approved another significant change: the rezoning of 125th Street, Harlem's central artery, to allow for high-rise office towers and some 2,100 new market-rate condominiums. About 70 small businesses might be closed and some residents displaced.
 In East Harlem, East River Plaza, a $300 million shopping mall anchored by Home Depot, is being built on the site of a long-abandoned wire factory. Two blocks away, glass-walled $1 million condominiums are rising next to six-story tenement buildings. 
 Earlier this year, the average price for new condominium apartments in Harlem hit $900,000, although average household income remains less than $25,000.
 The Rev. Dr. Charles A. Curtis, senior pastor of Mount Olivet Baptist Church, one of Harlem's oldest black churches, said that people feel powerless when they see change that they believe is not intended to benefit them.
 ''There are great developments going on,'' said Pastor Curtis. ''You can see things in your sight, but they're just out of reach.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Settepani, a restaurant on Lenox Avenue and 120th Street in Harlem, is typical of newer businesses that cater to an influx of new residents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (63%); COCAINE (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); PSYCHIATRY (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



305 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1948 words

HEADLINE: Art in Review

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH, KEN JOHNSON, and KAREN ROSENBERG

 BODY:
TOM SACHS
 Bronze Collection
 Lever House
 390 Park Avenue, at 53rd Street
 Through Sept. 6
 Animals
 Sperone Westwater
 415 West 13th Street, West Village
 Through June 21
 Tom Sachs is taking up a lot of space in New York right now and not doing much with it. His exhibitions at his gallery in the West Village and at Lever House suggest that everything in the world is a ready-made waiting to be remade, with or without added quirks and embellishments. In the end the main theme of his work is craft, which might be described as Process Art turned conservative. It's all clever, entertaining handiwork that alternates between cuteness and social satire, but is devoid of soul.
 In his first series in bronze at Lever House, Mr. Sachs remakes things in his beloved white foam core and then makes them again, cast in bronze and painted white. This works really well in one case, giving a new look to a modern design classic: the thigh-high overhanging street light, in cast concrete, that Le Corbusier designed for Chandigarh, India, in the 1950s. Especially in the Lever House courtyard, Mr. Sachs's versions resemble antiterrorist traffic barriers. But they give off a wonderful light, and their whiteness and hollowness fits the modernist setting. 
 The conversion process is all cuteness in a towering version of Hello Kitty that started out as a patchwork of foam core and thus has an endearing ragamuffin quality. A slightly smaller kitty and two Hello-esque Bunnies are also here, looking irresistible as the dickens and sometimes spouting water from their eyes: functioning fountains that are also crying stuffed animals. But cuteness plays O.K. in the shadow of a modernist classic. And the tradition of the serious public monument is lampooned, even as Mr. Sachs seems to play catch-up with Jeff Koons, Takashi Murakami and Donald Baechler.
 In the Lever House lobby, routine realism continues the dissing of sculpture as monument. Its pretenses to permanence are parodied (along with Donald Judd) in a black bronze stack of Duralast car batteries. A pair of bronze quarterpipes pay homage to the way skateboarders repurpose public space; these also function, as does a miniature welded bronze Dumpster.
 It is a bit grimmer at Sperone Westwater, where 25 sculptures and wall pieces are distributed throughout a labyrinth of 10 rooms. Mr. Sachs reprises previous work and ideas in a series of foam-core reliefs and in ''Hardcore,'' a cabinet of homemade weapons labeled with the names of heavy-metal bands, albums and songs. He pointlessly uses a gleaming Bosendorfer concert grand piano as a pedestal for a foam-core model of a whale (a tack taken by Sherrie Levine in the early 1990s with similar low returns). Other pieces are rotelike in skill and cleverness, especially some enlarged versions of a dollar bill and 19th-century prints etched in wood with an electric pen.
 There are a few good moments. ''La Guardia'' is a scaled-down version of the airport's control tower outfitted as a one-stop cat domicile, complete with a self-cleaning litter box, a scholar's rock fountain and video screens. ''Negro Music'' is a boombox in a small isolation chamber; through attached gloves you can choose from scores of cassettes without being contaminated. There's the scrappy bricolage of ''Waffle Bike,'' a little kitchen on wheels that trails behind a cage for the chickens that lay the eggs for the waffles. 
 And finally Mr. Sachs remakes the Bosendorfer, using Con Ed barriers and plywood that he laminated, painted white and filled with dings as the piece was built; it has an electric keyboard and, under the hood, an amplifier and speakers. But generally it is a downer to see so much effort and so much stuff convey so little. ROBERTA SMITH 
 DAVID ALTMEJD
 Andrea Rosen
 525 West 24th Street, Chelsea
 Through June 14
 David Altmejd's constructions integrating crystalline, doll-scale architecture and bejeweled, decomposing werewolves made a splash in the early 2000s. Last summer, as Canada's representative to the Venice Biennale, he created a disorienting fun house of mirrors and gargantuan, lycanthropic body parts.
 Now Mr. Altmejd has produced a startling series of fantastic 12-foot-tall giants: muscular, hirsute, otherworldly colossi that have been subjected to abstract and surrealistic transformations. They are intricately dug into in some places, creating vaguely cavelike inner spaces, and have small-scale structures like a spiral, mirrored staircase added on. Casts of hands emerge from the various cavities and orifices. Some areas of erosion suggest putrefaction; some parts filled in by crystals imply magical transformation. 
 Least interesting are the more abstractly simplified sculptures: Cubist figures made of neatly assembled mirror facets and others defined by gnarly, tubular webs.
 The more fully fleshed-out pieces are exciting as images that metaphorically embrace the further reaches of human possibility, from death and decay of the body to the mind's experience of transcendental beauty. But they are less thrilling formally. Though big and imposing, the single figure standing on a pedestal is static, and the Joseph Cornell-like interior intrigue of Mr. Altmejd's earlier work is lost. 
 Mr. Altmejd's ambition to tackle new sculptural challenges is admirable, and his visionary conflation of the body, architecture, landscape and myth is certainly compelling. Maybe trading in the intimacy of his earlier work for the showy impact of the new sculptures will turn out to be a good bet in the long run, but it's not a sure thing. KEN JOHNSON
 LIAM GILLICK
 The State Itself Becomes 
 a Super Whatnot
 Casey Kaplan
 525 West 21st Street, Chelsea
 Through June 14
 Liam Gillick's new abstract sculptures ravish the eye and, in concert with the words on the walls and a turgid gallery news release, tease the mind. Mr. Gillick, who was nominated for the Turner Prize in 2002, follows the lead of Peter Halley, whose written essays explained his grid-based abstract paintings as representations of modern social structures. In Mr. Gillick's case, however, the relationship between the formal facts and the social theory they're supposed to represent defies comprehension.
 The principal sculptures in this show are six-and-a-half-foot-tall fencelike structures. They are made of L-shaped lengths of steel painted in bright colors and have colored plexiglass panels filling in selected openings. Two pieces enclose eight-by-eight-foot areas, and two others are in the form of double-sided, free-standing screens. They cannily update Donald Judd's hedonistic Minimalism. Or they could be fancy patio enclosures. 
 Announcing an otherwise invisible conceptual dimension, big black letters on the gallery walls spell ''The state itself becomes a super whatnot'' and ''The whatnot itself becomes a super state.'' The news release says that the sculptures represent complex ideas about industrial production and economic exchange. 
 The verbal additions encourage viewers to think about the sculptures holistically, to see them in a broad socioeconomic context rather than as isolated, purely aesthetic confections. But because the connection between the constructions and the expanded field of reference is so unclear, it is easier to see Mr. Gillick's sculptures simply as suave, eminently salable designer objects. KEN JOHNSON 
 MATTHEW BRANNON
 The Question Is 
 a Compliment
 Friedrich Petzel
 537 West 22nd Street,Chelsea
 Through July 11
 Successful artists who never quite severed their ties to the commercial sphere -- Andy Warhol, Richard Prince -- are the model for Matthew Brannon. Using letterpress, silk-screens and othercommercial printing methods, Mr. Brannon elevates graphic design to the level of text-based contemporary art (or is it the other way around?). He has also organized a literary-inspired group exhibition at Casey Kaplan, ''Not So Subtle Subtitle,'' opening on Thursday.
 The bulk of the show at Petzel consists of a series of letterpress prints of women's high-heel shoes, worthy of Carrie Bradshaw's walk-in closet. These cheerful images are accompanied by the bitter and frustrated ruminations of various characters: ''an effete young man, a handsome yet weary detective addicted to painkillers, a group of art enthusiasts, several irresponsible waiters, two bookish hairdressers, a nympho florist, a frustrated critic, a tireless reporter.''
 Lest the prints seem too novelistic, Mr. Brannon displays them on handmade rigs of fiberboard, oak veneer and stainless steel. He also makes subtle sculptural and architectural interventions throughout the gallery. In the front hall he has suspended a ''light bulb'' (actually a polystyrene carving) from a wooden drop ceiling. He has also placed white-noise machines around the gallery and installed a small bookshelf high on the wall.
 Like many young artists, Mr. Brannon sometimes relies too much on titles, news releases and other contextualizers. In the back gallery, a series of silk-screens on newsprint depict colorful discs (said to represent pornographic DVDs, but otherwise innocuous).
 Mr. Brannon's texts tend to regurgitate urban cliches, just as his images recycle midcentury design. The sum of these parts, however, speaks directly and authentically to the aspirations and anxieties of young, creative New Yorkers. KAREN ROSENBERG
 THE NEW NORMAL
 Artists Space
 38 Greene Street, SoHo
 Through June 21
 Privacy, violated by aggressive surveillance and voluntarily relinquished on social networking sites, is the subject and substance of this group show organized by Independent Curators International.
 Most of the work in the exhibition is digital or photographic, but the artists Jennifer and Kevin McCoy have created a theatrical installation based on Vice President Dick Cheney's hospitality requirements (as reported on the Web site The Smoking Gun). It includes a queen-size bed, cans of caffeine-free Diet Sprite and televisions tuned to Fox News.
 The show, which has a component at the-new-normal.net and a Facebook page, includes several Web-based projects. The most pertinent is Hasan Elahi's ''Tracking Transience,'' a ''digital alibi'' created after the artist was repeatedly questioned by the F.B.I. Viewers can peruse up-to-date records of Mr. Elahi's transactions and telephone calls and locate him on a map in real time.
 Several artists hypothesize that surveillance can be a kind of seduction. Jill Magid documents her extended flirtation with a Metropolitan Transportation Authority police officer. Sharif Waked designs provocative clothing for men who are often strip-searched at security checkpoints.
 The most engaging work uses surveillance technology as only a starting point. In ''Unfinished'' (2005), Sophie Calle documents her unsuccessful attempts to make art from bank security-camera footage. She interviews bank employees, asks strangers about their salaries and commissions a perfumer to create ''the scent of money.'' After years of frustration, she gives up. The faces of people using A.T.M.'s appear in the video, but for Ms. Calle this footage does not, on its own, amount to art.
 Ms. Calle's experience suggests that the ''normalcy'' of intrusive technology, the sheer ubiquity of data, makes it hard for artists to create something rare and profound. This point is emphasized, perhaps unintentionally, in a work by Miranda July and Harrell Fletcher. On learningtoloveyoumore.com, Ms. July and Mr. Fletcher asked readers to submit photographs of the spaces underneath their beds. The result, on display at the gallery, is a thoroughly prosaic archive of cats and dirty socks. KAREN ROSENBERG 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Wind-Up Hello Kitty'' (2008) by Tom Sachs is on display in the Lever House courtyard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GENEVIEVE HANSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); SKATEBOARDING (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (72%); POP & ROCK (62%); MUSIC (62%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (62%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (60%); COUNTERTERRORISM (51%); TERRORISM (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%); CHANDIGARH, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (73%); INDIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



306 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: A Question Mark Looms Over Three Expensive Projects

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
More than two years ago, the Bloomberg administration came up with an aggressively creative way to use tax-exempt bonds to finance two of the most expensive stadiums in the world, one for the Yankees in the Bronx and another for the Mets in Queens.
 The Internal Revenue Service initially approved the use of the bonds for the ballparks, but quickly issued a proposal in 2006 to tighten the rules governing the use of tax-exempt bonds so that it would be more difficult, and perhaps impossible, for this kind of financing to be used again by profitable, private enterprises like professional sports teams. 
 Now state and city officials say the proposed rules are jeopardizing what is planned to be the city's next big sports palace: the $950 million Barclays Center, an 18,000-seat basketball arena for the Nets that is the centerpiece of the huge residential and commercial complex in Brooklyn known as Atlantic Yards. The project's developer, Forest City Ratner, says it plans to break ground on the arena this fall and has long expected to use tax-exempt financing to reduce its borrowing costs by tens of millions of dollars.
 Barclays Center is expected to be the most expensive arena in the world, and the lack of tax-exempt financing would substantially increase its cost. The $4 billion Atlantic Yards project already faces delays because of litigation, a sluggish economy, the lack of commercial tenants and the reluctance of lenders to finance large real estate developments.
 ''We're working to address tax-exempt financing because the proposed regulations will have a significant impact on projects planned in the city,'' said Avi Schick, chief executive of the Empire State Development Corporation, which is working with the Atlantic Yards developer. 
 State and city officials, along with the developer, have been lobbying the Treasury Department in Washington either to block the rule change or, more likely, to provide waivers for projects that had been in the development pipeline before 2006, which would include the Yankees, Mets and Nets.
 If adopted, the I.R.S. rule would apply to all tax-exempt bonds issued after February 2007. 
 In an interview this year, Bruce C. Ratner of Forest City said that he hoped to raise about $800 million through tax-exempt bonds. He acknowledged that ''the tax changes would make it more difficult'' to do the project, although he was still optimistic that he could break ground for the arena this fall.
 The changes by the I.R.S. would also pose a problem for the new Yankee Stadium, nearing completion just north of the team's historic home in the Bronx. The Yankees have already raised nearly $1 billion for the new stadium, including $943 million in tax-exempt bonds.
 But to finish the project, the team has been planning to raise an additional $250 million to $350 million for the stadium, much of it through tax-exempt financing. 
 ''The proposed I.R.S regulation has removed an important tool for a number of key important economic development projects, including the Yankees and Nets stadiums,'' said Seth W. Pinsky, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation. ''We are working with the state in Washington to receive relief from the I.R.S. regulation.''
 Randy Levine, president of the Yankees, said the team hoped to get a waiver from the new regulation, which was conceived after his project received approval in 2006. He said it would be unfair to change the rules midstream for the Yankees, Mets or Nets. ''The whole idea of tax-exempt financing is to encourage economic development,'' he said.
 The bonds were issued by the city, but the Yankees are obligated to make the annual debt payments, which would be about $56.7 million, starting in 2010. The city's Independent Budget Office has estimated that the team would save about $190 million over the 40-year life of the bonds.
 So far, the Mets have raised $612.9 million, including $547.35 million in tax-exempt financing, for what will be called CitiField, a new stadium reminiscent of Ebbets Field, where the Brooklyn Dodgers played.
 Both stadiums have received substantial subsidies from the city and the state, including an investment of $204 million in Yankee Stadium and $166.1 million for CitiField. In addition, the city and the state are spending well over $300 million on new parking garages and new parkland and ballfields to replace what was taken for the new Yankee Stadium. 
 But the proposed changes in the I.R.S. regulations are far more significant for the Nets and Atlantic Yards, which has not yet issued any bonds or started construction. Mr. Ratner bought the Nets in 2004 and planned to move them to Brooklyn from New Jersey as part of a 22-acre development project, which is to include more than 5,000 apartments, at the intersection of Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues.
 Since then he has had to deal with a lengthy public approval process and significant opposition from neighborhood and civic groups, as the cost of the arena rose to nearly $1 billion from $637 million. When the project was approved in December 2006, Mr. Ratner optimistically indicated that its first phase -- the arena, an office tower, a retail complex and three residential buildings -- would be completed by 2010. But under a financing agreement completed nine months later, he was given 12 years to complete the first phase.
 The economic picture has changed significantly. This year, Mr. Ratner acknowledged that he would not begin construction of the office tower, once known as Miss Brooklyn, until he had an anchor tenant, which could take years. He did say that he hoped to complete the arena in 2010, along with the first residential building. 
 Forest City Ratner was the development partner for the new Midtown headquarters of The New York Times Company.
 Real estate executives say that if Mr. Ratner cannot get tax-exempt financing for the arena, it will make the project significantly harder.
 Joseph DePlasco, a spokesman for Forest City Ratner, said on Thursday that the company remained confident that it would break ground on the arena this fall.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 18, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Friday with an article about an Internal Revenue Service proposal that would make the construction of three expensive sports arenas in New York even more costly referred incompletely to the site of the planned Barclays Center arena, the centerpiece of the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn. The arena site is in the upper left quadrant of the photograph; it does not extend to the area in the center of the frame.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CITIFIELD: So far the Mets have raised $612.9 million, including $547.35 million in tax-exempt financing, for the new Mets stadium, right. It has also received substantial subsidies from the city and the state, as has Yankee Stadium. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK LAHAM/GETTY IMAGES)
YANKEE STADIUM: The new one, right, is nearly done, but developers hope to raise an additional $250 million to $350 million with tax-exempt bonds. Access to such financing is already expected to save the project about $190 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 ARENA SITE: The planned $950 million Barclays Center, an 18,000-seat basketball arena for the Nets and the centerpiece of the Atlantic Yards project. Ineligibility for tax-exempt financing would significantly increase its cost. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); BOND ISSUES (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); APPROVALS (72%); BASKETBALL (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%); LITIGATION (50%)

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



307 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Rise Above Forecasts

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Retail sales picked up last month as Americans received more than $50 billion in stimulus checks. Investors took the report as an encouraging sign for the resilience of the economy, even as some analysts wondered how long the uptick would last.
 Sales of retail goods and services rose 1 percent in May, double what economists had expected, the Commerce Department said on Thursday. The biggest gains came at gasoline stations, where high prices brought more income to station owners, and at outlets for home and garden supplies. 
 Wall Street warmed to the strong report, which also revised higher the government's original estimates for sales in April and March. The Dow Jones industrials rose nearly 200 points before falling back in the afternoon; the index closed up half a percent at 12,141.58.
 But as is usual with economic indicators, the report came with its share of caveats. Sales were 2.5 percent lower than in May 2007, extending a downward trend that began at the end of last year. On an annual basis, sales have fallen for the last six months when adjusted for inflation.
 And even as Americans headed to the mall, they faced higher prices when they got there. The price of imports rose sharply in May, according to a separate report released Thursday, driven up by expensive oil and the comparatively weak dollar.
 ''Once one begins to look over the horizon for a catalyst to support consumption, all that remains is a stressed consumer whose purchasing power is rapidly being reduced by the ravages of inflation,'' Joseph Brusuelas, an economist at Merk Investments, wrote in a note.
 But other economists were adamant that support from the stimulus package had made many Americans more eager to buy.
 ''The May retail sales report has dramatically changed the landscape,'' Nigel Gault, an economist at Global Insight, a forecasting firm, wrote in a note. ''Consumer spending has held up much better than gloomy sentiment surveys would suggest.''
 Data for the report, which surveyed 5,000 companies, was collected over a period that coincided with the distribution of $56.8 billion in tax rebates, slightly more than half of the government's total stimulus package.
 Statisticians at the Commerce Department could not definitively attribute the sales increase to the stimulus checks -- unlike many economists in the private sector.
 ''The sharp improvement in May was clearly driven by receipt of the first wave of tax rebate payments,'' Joshua Shapiro, an economist at the research firm MFR, wrote in a note. ''These payments will continue to be a positive factor for the consumer in the next couple of months.''
 Some, however, sounded a more skeptical note.
 ''We're just doing the Sherlock Holmes thing here,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute. ''We know that sales got an unexpected bump, we know jobs and incomes are down and we know rebate checks are in people's pockets. Put them together, and you get a strong supposition. But it's certainly not proof.''
 The report fueled expectations among investors that the Federal Reserve would hold interest rates steady -- or possibly raise them -- in the months ahead. 
 Retail sales are considered a good gauge for consumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of the nation's economic activity. Last month's increase suggested that the economy might be resilient enough to withstand a rate increase, which can curb inflation but can also shut down growth. 
 Talk of a rate increase was compounded by the increase in import prices, which rose 2.3 percent in May after a 2.4 percent rise in April, according to the Labor Department. Even after discounting petroleum products, prices grew by 6.6 percent compared with a year earlier.
 The reports led investors to raise their expectations that the Fed would raise rates. The yield on the two-year Treasury bill jumped nearly a quarter of a percentage point on Thursday, to its highest level since January. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note moved up 0.14 percentage points, to 4.21 percent, a signal that investors think the Fed will shift its focus to fighting inflation. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished the day up 0.3 percent, at 1,339.87, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 0.4 percent, at 2,404.35. 
 Also Thursday, the Labor Department said the number of workers who filed first-time claims for unemployment benefits rose 25,000, to 384,000, in the week that ended June 7. The Commerce Department reported that business inventories rose 0.5 percent in April, up from 0.2 percent in March. 
 Following are the results of Thursday's auction of new 10-year Treasury notes:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers at a Steve & Barry's in New York. Retail sales gained in May as Americans received about $50 billion in tax rebates. The 1 percent increase was double what economists expected. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. C5) GRAPHS: JOBLESS CLAIMS: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
FREDDIE MAC YIELDS: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
RETAIL SALES: Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department)
 TAX-EXEMPT YIELDS: Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. (Source: The Bond Buyer) (pg. C5) Graphs showing a rise in retail sales. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); SALES PROJECTIONS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); IMPORT PRICES (71%); US DOLLAR (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



308 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: As Banks Shun Loans, Hedge Funds Move In

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Companies traditionally get loans from banks, but with so many lenders stretched and with credit so tight these days, businesses are turning to what might seem like an unlikely source for cash: hedge funds.
 As banks retrench, hedge funds increasingly are offering loans to companies, usually at interest rates that are far higher than those that banks charge. More than 100 funds specialize in lending, and several big ones, like Fortress Investment Group and Citadel Investment Group, are starting to follow suit. 
 While some funds have been offering loans for a few years, more are moving in because the credit squeeze has hobbled many banks and left hard-pressed companies hungry for cash. 
 ''Anybody who needs money is going to a hedge fund now,'' said Matthew T. Hoffman, chief investment officer of Weston Capital Management, a fund of hedge funds in Westport, Conn. ''These funds have been inundated with requests. The volume of requests has gone up probably five times.''
 The hedge funds are hardly being generous. They often charge rates of as much as 3.2 percentage points more than bank rates.
 ''You're talking to people who are very thirsty or hungry to get double-digit returns,'' said Ed Banks, chief investment officer of Washington Corner, a hedge fund in New Jersey. ''And they know you're coming hat in hand.''
 Economists predict that it is only a matter of time before the cutback in bank lending causes a slowdown in industries far from Wall Street. Just over half of domestic banks reported that they tightened standards on commercial lending in April in a Federal Reserve survey, up from 30 percent in January. 
 But hedge funds may fill a small part of the void. The number of hedge funds that specialize in what is called ''asset-based lending'' has quadrupled in the last three years, according to HedgeFund.net, a hedge fund information service owned by Channel Capital Group. New funds of this sort include the Weston Fund in Riverside, Conn., founded in January, and the Genesis Merchant Partners fund, which opened in Greenwich, Conn., last week.
 These banklike hedge funds had about $12 billion in assets to lend as of the end of last year, up from $900 million three years ago, according to HedgeFund.net. Big funds like Citadel and private equity giants like Cerberus Capital Management have even more. Unlike banks, which raise money from depositors, hedge funds are not regulated. The funds get their capital from wealthy investors. 
 Y. Judd Shoval founded a lending hedge fund, Ambit Funding, in early 2005 after a career running local banks. Consolidation in the banking industry left a niche for hedge funds for a variety of loan types, he said, and his fund makes commercial loans in 12 states. 
 Mr. Shoval does much the same type of lending he did at banks. His depositors are not banking customers who can access their money 24 hours a day, but rather investors who have a six month lock-up on their money. And he charges the standard hedge fund fees to investors.
 ''We are a hedge fund, but we look at each situation through the prism of a bank,'' Mr. Shoval said.
 To be sure, there were hedge funds that jumped in during the loose lending of recent years and lost money on loans, just as the banks did. And hedge funds may find their investors weary of investing more heavily in loans because such debt is often illiquid and hard to value, said Michael Zupon, a managing director and head of the domestic leveraged finance group at the Carlyle Group.
 And hedge funds, those often secretive, sometimes volatile investment vehicles, often arouse suspicions. Some companies still remember tales that circulated in the late 1990s about hedge funds that purchased stakes in small companies through what was known as a ''death-spiral convertible.'' These shares can be converted into common stock as a company's share price drops, and that strategy is said to be returning now. 
 ''Hedge funds have been known to come in and profit from a company's demise,'' said Meredith Jones, managing director of PerTrac Financial Solutions, a financial software company. 
 But, Ms. Jones said, may distressed companies have little choice but turn to hedge funds.
 ''It's kind of like: do you sign a lease with your landlord? Well, if you don't, you don't have a place to live,'' she said. 
 Some hedge funds have been hoarding cash for the time when companies are desperate, said Michael Fuller, managing director of Private Advisors, which manages a fund of funds of direct-lending hedge funds. The terms banks were offering in recent years were so generous, with such low interest rates, that some hedge fund managers refrained from lending, he said.
 ''Up until six months ago, they couldn't compete,'' Mr. Fuller said. ''So they just waited and held lots of cash on their books. Now Wall Street is spitting stuff out. Some are great investments.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Y. Judd Shoval said his hedge fund, Ambit Funding, makes loans in 12 states. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WENDY CARLSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%)

COMPANY: FORTRESS INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (57%); CITADEL INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (57%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (51%)

TICKER: FIG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



309 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Thornburg Mortgage Posts $3.31 Billion Loss

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: SANTA FE, N.M. 

 BODY:
Thornburg Mortgage said Thursday that it swung to a $3.31 billion loss in the first quarter and that it expected loan delinquencies would continue to increase for the rest of the year. 
 Before paying preferred dividends, Thornburg lost $3.31 billion, or $20.64 a share, in contrast to a profit of $75 million, or 62 cents a share, a year earlier.
 Thornburg specializes in larger mortgages, known as jumbo loans, which total more than $417,000. The company said the value of securities it owns dropped sharply during the quarter amid a slowing economy and continued housing slump, forcing it to take market-value losses of $1.54 billion.
 Thornburg also recorded $949.1 million worth of charges related to financing.
 Thornburg faced margin calls of about $1.8 billion in the first two months of the year. By March 6, the company had paid out $1.2 billion of those calls, but did not have enough cash to pay back the remaining $610 million, forcing it to sell some of its portfolio and seek alternative financing.
 The company later raised $1.35 billion in capital.
 ''Despite the continued modest increase in loan delinquencies in the first quarter of 2008 and our expectation that delinquencies are likely to continue to increase modestly over the balance of the year, the credit quality of our originated and acquired loan portfolio continues to perform extremely well, and their performance is consistent with our current estimates,'' said Larry Goldstone, chief executive of Thornburg.
 Shares of Thornburg, which is based in Santa Fe, rose 3 cents, or 4 percent, to 75 cents a share. A year ago, the shares traded for as much as $27.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); PREFERRED STOCK (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (86%) NEW MEXICO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



310 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Courage to Bear Witness To Man's Infinite Cruelties

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
''A Promise to the Dead: The Exile Journey of Ariel Dorfman,'' the opening-night selection of this year's Human Rights Watch International Film Festival, may not be the strongest of the program's 19 feature-length films, but its rambling portrait of Mr. Dorfman, the Chilean playwright (''Death and the Maiden''), novelist and essayist, is a profile in courage colored with the anxiety of a human rights activist faced with painful moral choices.
 To die a martyr or to live to bear witness: that is the question. You can read about men and women who stand up to injustice and feel a shuddering admiration. But to absorb a documentary film about such a person is a more intense and potentially life-changing experience. 
 Sober contemplation of man's inhumanity to man and those who combat it is the essential value of the festival, at the Walter Reade Theater through June 26. The films take you to perilous places while raising fundamental questions about the moral accountability of individuals, governments and institutions. 
 One theme of ''A Promise to the Dead'' is the pain of exile. Mr. Dorfman, who was born in Argentina, grew up in New York and settled in Chile in 1954, was a cultural adviser to the Chilean president Salvador Allende, whose democratic socialist philosophy he embraced wholeheartedly. He now teaches at Duke University. 
 Directed by Peter Raymont, who also made the excellent Rwanda-based documentary ''Shake Hands With the Devil: The Journey of Romeo Dallaire,'' the movie follows Mr. Dorfman around the streets of Santiago on a return trip to Chile. He meets old friends and recalls the tumultuous time before the military coup that ousted Allende and installed the repressive regime of Augusto Pinochet. Under Pinochet thousands were murdered and Mr. Dorfman was driven into exile. 
 He pointedly compares the events on the day of the coup, Sept. 11, 1973, to America's more recent 9/11 trauma. He had promised other Allende supporters that he would survive to tell the tale, and there came a critical moment when he had to flee or face certain execution. He kept his promise and told the story, but at a heavy price of survivor's guilt.
 ''Traces of the Trade: A Story From the Deep North,'' a far-reaching personal documentary examination of the slave trade directed by Katrina Browne with Alla Kovgan and Jude Ray, also addresses history and accountability. Ms. Browne, who grew up in Bristol, R.I., discovered that her ancestors, the DeWolfs, were one of the busiest slave-trading families in the United States. Researching local archives, she learned that the slave trade and its related enterprises not only made the family rich, they were also a cornerstone of the New England economy. Shaken, she organizes a party of the few relatives willing to participate, and together they retrace the steps of the triangular trade route, from the coast of Ghana to Cuba to New England. 
 The implications of the film are devastating. The North was the South's complicit economic enabler, and the movie suggests that the North's high-toned abolitionist rhetoric was a cover story. The old saying that ''behind every great fortune there is a crime'' echoes silently through the movie, which extends that notion to implicate an entire society.
 Just as devastating is ''The Betrayal'' (''Nerakhoon''), directed by Ellen Kuras and Thavisouk Phrasavath, which was filmed over 23 years and follows a Laotian family's migration from Asia to a slum in a dangerous Brooklyn neighborhood. The betrayals multiply, beginning with the story of Mr. Phrasavath's father, who, after working with American forces during the secret bombing of Laos, was left to fend for himself when the Vietnam War ended. He was imprisoned and presumed dead. 
 The refugee family's dream of American streets paved with gold became a nightmare when they found themselves dumped in a violent, gang-infested neighborhood and given scant help. Somehow the children grew up, having survived almost unimaginable hardship.
 ''Traces of the Trade'' and ''Betrayal'' are 2 of an unprecedented 20 films (including shorts) in the festival directed by women. Its centerpiece, ''The Sari Soldiers,'' directed by Julie Bridgham, follows the struggle of Devi, an intrepid Nepalese woman, and five other women to find her daughter after she is kidnapped by members of the Royal Nepalese Army in retaliation for Devi speaking publicly about the torture and murder of her niece. Like so many of the films in the festival, it gives new meaning to the words courage and resilience.
 The festival runs through June 26 at the Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center; (212) 875-5600, hrw.org/iff/. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Traces of the Trade: A Story From the Deep North'' is a wide-reaching personal documentary history of the slave trade. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EBB POD PRODUCTIONS)
 ''A Promise to the Dead: The Exile Journey of Ariel Dorfman'' is among 19 feature films in the Human Rights Watch film festival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WHITE PINE PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); SLAVERY (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); FILM (89%); WRITERS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); FAMILY (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); COUPS (68%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (91%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (74%) CHILE (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); RWANDA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



311 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE CITY LIFE; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Trading Pickles for Art Galleries

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

 BODY:
The warning from the National Trust for Historic Preservation that the Lower East Side is one of the 11 most endangered places in America seems fast food for thought. Hasn't that been the case ever since this sliver of Manhattan was laid bare more than a century ago as the crammed tenement haven for immigrants? 
 A consultation was required with Al Kaufman at The Pickle Guys on Essex Street. ''We're the only ones left in the neighborhood who still make pickles on the premises,'' said the master briner, who agrees with the historic trust's warning that ''irreparable damage'' is being done by new high-rise condos and hotels. They tower over the horizontal, sepia charm of the old ghetto. ''Art galleries are here now, two other pickle shops gone from this block alone,'' Mr. Kaufman noted.
 As gentrification rushes in, the neighborhood is fortunate to have the Lower East Side Tenement Museum, so tourists can still walk through the way things were. A preservationist urge is also evident on the streets -- from demands for tighter zoning to an ''egg rolls and egg creams'' block party this Sunday by The Museum at Eldridge Street. 
 Newcomers take care to extol the old history even as they open sleek high-rent shops and cafes where a pushcart economy once reigned. A gleaming tower on Ludlow Street, replete with tenants' gym and yoga center, touts Katz's, the antique, still mouth-watering delicatessen, in the sales pitch for a luxurious ''new view of the Lower East Side.'' 
 ''I sell a 50-cent item -- that's a lot of pickles to sell for survival,'' said Mr. Kaufman, epitomizing the timeless hope of any good neighborhood: to endure change, perchance to capitalize on it. By all the laws of urban upheaval, no neighborhood gets fully dipped in amber, never mind brine. 
 So Mr. Kaufman is as adaptive as the newcomers. He has The Pickle Guys up on the Internet (under the rabbinical blessing of Shmuel Fishelis). He'll ship his barrel-cured pickles, peppers and olives anywhere in the nation. ''Gourmet'' crunch guaranteed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); HISTORY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); CITY LIFE (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (69%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



312 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2224 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 13, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 BOMB DESTROYS HEADQUARTERS
 Of a Leading Sunni Party in Iraq
 A major Sunni political party's headquarters in western Iraq was blown up, and in southern Iraq, where Shiite factions have been fighting each other, a powerful bomb was discovered on the road to an important Shiite shrine. Both episodes pointed to probable tensions in the months before provincial elections, in which factions are fighting hard to ensure that they have a place at the political table. PAGE A16
 5 KILLED IN GAZA BLAST
 A large explosion destroyed a residential building in the northern Gaza town of Beit Lahiya, killing at least five Palestinians. The Islamist group Hamas initially blamed an Israeli airstrike, and it unleashed a hail of rockets and mortar rounds at Israeli towns and villages. But a spokesman later tacitly acknowledged that the blast could have been caused by explosives being handled by militants inside the home. PAGE A16 
 VOWS OF AID FOR AFGHANISTAN
 More than 60 countries and international institutions offered about $20 billion in aid for Afghanistan -- more than half from the United States -- as part of a conference in Paris. But officials fretted over whether the Afghan government was doing all that it could to make sure the money would not go into the pockets of the country's warlords and corrupt government officials. PAGE A16
 CHINA AND TAIWAN IN TALKS
 Representatives of China and Taiwan, on the first day of talks about how to strengthen their economic relationship, agreed to establish permanent offices in each other's capitals to help coordinate discussions. The meetings, taking place between so-called unofficial negotiating bodies, are the highest-level talks between the two since 1999. One issue is how to increase charter flights between China and Taiwan. PAGE A12
 QUAKE MEMORIAL CALLED OFF
 Parents of children who died in a school collapse during the May 12 earthquake in Sichuan Province dropped their plan for a one-month mourning ceremony after local officials warned them not to go through with it, two of the parents said. The group's members were told not to contact one another and not to stay in the town of Juyuan, site of the collapse, they said. PAGE A10
 NATIONAL
 BAN ON REGISTRATION DRIVES
 For Veterans Is Criticized
 Voting rights groups are criticizing the Department of Veterans Affairs for its decision to ban registration drives among the veterans living at federally run nursing homes, homeless shelters and rehabilitation centers across the country. Mary G. Wilson, president of the League of Women Voters, said, ''They appear to be using technicalities to block many veterans from registering to vote.'' PAGE A18
 RESISTING SAME-SEX UNION RULING
 Thousands of gay and lesbian couples across California are expected to tie the knot next week, when a State Supreme Court decision granting that right becomes official. But the ceremonies will not come without strong opposition. Several counties have announced that they will not solemnize any ceremonies, citing administrative and budgetary concerns, which has some gay rights advocates crying foul. PAGE A18
 USING THE WEB TO DEBUNK RUMORS
 Senator Barack Obama's presidential campaign began to push back against what it said were unfounded and potentially damaging reports by unveiling a new Web site. On it are five sets of rumors about Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, along with responses intended to establish once and for all that they are baseless. PAGE A24
 VERMONT ASSISTS WITH GAS COSTS
 Gov. Jim Douglas of Vermont announced the creation of a task force to help residents combat the high prices of gasoline, home heating oil and food. The state will establish a no- or low-interest program to help residents weatherize their homes. PAGE A23
 MORE REPORTS OF TAINTED TOMATOES
 The tainted-tomato outbreak has spread to six more states, federal health officials said. Along with New York, the five new states with cases were Florida, Georgia, Missouri, Tennessee and Vermont, and the total number of people sickened by salmonella-tainted tomatoes rose to 228. PAGE A21
 METRO
 FORMER STATE ASSEMBLYWOMAN
 Sentenced for Influence Peddling
 A judge sentenced a former state assemblywoman from Brooklyn, Diane M. Gordon, to two to six years in prison for offering to help a developer acquire city land if he built her a house without charge. Prosecutors sought a longer sentence, arguing that Ms. Gordon, a Democrat, had the gall to run for re-election after her indictment. (She won.) Her lawyer argued for a sentence of community service. PAGE B1 
 HARLEM'S CHANGES NOT FOR EVERYONE
 No one in Harlem is wishing for a return of the boarded-up buildings, the lifeless bodies found in vestibules or the bands of drug dealers and crackheads. But gentrification has various consequences, and residents say they do miss having a neighborhood with familiar faces to greet, familiar foods to eat and no fear of being priced out of their homes. PAGE B1 
 EXPIRED DRUGS AT PHARMACIES
 A survey of drugstores by the state attorney general's office found expired items, including milk, eggs, infant formula and common medications, at more than 250 stores across the state, 50 of them in New York City. Doctors said that consumers would not be poisoned by taking expired medication like allergy remedies, Tylenol or cough syrup, but that the medicine might have lost its potency. PAGE B3 
 BUSINESS
 RETAIL SALES INCREASE
 More Than Expected
 The Commerce Department said that retail sales rose more than anticipated in May, news that Wall Street found to its liking. But some economists remained skeptical, and a separate measure of import prices rose sharply in May, driven up by expensive oil and the comparatively weak dollar. That report may play into fears of inflation. PAGE C1
 LOOKING AT DEBT RATINGS
 Criticized by states and cities for how it rates their bonds, Moody's Investors Service said it was considering rating municipal debt on the same scale it used for corporate debt. The move could help lower borrowing costs for some local governments and lead to less demand for bond insurance at a time when several big guarantors are faltering. PAGE C5
 HEDGE FUNDS LENDING
 With banks retrenching on credit, hedge funds are increasingly offering business loans, usually at interest rates that are far higher than those that banks charge. And though economists predict that it is only a matter of time before the cutback in bank lending causes a business slowdown, hedge funds may fill a small part of the void. PAGE C4
 UNITED SETS BAG FEE
 Get ready to slug it out for the overhead bin space: United Airlines became the latest to say it would begin charging many passengers to check their first bag, joining American Airlines in assessing a $15 luggage fee for passengers flying on the cheapest tickets. PAGE C1
 EUROPEAN UTILITIES CHARGED
 The European Commission charged the leading suppliers of natural gas in France and Germany with colluding to raise prices. The accusations focus on how the suppliers, Gaz de France and E.on, managed a pipeline, called Megal, which they jointly own, and which links France and Germany and facilitates the flow of Russian natural gas to Western Europe. Both utilities denied the charges. PAGE C2
 Invitrogen in Purchase C3
 Not Admitting an Error C1
 WEEKEND
 A LETHAL LURKING
 In Yonder Trees
 If you can ignore the harping about the assorted failings of M. Night Shyamalan -- and, unless you are a critic, you probably can -- then you might find his latest movie, ''The Happening,'' enjoyable. Manohla Dargis writes that ''it turns out to be a divertingly goofy thriller with an animistic bent, moments of shivery and twitchy suspense and a solid lead performance from Mark Wahlberg.'' PAGE E1 
 VAN GOGH AFTER DARK
 A curator's brainstorming about small shows that might focus on an item from the permanent collection, and taking ''The Starry Night'' as a starting point, has led to ''Van Gogh and the Colors of the Night,'' which will open at the Museum of Modern Art in September. It appears that the artist was quite obsessed with the nocturnal world. PAGE E23 
 FEATURING THE SIMPLE FOLK
 ''The Hired Man,'' a chamber musical that's part of the Brits Off Broadway festival, bears little resemblance to the better-known, Broadway-devouring British musicals of that era, writes Charles Isherwood, who finds it respectable, but hardly exciting or innovative. ''If it's splashy fun you're looking for, look elsewhere.'' PAGE E2 
 BEARING WITNESS
 Among the 19 feature-length films at this year's Human Rights Watch International Film Festival is ''Traces of the Trade: A Story From the Deep North,'' a personal documentary examination of the slave trade directed by a woman whose ancestors profited handsomely from that trade. Stephen Holden writes that ''the movie suggests that the North's high-toned abolitionist rhetoric was a cover story.'' PAGE E6 Turns Angry When Shaken B1 
 Heavy Light E23 
 A Venerable Festival E1 
 SPORTS
 ATOP THE OPEN LEADER BOARD, 
 But Who Is That Guy?
 If your name is Justin Hicks and you play golf professionally, then you may have shot a 3-under-par 68 on Thursday to take the early, first-round lead of the 108th Open at Torrey Pines Golf Course. Unless you are the other Justin Hicks who plays golf professionally and is also in San Diego. Perhaps not surprisingly, the golf world has a bit of trouble sorting out the two. PAGE D2 
 PERCEPTION VS. REALITY
 Perceptions of preordainment regarding professional basketball existed long before news of the corrupt officiating career of Tim Donaghy, Harvey Araton writes in Sports of The Times. Aggrieved fans, coaches, maybe even players, see controlling forces at work in their disappointments. But separating perception from reality is not always an easy thing to do. PAGE D1 
 OBITUARIES
 HARLAN CLEVELAND, 90
 A former president of the University of Hawaii and an American ambassador to NATO, he pressed for nuclear arms control and strengthening of the United Nations. PAGE B7 
 JOHN RAUCH, 80
 A devotee of the passing game, he coached the Oakland Raiders in the second Super Bowl and was later O. J. Simpson's first coach in professional football, with the Buffalo Bills. PAGE B7 
 EDWINA FROEHLICH, 93
 A pioneer on several fronts, she was inspired to help found La Leche League to support breast-feeding after being told at the age of 35 that she was too old to make breast milk for her baby. PAGE B7 
 ESCAPES
 WHEN THE R.S.V.P.'S
 Come Back 'Non, Merci'
 So, eager to get away from it all, you've bought a weekend home, and, eager to share your hospitality, you invite friends to visit. But they seem not to share your eagerness. There may be any number of reasons, not all of which are reflections on you as host or on the accommodations. And consider this: They may be doing you a favor. PAGE F1 
 TREKKING THE MUD AND MUCK
 For decades, starting in the late 19th century, county officials spent millions of dollars trying to drain it. In the 1940s, the military bombed it, assessing the fall of munitions. But the ooze and earth of the Big Bog prevailed, and now people pay to tour what was once considered just a wasteland. PAGE F1 
 INTO THE WOODLANDS
 It has gone from being the nation's second-most-popular inland resort to obscurity, threatened by a dam project, only to rebound as one of the most used sites of the National Park Service. But because it is also one of the least heralded, the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area, just 72 miles from Lower Manhattan, may be unknown to you. PAGE F8 
 Havens: Livingston Manor, N.Y. F3 
 Relocating a House F2 
 EDITORIAL
 JUSTICE 5, BRUTALITY 4
 For years, President Bush has denied the protections of justice, democracy and plain human decency to the hundreds of men that he labeled ''unlawful enemy combatants'' and threw into never-ending detention. On Thursday, the Supreme Court turned back the most recent effort to subvert justice, with a stirring defense of habeas corpus. PAGE A28
 A DANGEROUS PLACE
 There is enormous confusion about what happened Tuesday night on the Pakistani border, but Pakistan's charges that American strikes killed 11 of its paramilitary troops must be fully investigated. The Bush administration also must do a lot more to salvage this relationship. PAGE A28
 ARE INSIDERS NECESSARY?
 Both presidential candidates have now been bruised by talking the talk of reform while walking the walk of old Washington habits. PAGE A28
 OP-ED
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 Lately, there always seems to be at least one food-safety crisis in the headlines -- most recently the attack of the killer tomatoes. The declining credibility of U.S. food regulation has even led to a crisis in relations with South Korea. How did we find ourselves back in the world of Upton Sinclair's ''The Jungle''? It began with ideology. It devolved into crony capitalism, with agencies that are supposed to protect the public serving the food industry. The ironic thing is that deference to the food industry isn't just bad for consumers, it's bad for business. PAGE A29
 DAVID BROOKS
 Barack Obama's education remarks give the impression of a candidate who wants to be for big change without actually incurring the political costs inherent in that enterprise. PAGE A29

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (84%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); HAMAS (75%); EARTHQUAKES (75%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (75%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); CHILDREN (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (67%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (67%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (62%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (61%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (61%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); APPEALS (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (77%); SICHUAN, CHINA (57%) CHINA (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); TAIWAN (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



313 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Airline Economies: A Few Modest Proposals

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Readers of nytimes.com were invited to suggest ways that airlines and passengers could deal with rising fuel prices. Here are some ideas from readers who identified themselves. 
 You know what would save money, here in Denver and elsewhere? Don't have eight different airlines that all fly to Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, every day, at 10 or 12 different times. Fly full planes. Convenience isn't everything, and I would think that only flying a few airlines two or three times a day to each destination would fill those planes and stop wasting so much fuel. J. Nelson, Boulder, Colo.
 Remove the overhead bins. This will force passengers to carry only what will fit under the seat, eliminating the weight of the bins and the wait for all those ''smart travelers'' who carry on instead of checking in. Thomas Gradie, Richmond, Calif.
 Faster turnover at the gates would save money and might be achieved by boarding the plane from back to front. I, and I suspect others, would give up ''seat choice'' in exchange for less standing and waiting in a narrow jetway or aisle while one person locks up the boarding to juggle luggage in the overhead rack.
 Ken Davis, Silver Spring, Md.
 How about charging a minimum per seat, then weigh each passenger with his/her total carry-on and luggage, and charge a reasonable amount for each pound over 200 (an arbitrary figure)? 
 Joe Vesely, Deerfield, Mass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); DENVER, CO, USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); COLORADO, USA (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); MARYLAND, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



314 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 613 words

PERSON: Harlan Cleveland 

HEADLINE: Harlan Cleveland, Diplomat and Scholar, Dies at 90

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Harlan Cleveland, a former president of the University of Hawaii and an American ambassador to NATO who pressed for nuclear arms control and strengthening of the United Nations, died May 30 near his home in Sterling, Va. He was 90.
 His daughter Melantha Cleveland confirmed the death. 
 After a long, complex diplomatic career, Mr. Cleveland became president of the University of Hawaii in 1969. In his five years there, he successfully lobbied legislators to finance a new law school and expand the existing medical school from a two-year program to four years. 
 Because he had been ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, students perceived Mr. Cleveland as a militarist. He surprised them in 1969, after American forces began bombing inside Cambodia, by canceling classes so they could hold discussions about an end to the Vietnam War and by sitting with them for one day of a six-day protest.
 A distant relation of two presidents, Grover Cleveland and Martin Van Buren, Mr. Cleveland had public service ''in his genes,'' his daughter Melantha said. His maternal grandfather, Harold Sheffield Van Buren, had been an American diplomat in France. 
 Diplomatic relations with France were difficult for Mr. Cleveland after President Lyndon B. Johnson named him NATO ambassador in 1965. The next year, the French president, Charles de Gaulle, pulled France out of the alliance and banned it from French soil. Mr. Cleveland organized the move to Brussels and called for NATO to develop a satellite communications system to bypass French territory.
 While at NATO, Mr. Cleveland also pressed for a halt to nuclear proliferation. He envisioned ''a world structure,'' he said, in which nonnuclear nations ''will have assurances that existing nuclear powers will come to their rescue.'' He also advocated expanding peace-keeping duties for the United Nations.
 Mr. Cleveland wrote 12 books and dozens of articles, most on world affairs. In his 1966 book, ''The Obligations of Power: American Diplomacy in the Search for Peace'' (Harper & Row), he wrote that ''the object of American foreign policy is to place our power in the service of a world of diversity.''
 Born in New York on Jan. 19, 1918, Mr. Cleveland grew up in Madison, Wis., one of four children of Stanley Cleveland and Marian Van Buren. His father was the Episcopal chaplain at the University of Wisconsin.
 In addition to his daughter Melantha, Mr. Cleveland is survived by his wife of 66 years, the former Lois Burton; a sister, Anne White; a son, Alan; another daughter, Zoe Cleveland; and a grandchild. 
 Mr. Cleveland graduated from Princeton in 1938 with a degree in international politics. As a Rhodes scholar, he was studying at Oxford when World War II broke out. 
 Blinded in one eye by a childhood accident, he was ineligible for military service. Instead, Mr. Cleveland became an economic warfare specialist in Washington, arranging aid to liberated regions in Italy and China. After the war, he was an assistant director of the Marshall Plan, which financed European recovery.
 Mr. Cleveland's varied career also included being publisher of The Reporter magazine; dean of the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University; and an assistant secretary of state in the Kennedy administration. After being president of the University of Hawaii, he became the first dean of the Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs at the University of Minnesota.
 Mr. Cleveland sought to cause ripples. 
 ''When I was very young, I learned something I hope is true,'' he told The New York Times in 1965, ''that if I wiggled my little finger it would affect the farthest star.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harlan Cleveland (PHOTOGRAPH BY HUBERT H. HUMPHREY INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); VIETNAM WAR (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); LOBBYING (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (91%); UNITED NATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (77%) HAWAII, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); BELGIUM (58%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



315 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 5349 words

HEADLINE: Museum and Gallery Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 MARK DI SUVERO In this age of sculptures of mindlessly enlarged recognizable objects that are all size but no scale, it is great to be reminded that big can also be abstract, and that abstract at its best requires scale. Case in point is ''Lowell's Ocean'' (2006), right, Mark di Suvero's latest exercise in well-tempered largeness at the Paula Cooper Gallery. Ms. Cooper may not have built her elegantly cavernous ground floor to accommodate Mr. di Suvero -- an artist with whom she has worked on and off for most of her long career -- but sometimes it sure looks that way. His works fare so well in this setting that it has occasionally been hard to tell if the art or the space is doing the heavy lifting. 
 With his latest effort there is no question: ''Lowell's Ocean'' is among the great works of his career. It's an outstanding example of his ability to assemble huge steel elements in ways that are both playful and majestic, intimate and immense. The work consists of an enormous tripodlike structure (though with four legs) made of leaning and crisscrossing steel I-beams (a di Suvero signature). Resting high within its angles is a double spiral that has been cut from one immense sheet of steel and then popped into three dimensions to form two open, scrolling domes that operate in the gap between drawing-in-space and architecture. 
 Perhaps the greatest Abstract Expressionist sculptor, Mr. di Suvero is also an anti-Minimalist: he confronts us with complex, even overbearing forms, whose economy of means emerges as we look. (Through June 30, 534 West 21st Street, Chelsea, 212-255-1105, paulacoopergallery.com.) ROBERTA SMITH 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'ASA AMES: OCCUPATION SCULPTURING,' through Sept. 14. This first show devoted to the American sculptor Asa Ames (1823-1851) is a gem. Its eight carved and painted wood portraits -- roughly two-thirds of the work of Ames's brief maturity -- introduce an artist who translated the style of self-taught American portrait painters into three dimensions, imbuing their artificiality with the sense of suspended life found in 19th-century photography. A crowded, wonderfully bizarre photograph that Ames orchestrated of himself, his work and a friend is a poignant tribute to his ambition. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'DARGERISM: CONTEMPORARY ARTISTS AND HENRY DARGER,' through Sept. 21. The great Outsider Henry Darger (1892-1973) was completely unknown as an artist during his own lifetime. Now his epic adventure, ''The Story of the Vivian Girls, in What Is Known as the Realms of the Unreal, of the Glandeco-Angelinnian War Storm, Caused by the Child Slave Rebellion'' is famous and a big influence on mainstream artists. This intriguing exhibition presents 12 of Darger's gorgeous, bizarre watercolors and works by 11 contemporary artists who have been inspired by him, including Justine Kurland, Trenton Doyle Hancock and, most surprisingly, Paula Rego. (See above.) (Ken Johnson)
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'EARL CUNNINGHAM'S AMERICA,' through Aug. 31. The folk artist Earl Cunningham (1893-1977) romanticized the American landscape without hyperbole. Cunningham didn't suffuse his paintings with divine light or invoke manifest destiny, like the Hudson River School artists; he simply showed the many small interactions of the Atlantic coastal ecosystem -- a delicate balance of dock workers, harbor pilots, fishermen, farmers, waterfowl and American Indian tribes. Some 50 of his cheerful, intensely colored paintings are on view at the Lincoln Square branch of the American Folk Art Museum. Whether you think of Cunningham as a folk artist or a Modernist, his paintings display an intuitive grace. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue between 65th and 66th Streets, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
 ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'ARDESHIR MOHASSESS,' through Aug. 3. Given that his work is found in newspapers and magazines as well as on gallery walls, Westerners might tend to think of Ardeshir Mohassess, in the simplest terms, as Iran's answer to Saul Steinberg. His drawings have been published in The New York Times as well as in The Nation and Playboy. Yet they are more ambiguous than typical op-ed illustrations and more subtle than most political cartoons. Some 70 of his works are on view in a show assembled by the Iranian-born artists Shirin Neshat and Nicky Nodjoumi. In Mr. Mohassess's drawings the coded beauty of traditional Persian art comes face to face with the ugliness of successive autocratic regimes. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Rosenberg)
 ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: JUN NGUYEN-HATSUSHIBA: 'VIETNAM: A MEMORIAL WORK,' through Aug. 3. In a dreamily allegorical video by this Vietnamese artist, six young men struggle to pedal and drag three pedicabs across the sandy and rocky bottom of a shallow sea. Unequipped with breathing apparatus, they periodically swim to the surface for air before resuming their Sisyphean task. Near the end they abandon their burdens and swim away, in a lovely image of submarine flight. (See above.) (Johnson)
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: '$;MURAKAMI,' through July 13. Bring the kids and the shopping-centered tweens. This survey of Takashi Murakami, the artist frequently called the Japanese Andy Warhol, has it all: immense, toylike sculptures; an animated cartoon that rivals Disney; and a fully functioning Louis Vuitton boutique (Brooklyn's first!) selling Murakami bags. But it also elucidates the trajectory of an artist who began by recycling Japanese popular culture and then gradually figured out how to go deeper, harnessing Japanese traditions of painting, craft and spirituality. The art-commerce, high-low conundrums are fun, but the steady improvement in the paintings is the real heart of the matter. Along with the animated cartoons, which should please aesthetes of all ages, there is a moral component as well. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Smith) 
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'ROCOCO: THE CONTINUING CURVE, 1730-2008,' through July 6. This enthralling show has an extraordinarily high sumptuousness quotient. It explores the 18th-century Rococo style and its legacy, with a focus on furniture, ceramic vases, jewelry, mirrors, snuff boxes and other sorts of domestic ware. It includes works from most of the countries that Rococo reached, from Germany to Guatemala; takes in 19th-century Rococo revivals; and pursues the spirit if not the actual style of Rococo into the 20th century and beyond. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Johnson)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'BILL WOOD'S BUSINESS,' through Sept. 7. Bill Wood Jr. was a commercial photographer who operated in Fort Worth from 1937 to 1970. Twenty years ago Diane Keaton, the film actress, photographer and photography collector, purchased 20,000 negatives left over from his business, and now 210 of those images are on display in this fascinating, compact exhibition. Mr. Wood photographed babies, pets, weddings, dead people in their coffins, retirement parties and recitals. For local businesses he shot grocery displays, new cars, new houses, oven knobs and prayer books. All his images are lucid and banal yet curiously affecting -- often inadvertently funny, sad or strange. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Johnson)
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'ACTION/ABSTRACTION: POLLOCK, DE KOONING AND AMERICAN ART, 1940-1976,' through Sept. 21. With the help of some stupendous paintings and a beautiful installation, the same old story of postwar American painting's glory is told a new way: through the rivalry between its most prominent advocates, the art critics Clement Greenberg and Harold Rosenberg and through their intellectual milieu. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Smith)
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'WARHOL'S JEWS: TEN PORTRAITS RECONSIDERED,' through Aug. 3. In 1980 Andy Warhol produced a series of portraits of famous Jews, including Sigmund Freud, Gertrude Stein and the Marx Brothers. When they appeared at the Jewish Museum that year, the critics hated them. But they were warmly received by Jewish audiences when they were exhibited in museums and Jewish institutions around the country. Viewing them in this return engagement, it is hard to imagine anyone growing very excited for or against such bland, posterlike images. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Johnson)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'FRAMING A CENTURY: MASTER PHOTOGRAPHERS, 1840-1940,' through Sept. 1. Organized by Malcolm Daniel, curator of the Met's photography department, this show examines the medium's first great century through extensive looks at 13 innovators. It proceeds majestically from stillness to motion, from landscape and ruin to city, from people frozen in studio poses to people on the move. William Henry Fox Talbot is at one end, Brassai is at the other. All used the camera to find bigness in themselves, in the new medium and, above all, in the world. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
 THE MET: 'JEFF KOONS ON THE ROOF,' through Oct. 26. Panoramic views of Central Park and the Manhattan skyline from the Cantor Roof Garden are distracting, but the three sculptures now on display there are well worth visiting. Each is a greatly enlarged, glossily lacquered, stainless-steel representation of something small: a toy dog made of twisted-together balloons; a Valentine heart wrapped in red foil; and the silhouette of Piglet from a Winnie the Pooh coloring book randomly colored, as if by a young child. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE MET: 'MEDIEVAL AND RENAISSANCE TREASURES FROM THE VICTORIA AND ALBERT MUSEUM,' through Aug. 17. This beautiful exhibition presents a diverse assortment of 34 small, choice objects from one of the world's great repositories of European decorative arts. The show-stopper is an eight-inch tall Virgin and Child made of boxwood by the German sculptor Veit Stoss around 1500-05. The carving is done with such tenderness and delicacy that it seems as though the wood had been animated by some magical spirit. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE MET: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2009. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'ILLUMINATING THE MEDIEVAL HUNT,' through Aug. 10. As part of a conservation effort, the Morgan Library's 14th-century hunting manuscript ''Le Livre de la Chasse'' has been temporarily unbound, affording viewers a rare opportunity to study the individual pages. Fifty illustrated leaves are on view in this show, along with other manuscripts and printed books from the 11th to the 16th century. Gaston Phoebus's authoritative text examines the characteristics of various wild animals, explores different methods of hunting and provides instruction on caring for hounds. ''Le Livre de la Chasse'' was written for medieval aristocrats, but it will appeal to contemporary athletes, nature lovers and dog owners. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'PHILIP GUSTON: WORKS ON PAPER,' through Aug. 31. This enthralling exhibition of 100 works, mostly drawings, tracks Guston's evolution from his Abstract Expressionist efforts of the 1950s to his darkly comic and hugely influential representational pictures of the 1970s. While he went through several radical stylistic changes over those three decades, a determination to work from basic instincts and primal feelings runs throughout, giving the show a powerful autobiographical momentum. (See above.) (Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'GLOSSOLALIA: LANGUAGES OF DRAWING,' through July 7. The most exciting drawing show the Museum of Modern Art has produced in years presents about 100 works by two groups: self-taught outsiders and conventionally trained professionals who have been inspired by outsider art. Outsiders like Henry Darger, James Castle and Bill Traylor are interspersed amongst insiders like Louise Bourgeois, H. C. Westermann and Jim Nutt, and all are linked by the drive to work from personal, deeply internal imaginative resources. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART AND P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'TAKE YOUR TIME: OLAFUR ELIASSON,' through June 30. Near the end of a decade crammed with junk-art collectibles geared to junk-bond budgets, we get bare walls, open space, light and color in this survey of work by an artist, born in Denmark in 1967, who is well known for creating immaterialist magic through bare-bones means: literally, in some cases, mist and mirrors. As optically enchanting as the results are, though, in the end we are left wanting more from Mr. Eliasson's less. (212) 708-9400, moma.org; 22-25 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Holland Cotter)
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: 'THE 183RD ANNUAL: AN INVITATIONAL EXHIBITION OF CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN ART,' through Sept. 7. If you emerged from the Whitney Biennial wondering where all the painting went, don't despair. At this exhibition abstract painting reigns, sculpture is small and nonthreatening, and photography is practically nonexistent. It's not quite the art world memorialized in the current show ''Action/Abstraction'' at the Jewish Museum, but the critics Clement Greenberg and Harold Rosenberg would find plenty to argue about. This year's show is a nonmember affair. (Alternate years are members only.) 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Rosenberg)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'GUSTAV KLIMT: THE RONALD S. LAUDER AND SERGE SABARSKY COLLECTIONS,' through June 30. The first New York museum show devoted exclusively to this Viennese master is less a coherent Klimt exhibition than a Klimt-o-rama. The main draw is a veritable retrospective of the drawings, erotic and otherwise, and a smattering of paintings starring the new-in-town, gold-on-gold ''Adele Bloch-Bauer I.'' Also here: a photo mural of sections of Klimt's most famous painted mural, the ''Beethoven Frieze''; a period room; photographs and personal effects, including one of the artist's signature caftans; and piped-in music, all written in Vienna of course, and available for purchase on CD. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'WIENER WERKSTaTTE JEWELRY,' through Sept. 1. Founded in 1903, the Wiener Werkstatte, or Vienna Workshops, set out to prove that the modern world still needed fine craftsmanship and good design. Its first product was jewelry, of which this stunning exhibition presents 40 gorgeous examples. Works in gold, silver and semi-precious stones by the workshop's co-founders, Josef Hoffmann and Koloman Moser, and others -- including, most notably, Dagobert Peche -- magically blur the line between personal ornament and miniature sculpture. (See above.) (Johnson)
 NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'TOMMA ABTS,' through June 29. The small, hard-edged abstractions by this German-born painter, who works in London and was the 2006 Turner Prize winner, are not showy, but they are intensely absorbing. Basic, formal elements like stripes, arcs, circles, planes and polygons are carefully layered, juxtaposed and interwoven in all sorts of subtly eccentric ways. Ms. Abts's colors are muted but seductive, and she adds highlights and shadows, creating mysterious, three-dimensional illusions. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)
 NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'DOUBLE ALBUM: DANIEL GUZMAN AND STEVE SHEARER,' through July 6. This intermittently interesting two-part exhibition presents two midcareer artists who work in various mediums and share a fascination with male adolescence and classic rock. Daniel Guzman's recent large-scale drawings combining mythic, tribal images and weirdly distorted, fragmented human figures are elegantly surrealistic, and his video of a Pied Piper-like character leading three other men in a dance along a crowded city sidewalk is delightful. Steve Shearer's best works are finely made drawings and woozy, Symbolist-style paintings of men and boys with long, rocker-style hair. (See above.) (Johnson)
 NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY, HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES LIBRARY: 'MONUMENTAL FRANCE: THE PHOTOGRAPHS OF EDOUARD BALDUS' AND SKETCHES ON GLASS: CLICHES-VERRE FROM THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY,' through June 28. This pair of exhibitions focuses on the experimental period after the birth of photography (the 1850s through the 1870s). Film had not yet been invented, but glass-plate and paper negatives allowed artists to micromanage the camera's performance or to bypass it entirely. ''Monumental France: The Photographs of Edouard Baldus'' gathers 38 artisanal prints of French architectural landmarks. ''Sketches on Glass: Cliches-Verre From the New York Public Library'' presents prints made with hand-drawn glass plates on light-sensitive paper (no camera required). Together these shows reveal that artists in mid-19th-century France blurred the distinction between the photograph and the unique object. Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street, (212) 930-0830, nypl.org. (Rosenberg)
 * P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'ARCTIC HYSTERIA: NEW ART FROM FINLAND,' through Sept. 15. Urgent emotions and mystical fantasies animate otherwise coolly controlled works in this terrific 16-artist show. See especially Veli Grano's heartbreaking documentary portrait of a Finnish couple who believe that their unborn child was taken by aliens to live on a planet in the Sirius star system, and Salla Tykka's dreamy short film in which a young female voyeur is overwhelmed by the sight of an athletic, bare-chested young man spinning a lasso in a suburban house. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
 THE STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'FLOW,' through June 29. Afropolitanism is the modish tag for recent work by young African artists. What unites them is a shared view of Africa, less as a place than as a concept, a cultural force -- one that runs through the world the way a gulf stream runs through an ocean, part of the whole, but with its own tides and temperatures. This idea, or something like it, lies behind ''Flow,'' a fine-textured survey of 20 artists who, with a few exceptions, were born in Africa after 1970 but who now live in Europe or the United States. The show is a worthy successor to ''Freestyle'' and ''Frequency,'' benchmark surveys of new African-American art. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Cotter)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'POLAROIDS: MAPPLETHORPE,' through Sept. 7. During his 20s, between 1970 and 1975, Robert Mapplethorpe made more than 1,500 photographs with Polaroid cameras. This may surprise viewers who are more familiar with his posed and polished studio photography of the '80s. ''Polaroids: Mapplethorpe'' offers about 100 examples drawn largely from the Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation, including portraits, still lifes, erotica and works that fall into more than one of these categories. All the themes of Mapplethorpe's mature work -- the body as a site of pain and pleasure, the ideals of classical beauty, the celebration of alternative lifestyles -- are here, but rendered in a more spontaneous medium. (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)
 Galleries: Uptown
 JAKE & DINOS CHAPMAN: 'LITTLE DEATH MACHINES' The first New York solo show since 1997 by these British masters of transgressive obnoxiousness is surprisingly tame. It presents machinelike assemblages that look as though they were made by a demented, sex-obsessed inventor in his grungy basement workshop. The comically nasty contraptions seem to have been cobbled together from ordinary hardware. The surprise is that they have been cast in bronze and delicately colored by shiny paints. L&M Arts, 45 East 78th Street, (212) 861-0020, lmgallery.com, through July 3show has been extended-g. (Johnson)
 ROY LICHTENSTEIN: 'GIRLS' This superb exhibition presents 12 of Lichtenstein's early paintings of the female creatures otherwise known as women. Putting the pop back in Pop Art, they come across as hot flashes of composition, America, humor and color made one by pictorial intelligence. Consider them fuel-efficient primers in the causes and effects of the grand fiction that is painting, conveyed in a flash of pleasure compounded by understanding. Gagosian, 980 Madison Avenue, near 77th Street, (212) 744-2313, gagosian.com, through June 28. (Smith)
 Galleries: 57th Street
 ROGER BROWN: 'THE AMERICAN LANDSCAPE' One of the Chicago Imagists who came of age in the 1960s -- a group that included Jim Nutt, Ed Paschke and Gladys Nilsson -- Roger Brown (1941-97) created expansive, curiously patterned, mysteriously luminous landscapes and townscapes that look as if they were made by a self-taught visionary. This exhibition of paintings dating from 1971 to 1991 will delight his fans and should be a revelation for people unfamiliar with his work. D C Moore Gallery, 724 Fifth Avenue, (212) 247-2111, dcmooregallery.com, through June 20. (Johnson)
 JESS: 'PAINTINGS AND PASTE-UPS' For anyone unfamiliar with Jess (1923-2004), the visionary artist who emerged from the San Francisco Beat scene in the 1950s, this compact 40-year survey will be a good introduction. It includes big, cosmic collages made under the influence of Max Ernst and mysterious, extraordinarily thickly painted pictures of scientific instruments that are among the oddest and most original artworks of the post-World War II era. Tibor de Nagy, 724 Fifth Avenue, (212) 262-5050, tibordenagy.com, through July 31. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 ZHANG HUAN: 'BLESSINGS' An erstwhile Chinese performance artist, now working with the help of well-trained assistants in his Shanghai studio, shows two gigantic works. An enormous rag doll covered with whole cowhides conforms to the main festivalist-art formula: take a familiar form, make it really big, use unexpected material already charged with meaning. A Communist-era photograph is rendered enormous in incense ash on tall blocks of ash. Along with smaller photo-based works that ruin fantastic antique doors, these pieces voice an all-too-common mantra: ''I'm doing this because I can hire someone else to do it.'' Pace Wildenstein, 534 West 25th Street, (212) 929-7000, and 545 West 22nd Street, (212) 989-4258, through July 25. (Smith)
 JESSICA JACKSON HUTCHINS: 'THE EXPONENT OF EARTH (YOU MAKE ME...)' Although not without its flaws, this show signals a great leap forward in this artist's determination to make ceramic sculpture while treating clay as just another material. Her bases have expanded into double-tiered structures of found furniture augmented with eccentric growthlike forms of plaster and collage. The works have an eruptive energy that blends the emotions and motifs of domesticity into decrepit, yet lovely acts of aggression. The problem is that the bases sometimes make the ceramic vessels seem a little superfluous. Derek Eller Gallery, 615 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-6411, derekeller.com, through June 21. (Smith)
 ANISH KAPOOR Two dazzling if somewhat thin exhibitions of new work at the Gladstone Gallery's two spaces reaffirm this Indian-born, London-based artist's ability to compress ideas derived from Minimalism, Earthworks and his own multicultural background into finite yet experientially complex objects as smart as they are seductive. In one show, four polished steel forms wreak havoc with spatial logic; in the other, three works have red insides, outsides or both, while an enormous pocked piece dissents from the general smoothness, introducing notions of blood and violence. Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9300, through June 21; 530 West 21st Street, (212) 206-7606, gladstonegallery.com, through Aug. 15. (Smith)
 'WHO'S AFRAID OF JASPER JOHNS?' Demonically aerobic for the brain and eye, this rambunctious show, orchestrated by the art dealer Gavin Brown and the artist Urs Fischer, conflates two group exhibitions and several decades (but mostly the 1980s and since), styles, art markets and notions of transgression. Highly site-specific, it may also be one of the last words in appropriation art, institutional critique and artistic intervention, not to mention post-modern photographs and, especially, wallpaper. Nearly every juxtaposition tells a story, one that is up to you to devise. The network of references unleashed here defies any visual or interpretive cartography, which may make its exploration all the more worthwhile. Tony Shafrazi Gallery, 544 West 26th Street, (212) 274-9300, tonyshafrazigallery.com, through July 12. (Smith) 
 CHRISTOPHER WOOL So seemingly effortless as to be irreverent, Mr. Wool's newest grisaille paintings feature spray-can lines smeared into feather-light De Kooning-like brushstrokes. The layering of studio and street -- of macho yet ghostly, half-meant flourishes and lax, abstract graffiti -- has an undeniable liveliness. But it helps that the paintings alternate with large silk-screen prints whose mixings of computer drawing, painting, Benday dots and some cutting and pasting seem more representative of Mr. Wool's barbed devotion to his medium. Luhring Augustine, 531 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9100, luhringaugustine.com, through June 21. (Smith)
 Galleries: Other
 OTTO MUEHL: 'TEMPLE DESTROYER' Mr. Muehl, the well-known Viennese Actionist, is examined from a new angle, through the silk-screens and paintings he has made since the late 1960s. Blending expressionism, Pop and politics in different ratios, they tackle world leaders, religion and, at their most Rabelaisian, the Bible. They borrow from Andy Warhol, Op Art and possibly Indian art but for the most part have their own pleasures, integrity and purpose. Maccarone, 630 Greenwich Street, at Morton Street, West Village, (212) 431-4977, maccarone.net, through June 28. (Smith)
 'NEW YORK COOL: PAINTING AND SCULPTURE FROM THE N.Y.U. ART COLLECTION' This exhibition subjects the late '50s and early '60s -- a period normally seen as a transitional phase between Abstract Expressionism and Pop, Pollock and Warhol -- to intense scrutiny. It reintroduces minor characters like Seymour Lipton, Robert Goodnough and Conrad Marca-Relli, and exposes hidden sides of well-known artists (Miriam Schapiro's early geometric abstraction). It reminds us that the art world of that time was a multifarious scene shaped by artists beyond Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart, through July 19. (Rosenberg)
 Last Chance
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'UTAGAWA: MASTERS OF THE JAPANESE PRINT, 1770-1900' This fascinating show tells the story of a group of artists who dominated the woodblock print business in Japan for much of the 19th century. Not everything in it is a masterpiece, but among its 95 prints are stunning portraits of actors, geishas and warriors; colorful retellings of old myths; views of contemporary urban life; and gorgeous, poetically captivating landscapes. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Johnson)
 RUDOLF DE CRIGNIS: 'PAINTINGS FROM 1992 TO 2006' Until his death at age 58 in 2006, Mr. De Crignis was quietly proving that the old dog of monochrome painting could be taught some new tricks. With layers of delicately applied colors that form soft, shifting fields of blue, green or gray while hovering ambiguously between matter and light, his work celebrates the unalterable mutability of experience. In this it reminds us that every second counts. Peter Blum Chelsea, 526 West 29th Street, (212) 244-6055, peterblumgallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 'DEVOTIO MODERNO: JOE COLEMAN/NORTHERN PRIMITIVES' Joe Coleman is a darkly comic illustrator with a cultish following whose paintings invite comparison to Hieronymus Bosch and Pieter Bruegel, so this exhibition's concept of bringing together his works and some Northern Renaissance paintings makes sense. But what emerges most conspicuously is the difference between the religious vision of the older works and Mr. Coleman's self-absorption and showy transgressiveness. Dickinson, 19 East 66th Street, Manhattan, (212) 772-8083, simondickinson.com; closes on Sunday. (Johnson)
 LOUISE DESPONT: 'THE PLANT LIFE OF SAINTS' A new gallery starts well with the solo debut of Louise Despont, artist, filmmaker and would-be visionary. Her geometric and foliate patterns, usually symmetrical, fill antique graph-paper ledgers with folk-art verve; her sculptures bring to mind early Carl Andre railway-tie sculptures supplemented with choice thrift-shop finds. The best impression is made by two short animations that give the drawings' patterns a chaste abandon. The antique appearance might be reconsidered, but promise is evident. Nicelle Beauchene Gallery, 163 Eldridge Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 375-8043. nicellebeauchene.com; closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 JAPAN SOCIETY: 'THE GENIUS OF JAPANESE LACQUER: MASTERWORKS BY SHIBATA ZESHIN' In Japan, before there was plastic, there was lacquer. Shiny, waterproof and lightweight, it made an excellent coating for wooden cups, bowls, utensils and food storage containers. In the hands of a skilled, ingenious artisan like Shibata Zeshin (1807-91) it was a high art. This beautiful show presents almost 75 objects -- many dumbfoundingly sumptuous -- and paintings by this man, considered the greatest of all Japanese lacquer artists. 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org; closes on Sunday. (Johnson)
 FAUSTO MELOTTI Moving freely among plaster, ceramics and metal, the Italian artist Fausto Melotti (1901-86) defied the convention of the sculptor invested in a single medium. His work has been linked to the cagelike Surrealist constructions of Alberto Giacometti, the early wire sculptures of Lucio Fontana, the paintings of Giorgio de Chirico and even the playful mobiles of Alexander Calder. The first major Melotti retrospective in this country, organized by the independent curator and art adviser Elena Geuna, fills two floors of the Acquavella Galleries town house. Melotti's work unites disparate strains of 20th-century Italian art: the Futurist embrace of modernity, the metaphysical yearnings of the Surrealists and the material curiosity of Arte Povera. Acquavella Galleries, 18 East 79th Street, Manhattan, (212) 734-6300, acquavellagalleries.com; closes on Friday. (Rosenberg)
 ROBERT THERRIEN One of the most transporting experiences to be had in Chelsea now is an installation of greatly enlarged metal folding chairs and card tables in this Los Angeles sculptor's show. Wandering under the eight-foot-high tabletops and among lamppost-size chair and table legs, you feel like a 3-year old. There are other much enlarged domestic objects in other rooms, but nothing as magical as the giant folding furniture. Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 741-1111, gagosian.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); PAINTING (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



316 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'THE HIRED MAN'; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: What Do the Simple Folk Do? They Toil and Sing

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
You can almost smell the heather in ''The Hired Man,'' a chamber musical at the 59E59 Theaters that's part of the Brits Off Broadway festival. Set in the rolling hills of Cumbria, this intimate show from the 1980s is a far cry from the bigger, better-known, Broadway-devouring British musicals of that era. No whirling turntable piled with flag-waving French students. No masked man scurrying around the smoky bowels of the Paris Opera, fiddling with the light fixtures. Just the small victories and bitter losses of simple folk set against the pleasures and pastimes of the country.
 The virtues of ''The Hired Man'' are small-scale and traditional. The story is a rural family saga beginning at the turn of the 20th century and moving through the turbulent years of the Great War. First produced in 1984 at the Nuffield Theater in Southampton, it had a five-month run in the West End (produced by Andrew Lloyd Webber). The current production, directed by Daniel Buckroyd, comes from the New Perspectives Theater, a Nottingham company dedicated to bringing theater to the communities of the East Midlands, with an emphasis on material that reflects the audience's own experience. 
 Based on a 1969 novel by Melvyn Bragg, the musical features a book by Mr. Bragg -- Anglophiles might know him from ITV's ''South Bank Show,'' the arts program that was a staple on Bravo in the long-gone pre-''reality'' television days -- and a score by Howard Goodall, whose resume includes a lot of film work and the themes to a number of well-known British television series (''Blackadder'' and ''Mr. Bean'' among them).
 As that suggests, Mr. Goodall has a natural facility for pleasant melody and an affection for traditional song structures. The ample score for ''The Hired Man'' is infused with the sounds of British folk music and features numerous rousing choral numbers in which the rural folk celebrate the manly pleasures of work or hunting or drinking. (Later they lament the waste of war.) There are also any number of tender ballads in which the characters assess their failures and losses, or savor life's quiet satisfactions.
 It's a respectable score (despite lyrics that often bloom with cliches), but hardly an exciting or innovative one. The same could be said for this unfashionably sincere musical as a whole. But at least it offers New York audiences the allure of the seriously unfamiliar. New musicals these days tend to be big, brash, loud, tongue-in-cheek. ''The Hired Man'' is none of these, for sure. If it's splashy fun you're looking for, look elsewhere.
 The story follows the fortunes of the Tallentire boys: the title character, an itinerant farm laborer named John (a fervent Richard Colvin); his wayward, pleasure-loving brother Isaac (Stuart Ward); and the coal-mining Seth (David Stothard).
 The first act focuses on the troubled marriage of John and Emily (Claire Sundin), who have moved to the village of Crossbridge in the fells. John's dedication to his farming leaves him little time to spend with his young wife and new child, May. Lonely and disappointed in the limitations of her life, Emily is warmed by the attentions of Jackson (Simon Pontin), the broody son of John's boss. 
 The second act covers a much greater wealth of incident, rather too much. (Mr. Buckroyd's economical staging gets a little cramped here.) As it begins we discover that John has given up his beloved farm work for mining, presumably to move the family away from the evil influence of Jackson. Meanwhile Seth is leading a movement to unionize the miners.
 A family squabble arises when John and Emily's son, Harry (Lee Foster), announces he wants to go ''down the mines'' too, to his mother's dismay. But soon the brothers are all off to fight the Germans, with Harry following shortly after, breaking his mother's heart all over again. Not everyone will survive.
 Most of the music-making comes from the musical director at the piano, Richard Reeday, whose playing is lively and superb throughout. (Performers add fiddle and trumpet accents, and Jana Zielonka plays keyboards offstage.) The singing is mostly strong, and the big ensemble numbers all but pin you to your seat, even if there are a few too many in which all the actors face front, eyes shining, and ravish us with throbbing climaxes. Some of the performances could use a little more depth -- Ms. Sundin's emotionally central role as Emily, for example -- but it is nice to hear singing unmediated by electronics.
 It was soothing too to soak in the show's tweedy atmosphere on a sultry summer afternoon. Hearing the talk of wet trenches, lonely mountains and sleety mornings, and gazing at the bleak backdrop of gray mountains, I felt as if I were basking in a big blast of aesthetic air conditioning.
 THE HIRED MAN
 Book by Melvyn Bragg, adapted from his novel; music and lyrics by Howard Goodall; directed by Daniel Buckroyd; musical director, Richard Reeday; designed by Juliet Shillingford; lighting by Mark Dymock; production manager, Mandy Ivory-Castile; choreography by Katie Howell; stage manager, Amy Kaskeski; consulting director, Simon Green. Presented by New Perpectives Theater Company, Mr. Buckroyd, artistic director; Chris Kirkwood, general manager. At the 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan; (212) 279-4200. Through June 29. Running time: 2 hours 30 minutes. 
 WITH: Richard Colvin (John), Lee Foster (Joe/Harry), Katie Howell (Sally/May),. Simon Pontin (Jackson), David Stothard (Seth), Claire Sundin (Emily), Stuart Ward (Isaac) and Andrew Wheaton (Pennington). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, David Stothard, Stuart Ward, Lee Foster, Richard Colvin, Andrew Wheaton and Simon Pontin in ''The Hired Man'' at the 59E59 Theaters, part of the Brits Off Broadway festival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRISTRAM KENTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (78%); MUSIC (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (57%) NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (79%); FRANCE (57%); UNITED STATES (56%)

TITLE: Hired Man, The (Play)>; Hired Man, The (Play)>

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



317 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan and China Reach Deal on Weekend Charter Flights

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Representatives of China and Taiwan agreed Friday to start weekend charter flights next month between the two sides, taking the first step toward establishing regular transportation links that could ease relations. 
 The representatives also agreed Thursday to establish permanent offices in each other's capitals to help coordinate discussions about closer relations.
 The offices could reduce the chances of misunderstanding if tensions were to arise over issues like military maneuvers. 
 The agreements came during negotiations over how to strengthen the economic relationship between China and Taiwan, which the government in Beijing regards as a renegade province. The meetings began Thursday and are taking place between so-called unofficial negotiating bodies. They are the highest-level talks between China and Taiwan since 1999.
 Representing Taiwan is the Straits Exchange Foundation, which sent a 19-member delegation here.
 The charter flights between China and Taiwan, a thriving democracy of 23 million people off the coast of Fujian Province, would allow more mainland tourists to visit Taiwan each year and promote business travel. Although Taiwan is the biggest investor in China and many Taiwanese businesspeople live on the mainland, there are no direct commercial flights. Charter flights are limited to four holiday periods a year, for a total of 324 annual flights.
 President Ma Ying-jeou of Taiwan has said he would also like to begin regular commercial service by 2009.
 The agreement reached Friday says the service would start on July 4 and begin with 36 flights per weekend between various cities, according to Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency. That number could grow with demand. Chinese and Taiwanese airlines will each operate 18 flights.
 Mr. Ma, from the Kuomintang or Nationalist Party, was elected president on March 22 in a landslide victory on the platform of strengthening economic ties between China and Taiwan. Many Taiwanese say they believe that their economy has stagnated in recent years and that Mr. Ma's predecessor, Chen Shui-bian, failed to capitalize on the mainland's economic growth. 
 Mr. Chen, the Democratic Progressive Party candidate who was elected president in 2000, favored steps toward formal independence, a position that has caused growing anxiety among the Taiwanese public, Chinese leaders and American officials in recent years. 
 At the moment, many Taiwanese want neither formal independence nor reunification, but they desire warmer economic ties with the mainland. They are still aware, though, that the Chinese government maintains tactical missiles pointed at Taiwan.
 In a sign of an expected influx of mainland tourists, the legislative body in Taiwan passed a bill amendment on Thursday to allow the Chinese currency, the renminbi, to be exchanged in Taiwan. The Taiwanese government's Financial Supervisory Commission and the central bank are now expected to work out details of the currency exchange.
 The bill amendment and the mechanism to be worked out by the financial institutions are intended only to allow mainland tourists to exchange renminbi for Taiwanese dollars. There are no provisions for two-way convertibility between the currencies.
 Mr. Ma said last week in an interview with the Yomiuri Shimbun, a Japanese newspaper, that China would have to remove the missiles aimed at Taiwan as a precondition for real peace talks.
 On May 28, the chairman of the Kuomintang, Wu Poh-hsiung, met with President Hu Jintao of China in Beijing. They agreed to reopen talks between the Straits Exchange Foundation and its counterpart on the mainland, the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Strait. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR CHARTER SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); CURRENCIES (83%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); EXCHANGE RATES (74%); AIRLINES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



318 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; PHOTO-OP; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: Out of Gas

BYLINE: By CAMILO JOSE VERGARA. 
Camilo Jose Vergara is the recipient of a MacArthur Foundation ''genius'' grant in 2002, and a fellow at the New York Public Library, is the author of ''How the Other Half Worships.''

 BODY:
For the last three decades, I have photographed abandoned filling stations mostly in American ghettos. For me, they evoked the vision of the end of a gas-based world. In the beginning, this vision was largely confined to disadvantaged neighborhoods. Not anymore. Today, with gasoline prices at record levels, the fragility of a lifestyle, economy and culture dependent on fossil fuel is sensed by everyone, even the most comfortable among us. 
 I have often been amazed by the ways harsh and aggressive forms are taken over by the natural world. The gas stations and pumps that make modern life possible are among our most rationally planned buildings. Their function: get the customers to stop and fill their tanks, fast. And yet, how quickly filling stations disintegrate without constant maintenance. They lose their characteristic smell of oil and exhaust. Scavengers strip the pumps, revealing their hoses, belts, gears and electric motors. In some cases, trees grow out of the concrete; nature sings its song as the loud greens of the ailanthus trees, bushes and white flowers mix with the fading reds of the station walls.
Filling stations can be taken over in other ways, too. At the East Friendship Baptist Church in Detroit, a circular sign that used to showcase the name of an oil company was redone to say, ''Jesus Still Saves.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, South Broadway at Lester Terrace, Camden, N.J. 2007
top right, Eighth Avenue at Adams Street, Gary, Ind. 1997
 bottom right. Sykes and Son Tire Repair, Grand River Avenue at Mendota street, Detroit, 2002. Additional photos nytimes.com/opinion 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAS STATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GARY, IN, USA (77%) INDIANA, USA (77%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008



319 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Helping Jobless Youths

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Out of Sight,'' by Bob Herbert (column, June 10):
 America has more than one problem: soaring numbers of jobless youth and the need to save energy. By putting these two problems together, we may find solutions for both. 
 The lesson comes from history. Seventy-five years ago, Franklin D. Roosevelt took two crises -- a decayed environment and wide unemployment -- and combined them to form a single success: the Civilian Conservation Corps. In the C.C.C. three million young unemployed men dramatically improved the nation's infrastructure and public lands, combating erosion, planting millions of trees and in the process creating roads, park trails and bridges. 
 The C.C.C. did more than restore America's natural resources. It also gave young Americans living in poverty hope, opportunity and the chance to provide for their families. A major new national service initiative focusing on energy efficiency can do the same today.
 A Green/Clean Energy Corps, recruiting the young men and women Bob Herbert describes, can dramatically reduce our energy use, especially by retrofitting the homes and buildings that account for roughly 40 percent of carbon emissions. 
 In addition, through service to community and nation, these disconnected young people start on a pathway out of poverty and into family-sustaining jobs in the emerging green economy. This is already happening in youth service and conservation corps around the nation: in rural Montana, inner-city Baltimore, the Denver metro area, in Madison, Wis., and in Los Angeles.
 The result: formerly disconnected youth gain new idealism, civic engagement, leadership skills, hard job skills and the belief that they can make a difference while supporting themselves and their families.
 The Green/Clean Energy Corps can deliver win-win-win benefits: restoring our environment, revitalizing our low-income communities and creating reliable, confident, skilled citizens ready for career and family.
 Sally T. Prouty President and Chief Executive The Corps Network Washington, June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (92%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); FAMILY (88%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POOR POPULATION (73%); EMISSIONS (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%); CITY LIFE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (66%) COLORADO, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2008



320 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Moody's May Align Municipal Debt Ratings With Corporate

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Criticized by states and cities for how it rates their bonds, Moody's Investors Service said on Thursday that it was considering rating municipal debt on the same scale it uses for corporate debt. 
 It would be a significant change for the tradition-bound municipal bond market and could help to lower borrowing costs for some local governments during tougher economic times. It could also lead to less demand for bond insurance at a time when several big guarantors are faltering.
 This year, California and 10 other states called on Moody's and its rivals, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings, to change how they rated municipal debt because bonds issued by public entities default far less often than comparably rated corporate securities. The states said that because of their lower rating they were forced to buy bond insurance so they could issue bonds that pay lower interest rates.
 In March, Moody's proposed allowing municipalities to request a corporate-scale rating on a bond-by-bond basis. Company officials said they were now going further because most of the 160 comments received asked that the dual rating scales be eliminated.
 ''The tide that has changed is that there is greater demand and need for rating comparability today given the changes in the market,'' said Gail Sussman, Moody's executive in charge of public finance ratings. The company will accept comments on its new proposal until June 30.
 Ms. Sussman said the change did not mean that all municipal ratings would automatically be upgraded. The company will subjectively evaluate ratings, especially for municipalities that already have high ratings like AA and A. In addition to considering the risk of losses as it does now, the firm will consider subjective factors like quality of management, level of financial disclosure and ability to make timely payments. 
 In a statement, the treasurer of California, Bill Lockyer, applauded Moody's announcement but expressed concern about the use of factors other than default risk to determine ratings. California has an A rating, and Mr. Lockyer has asserted that the state should be rated AAA.
 ''We will work to ensure the system Moody's adopts for taxpayer-backed bonds places primary emphasis on the risk of default,'' Mr. Lockyer said. ''We do not oppose the use of other factors. But we strongly believe additional factors should have a clear, demonstrated relationship to the risk investors might not get paid.''
 It is unclear if the other two rating firms will follow Moody's. A spokesman for Fitch Ratings declined to comment. 
 S.& P. has maintained that it already uses the same scale for both municipal and corporate debts. After comparing default rates in 2000, the company upgraded 5,300 municipal bonds. Default rates from the early 1980s to 2006 on bonds rated by S.& P. show a significant difference between municipal and corporate bonds, but S.& P. has said in the past that those disparities would diminish over time. 
 ''We strongly believe in the usefulness of our global rating scale because it is designed to serve as a common language for evaluating and comparing creditworthiness across all major sectors and geographies,'' said Edward Sweeney, a spokesman for the firm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (92%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (57%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



321 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 496 words

 BODY:
PRESSURE ON SPECULATORS Lawmakers in Washington are lashing out at market regulators for not cracking down on commodity market speculators more vigorously. 
 CHARGES OF SEXISM News media outlets are facing accusations of sexism in their coverage of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination. [A1.] 
 SHAKE-UP AT LEHMAN Hoping to win back the confidence of Wall Street, Lehman Brothers said its chief operating officer and president, Joseph M. Gregory, and its chief financial officer, Erin Callan, had been removed from their posts. [C1.]
 If Richard S. Fuld Jr., the chief executive of Lehman Brothers, has made any mistakes, he has yet to share them. High & Low Finance: Floyd Norris. [C1.]
 ALTERNATIVE DEAL Talks between Yahoo and Microsoft have ended with the companies unable to reach a deal, but Yahoo announced an search advertising partnership with Google. [C1.]
 NEW BAGGAGE FEE Following in the contrails of American Airlines, United Airlines will begin charging $15 to check the first bag, a move that was also matched by US Airways. [C1.]
 RETAIL STRENGTH Sales of retail goods and services rose 1 percent in May, double what economists had expected, as Americans received more than $50 billion in tax rebates. [C1.]
 PRICE-FIXING CHARGES The European Commission charged Gaz de France and E.On, the leading suppliers of natural gas in France and Germany, with colluding to raise prices. [C2.]
 BIODIESEL FUEL INQUIRY The European Union said it would investigate United States producers of biodiesel fuel, saying American subsidies put producers in Europe at risk. [C2.]
 REDEFINING 'BLOOD DRIVE' The American Red Cross is reaching out to the more than 75 million fans of the Nascar racing circuit, hoping to turn them into regular blood donors. Advertising. [C3.]
 DEVELOPER RESIGNS Harry Macklowe stepped down as chairman and chief executive of Macklowe Associates and was succeeded by his son. [C3.]
 SEARCH FOR FUGITIVE The United States Marshals Service released a 'wanted' posted that called a missing a hedge fund manager who swindled $450 million 'armed and dangerous.' [C3.]
 THE NEW BANKS Hedge funds are increasingly offering loans to companies, usually at interest rates far higher than banks charge. [C4.]
 RATE CHANGE Moody's Investors Service said it was considering rating municipal debt the same way it rates corporate debt, which could lower borrowing costs for local governments. [C5.]
 CELLPHONE FEES The Federal Communications Commission revealed a plan to regulate the unpopular fees that cellphone carriers charge consumers for canceling their contracts early. [C6.]
 INSPECTION PENDING The Federal Aviation Administration is seeking to ground a class of very light jets after a mishap involving one of the planes. [C6.]
 CONSOLIDATION The merger of two biotechnology firms creates a giant supplier of machines and materials used by academic and pharmaceutical industry research laboratories. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); AIRLINES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CARTELS (78%); PRICE FIXING (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MARSHALS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); CORPORATE BONDS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (70%); BIOFUELS (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (69%); BLOOD DONATIONS (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (67%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (64%); SPORTS FANS (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (61%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (60%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (60%); MERGERS (60%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (50%); NASCAR RACING (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%); GDF SUEZ SA (82%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (72%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); GSZ (PAR) (82%); GSZ (BIT) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); LCC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (82%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RICHARD S FULD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



322 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Still No Plan to Rescue The City's OTB Parlors

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson and the State Legislature did not reach an agreement on Thursday on a plan that would rescue New York City's Off-Track Betting Corporation before Sunday, when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is scheduled to shut down the city's 60 betting branches.
 The OTB was one of several issues on the table during a cordial but at times strained news conference that the governor held with Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and Senate Majority Leader Joseph L. Bruno. The three men discussed what they hoped to accomplish before the end of the legislative session on June 23. 
 Mr. Paterson said he was open to a range of options to keep the OTB afloat, including a state takeover of the city's operations. He said he would consider state aid that would allow the city to continue running the parlors. Mr. Bloomberg says the city would be forced to subsidize them because of rules that send large portions of the parlors' revenue to the state.
 The closing would eliminate an industry overnight, putting 1,500 people out of work and depriving the state of tens of millions of dollars in revenue a year.
 ''I don't know if I have a preference so much as I would like to lead the consensus on it,'' Mr. Paterson said.
 The next few days will present a test of whether Mr. Paterson's genial political style will lead to greater legislative success than that enjoyed by his predecessor, Gov. Eliot Spitzer, who liked to hector his opponents in public as often as he negotiated with them in private. 
 Mr. Paterson acknowledged the contrast on Thursday, noting that the public negotiations convened by Mr. Spitzer last June degenerated into a bitter argument with Mr. Bruno over campaign finance reform, poisoning the two men's relationship and ultimately ending in stalemate over that and other issues.
 ''I think it's very important to learn from the lesson last year,'' Mr. Paterson said.
 The governor, who has been negotiating with lawmakers largely in private, dismissed criticism from government watchdog groups that the talks had been too secretive.
 ''We have to draw a distinction between open government and open negotiation,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''We never see President Bush sitting down negotiating with Nancy Pelosi on television.''
 Mr. Paterson said that he and the Legislature were nearing agreement on legislation that would help victims of predatory lending, speed the conversion of polluted lands known as brownfields into property that could be developed, and provide health care for those who worked at ground zero after Sept. 11. 
 But the governor, Mr. Bruno and Mr. Silver appeared less close to agreements on other issues, most notably the property tax cap that Mr. Paterson had proposed. 
 Mr. Bruno said the Senate would not support any proposal that did not actually lower property taxes, as Republican legislation in the Senate would do. The property tax cap proposed by Mr. Paterson would sharply limit the growth of property taxes but would not reduce them.
 ''We're trying to prioritize,'' Mr. Bruno said. ''Everybody here is one-upping each other. From what I've seen, with a couple of years of experience, is that nothing is going to happen because we're going to end up covering ourselves and posturing.''
 Mr. Silver pressed Mr. Bruno to explain how the schools would make up for lost revenue if property taxes were reduced, saying that districts could be forced to cut back on classroom heating and school bus service. 
 Mr. Silver said he would support a so-called circuit breaker, which would freeze property taxes when they exceed a certain percentage of an individual's income, but he seemed less enthusiastic about a cap. 
 ''I'm for a property tax cap,'' he said. ''But I want to know that schools have resources.''
 Mr. Paterson's proposal includes a circuit breaker, but the governor said on Thursday that it was not enough to solve the property tax crisis, though he was at pains to praise his fellow elected officials.
 ''I will say that I am pleased by the reactions of the other leaders and the legislators who have come forward with what they think some of the solutions might be,'' Mr. Paterson said.
 A reporter asked the three men what legislation would be approved by the end of the session.
 ''Good question,'' Mr. Bruno said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A bettor filled out a ticket for the Belmont Stakes on Saturday at a parlor in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); GAMING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX LAW (66%); BROWNFIELD SITES (63%); PROPERTY TAX (62%); PREDATORY LENDING (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (89%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%); ELIOT SPITZER (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); NANCY PELOSI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



323 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Donors Press Afghanistan On Corruption

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The United States, Europe and more than 60 other countries and international institutions offered about $20 billion in aid for Afghanistan as part of a big donors conference here Thursday. 
 But amid the public pledges of support, officials were fretting over whether the Afghan government was doing all that it could to make sure the money went to rebuilding and not into the pockets of the country's warlords and corrupt government officials. 
 More than half of the pledge total came from a previous commitment by the United States to provide $10.2 billion. Britain pledged $1.2 billion over the next five years.
 Some of the largest increases came from France and Japan. President Nicolas Sarkozy of France promised to ''more than double'' French aid, to more than $165 million over the next two years, French officials said; and Japan also doubled its aid, to $550 million. Germany offered more than $600 million over the next two years.
 The first lady, Laura Bush, fresh from her weekend trip to Afghanistan, called on international donors to ''reaffirm our commitment'' to the country's success and showed slides from her trip to the assembled leaders, which included President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan and Secretary General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations. 
 Bringing up her discussions with women in Afghanistan, Mrs. Bush noted a sense of urgency within the country. ''As the Afghan woman told me, this is our only chance,'' she said. 
 Other leaders echoed her calls to stand by Afghanistan. ''France shall retain its commitment to Afghanistan so long as it is necessary to win,'' Mr. Sarkozy said. ''We cannot give in to torturers.''
 The World Bank pledged $1.1 billion over five years, and the Asian Development Bank pledged $1.3 billion, also over five years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (63%)

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (65%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (54%); BAN KI-MOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (55%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



324 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Extension of Unemployment Benefits

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House took another step on Thursday in a running political fight over unemployment insurance by ignoring a veto threat from President Bush and easily approving an extension of benefits for idle workers whose aid is running out.
 Less than a day after coming up just short in a vote on the same measure, the House approved granting an extra 13 weeks of unemployment benefits nationwide beyond the standard 26 weeks; the vote was 274 to 137, the minimum margin needed to override a veto. 
 Republicans said the result was misleading because a number of lawmakers were absent. They expressed confidence they could sustain a rejection of the bill by Mr. Bush if it were to get to the White House. 
 But in an illustration of the election-year unease among Republicans about the unemployment issue, 49 of them again broke with their party leadership and joined 225 Democrats in backing the proposal, which would also extend benefits even longer in states with unemployment above 6 percent. In those states, benefits would be extended for a total of 26 weeks. 
 Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, blamed the Bush administration for a souring economy that was shedding jobs, and she rejected any insinuation that the extra aid amounted to an incentive to remain out of work.
 ''This isn't about people sitting on their butts back home and saying, 'Goody, I am getting an unemployment check,' '' Ms. Pelosi said. ''These people want to provide for their families and to imply anything else is an insult to these millions of people who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own.''
 But Republicans said the measure was too generous, would pad benefits in states that do not have high unemployment and dropped a longstanding requirement that applicants must have worked at least 20 weeks to draw unemployment. Given that the White House has promised a veto, they said, Democrats appeared to be more interested in a political than a policy fight.
 ''It's been about politics every day, all day,'' said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader.
 Democrats did move quickly to take advantage of Republican opposition to added benefits at a time of economic anxiety. After Wednesday's narrow defeat of the unemployment measure, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee sent news releases to the home districts of 20 potentially vulnerable Republicans, upbraiding them for voting ''against desperately needed unemployment relief for struggling American families.''
 The fate of the unemployment measure remains uncertain in the Senate even without the veto threat hanging over it. 
 Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said Thursday that he would try to win Republican agreement to quickly bring the House measure up for a vote without spending days trying to clear procedural hurdles. Republicans said Thursday they were not certain they would agree to such an arrangement, particularly if Democrats would not allow any attempts to amend the measure.
 If Republicans do not agree, Mr. Reid said he would instead continue to pursue an extension of unemployment benefits as part of a war-spending measure that lawmakers agree must be approved in the next few weeks.
 Under the unemployment proposal, an estimated four million Americans whose standard 26-week benefit has run out would be entitled to at least 13 more weeks of a benefit that averages about $300 a week. The cost of the proposal is about $10 billion to cover an extension through next March.
 Republicans have zeroed in on the provision eliminating the 20-week work requirement, saying it could allow someone who has worked for as little as two weeks to claim eligibility for benefits. ''That is, in my view, irresponsible public policy,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''It's a waste of taxpayer dollars.''
 But Democrats said they had been warned by labor experts that as many as 10 percent of those eligible for extended benefits could be denied them if the 20-week requirement was retained. They said that it particularly penalized low-wage workers, minorities and women and that anyone who qualified with a brief work history would get a very modest amount of unemployment compensation.
 Democrats said that Republicans appeared to be following the dictates of the White House, even though Senator John McCain of Arizona, the party's presidential candidate, has said he would support an extension of benefits. 
 ''They are obeying the position if not the orders of the White House instead of the orders from the people at home,'' said Representative Sander Levin, a Michigan Democrat whose state has been particularly hard hit by joblessness due to cutbacks in the automotive industry. Other states that could qualify for the full 26-week extension include Alaska, California and Rhode Island as well as the District of Columbia.
 About 8.5 million Americans were reported unemployed in May, but Democrats said that figure is understated because it does not count job seekers who have become discouraged and have given up seeking a new job. Congress and the administration last extended unemployment benefits in 2002.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (93%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); DISMISSALS (72%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); HARRY REID (59%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



325 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1675 words

HEADLINE: A Bull Market Sees the Worst In Speculators

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
In Washington, financial speculators have fat targets on their backs.
 They are being blamed for high gas prices, soaring grocery bills and volatile commodity markets, and lawmakers are lashing out at market regulators for not cracking down on them more vigorously.
 ''You study it, but you don't act against this incredible increase in speculation,'' Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, complained to a senior official of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission at a recent Senate hearing. ''Unless the C.F.T.C. is going to act against speculation, we don't have a cop on the beat.''
 Just this week, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the Connecticut independent, said he was working on a proposal to ban large institutional investors from the commodity markets entirely. The same day, the Bush administration endorsed another Senate proposal to create a new federal interagency task force to investigate commodity speculation. At least four public hearings have explored the topic in just the last two months, and Senator Lieberman will hold another session on June 24.
 Although it is common in tough financial times to blame the speculators, this escalating hostility toward them is starting to worry people with years of knowledge about how commodity markets work. Because without speculators, they say, these markets do not work at all. 
 Speculators, people willing to risk their capital in search of high profits, are central to healthy commodity markets, they say, and broad-brush restrictions on them could damage markets that are already under pressure from rising global demand for food and fuel. 
 Even in Washington, there is widespread agreement that no single factor is responsible for rising food and energy prices. The hungry, high-growth economies of India and China are fundamentally affecting worldwide demand, while uncooperative weather and government policies on trade and ethanol are among the many factors affecting supply. 
 Commodities, priced in American dollars, tend to rise in price as the dollar weakens, making commodities a popular haven for investors fearful of inflation.
 But beneath all these external factors is the simple seesaw of the marketplace: For every person who buys oil at $130 a barrel, there must be another person willing to sell at that price -- and, odds are, at least one of them will be a speculator.
 Before it was a Beltway epithet, ''speculator'' was simply a type of trader in the commodity futures markets. Unlike hedgers -- the farmers, miners, refineries and other commercial interests that actually make or use the commodities themselves -- the speculators, like day traders in the stock market, are simply trying to profit from changing prices.
 Some speculators follow market trends, buying as prices rise and driving them higher. But others buy when they think prices have fallen too low, sell when they see prices as too high or place bets that pay off only when prices fall. 
 The more money that speculators are willing to put to work in the market, the more liquid it is and the easier it is to buy and sell without causing big ripples in prices.
 Any trader, speculator or hedger can try to manipulate markets, of course. But with tempers rising along with food and fuel prices, some market scholars are concerned that speculation, the legal pursuit of market profits, is becoming a synonym for manipulation -- secret and collusive trading activity aimed at deliberately moving prices to produce illegal profits.
 As political pressure has grown, regulators have stepped up their demands for more detailed trading information from commodity exchanges, to improve their ability to monitor trading.
 In a statement this week, Walter Lukken, the C.F.T.C. chairman, said the commission was determined to see that commodity prices were set ''by the fundamental forces of supply and demand, rather than by abusive or manipulative practices.''
 The commodity market has seen its share of manipulation scandals -- allegations that executives at J. R. Simplot had tried to fix the Maine potato market in 1976, allegations that the Hunt family of Texas had manipulated the silver market in 1979 and, just last year, BP's settlement of federal charges that it had manipulated propane prices.
 Certainly, there have been unusual price spikes in commodity markets, like the short, sharp roller-coaster ride that hit the cotton market in early March and the more recent gyrations in the oil markets that have alarmed some market participants.
 While commodity market regulators regularly look for manipulative behavior, the C.F.T.C. took the unusual step in recent weeks of publicly confirming that it was conducting investigations looking for illegal activity in both the energy and agricultural markets.
 ''Concern about manipulation is not misplaced,'' said Patrick Westhoff, an economist at the University of Missouri's Food and Agricultural Policy Research Institute. ''But speculation doesn't equal manipulation, and I am concerned that there's been a confusion between the two concepts.''
 The stage of the speculation that is alarming Washington is the commodity futures market, which trades a financial derivative called a futures contract, an agreement for the future delivery of a fixed amount of a commodity at a certain price. The prices at which these futures contracts change hands are the benchmark for pricing commodities around the world.
 In essence, speculators are the only voluntary players in the commodity futures markets. They could use their billions to dabble in currency markets or buy distressed real estate or pile up Treasury bonds. 
 But farmers, miners, oil producers and all the other players engaged in commodity production and consumption -- the so-called commercial players -- pretty much have to be there. There just are not many other places they can hedge the price risks that arise in their commodity-based businesses. 
 So speculators become the ballast in the market, making the contrary trades, taking on the risks the hedgers want to shed, reacting quickly when news jolts the markets and, most important, creating liquidity by pouring in enough money to allow everyone to make very large trades quickly without causing wild price swings.
 Liquidity is, in effect, the hostess gift that speculators bring to every market party, and without the capital poured into energy markets by institutional investors, prices may well be far higher and more volatile than they are, said Philip K. Verleger Jr., an economist and energy policy consultant who testifies frequently before Congress on energy issues.
 In the last five years, hundreds of billions of dollars have flowed into the commodity futures markets, both from traditional institutions -- hedge funds, pension funds and investment bank trading desks, for example -- and from the newer commodity-linked index funds and exchange traded funds, which track various commodity market indexes. 
 Mr. Verleger said he strongly disagrees with the view that these new speculators are pushing up the price of oil and other commodities. ''In fact, they have at a minimum reduced price volatility and quite possibly contributed to a lower price level than would have been obtained had they been barred from the commodity markets,'' he said. 
 Paul Horsnell, a managing director and head of commodity research at Barclays Capital in London, said he believes that Washington's hostility reflects, in part, a misunderstanding of the strategy used by many of the new investors.
 Critics -- including Michael W. Masters, a portfolio manager whose testimony last month in Washington was praised by Senator Lieberman -- complain that these new investors are piling in only on the buy side, thereby tilting the market toward higher prices.
 The actual picture is more complex, Mr. Horsnell said. Many institutional investors constantly adjust their positions to maintain a fixed percentage of their portfolio in commodities, he said. 
 Thus, a pension fund that wants to put no more than 2 percent of its assets in commodities will have to sell some of its stake when its value rises above that percentage limit.
 So, as in other markets, these investors ''are stabilizing forces because when the asset goes up in value, they sell some to put their portfolios back into balance,'' he said.
 But the sheer size of the money flowing into commodity futures has become the most important fact about it.
 According to Barclays research, about $200 billion in managed assets was invested in commodities at the end of 2007 -- up from barely measurable levels just seven years ago. Latest estimates suggest that figure rose to $230 billion in the first four months of this year, but at least half of that growth came from rising commodity prices, not new money flowing in, Mr. Horsnell said.
 He said that this entire investment stake is dwarfed by the amount of money invested in, say, ExxonMobil. But the commodity markets are much smaller than the equities markets, and this flood of new capital is a once-in-a-lifetime occurrence.
 ''Speculators have seized control of these markets,'' Senator Levin said.
 Lawmakers know that markets need speculators, the senator said, but are using ''speculation'' simply as shorthand for their real target of concern, which is ''excessive speculation.''
 But while federal law orders commodity market regulators to prevent ''excessive speculation,'' the law does not define the term -- and neither has Congress. ''That's what regulators are for,'' Senator Levin said. ''It's up to them to put some flesh on that term.''
 Senator Lieberman disagreed, saying Congress must clarify the standard for regulators to enforce. America must not hang a sign on its commodity markets saying, ''no speculators allowed,'' he said. ''There is a difference between speculation and excessive speculation.''
 But Congress has to ''define and legislate that definition better,'' he added. ''We can't just say, as Justice Potter Stewart once said of pornography, that we know it when we see it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about increasing hostility toward commodity speculators misspelled the surname of a managing director of Barclays Capital in London, who suggested that some of the enmity stems from a misunderstanding of investment strategies. He is Paul Horsnell, not Hornsell.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, says regulators study ways to increase oversight of financial speculators but that recent swings in the market show little sign of effective policing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FUTURES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (78%); CURRENCIES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); ALCOHOLS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); TRENDS (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); ETHANOL (64%)

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (72%); JOE LIEBERMAN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



326 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Vermont to Offer Fuel and Food Assistance

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

 BODY:
Vermont is creating a task force to help residents combat the high prices of gasoline, home heating oil and food, Gov. Jim Douglas announced on Thursday.
 ''We must face the growing reality that fuel prices this winter may be out of reach for many families,'' Mr. Douglas, a Republican, said in a speech at Vermont Technical College in Randolph Center. 
 The announcement comes as New England, which has the highest rates of heating oil use in the country, grapples with how to help residents afford heat this winter.
 Vermont will establish a no- or low-interest program to help residents weatherize their homes, create a clearinghouse for information about public and private organizations that provide heating assistance and encourage the formation of town energy committees to provide outreach and education about home heating. 
 Maine has the highest rate of heating oil use in the nation, with about 87 percent of homes using heating oil or kerosene, according to census data. Vermont and New Hampshire follow, with 56 percent of residents relying on home heating oil. A gallon of heating oil currently costs about $4.60 in Maine, according to the Web site MaineOil.com.
 ''Our goal must be to reduce demand for fuel -- and demand for these assistance programs -- by making homes more fuel efficient,'' Mr. Douglas said. 
 Maine offers residents low-interest loans to help with repairs that improve energy efficiency, provides rebates to homeowners who buy solar panels and provides loans to low-income residents who have trouble paying their heating bills. 
 Mr. Douglas, like Gov. John Baldacci of Maine, is expanding the state's park-and-ride program to help save gasoline. Vermont is also starting a Web site that maps out bike routes, has a car pool message board and tells residents which gas stations have the cheapest gasoline. 
 Last week, Mr. Baldacci, a Democrat, announced a $1.4 million program that gives low-interest loans to truckers who have been reeling from the cost of diesel fuel. Mr. Douglas is exploring a similar plan in which loans would cover auxiliary power units, which would cut down on fuel used while a truck is idling. 
 With higher transportation costs come higher food costs, and Mr. Douglas is urging Vermonters to eat locally grown food. He is also increasing the number of farmers' markets statewide. 
 The state will also help residents use food stamp services, as only 70 percent of those who are eligible for food stamps use them. The task force will also urge restaurants and other businesses to donate excess food to the Vermont Foodbank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEATING OIL (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); SOLAR ENERGY (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); WEB SITES (66%); FOOD STAMPS (60%); CENSUS (54%)

PERSON: JIM DOUGLAS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (95%); MAINE, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



327 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHECK POINT; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Will the Real Tax-and-Spender Please 'Fess Up?

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER; Julie Bosman contributed reporting from Kaukauna, Wis.

 BODY:
With the general election in full gear, Senator John McCain has stepped up efforts to paint his rival, Senator Barack Obama, as what he calls a traditional Democratic tax-and-spend liberal. On Tuesday, for instance, Mr. McCain, addressing a business gathering, accused Mr. Obama of wanting to enact ''the largest single tax increase since World War II.''
 Mr. McCain, the expected Republican nominee, also said that ''under Senator Obama's tax plan, Americans of every background would see their taxes rise -- seniors, parents, small-business owners and just about everyone who has even a modest investment in the market.'' He used much the same language in an April 15 speech in which he warned that Democrats ''are going to raise your taxes by thousands of dollars per year,'' adding up to ''a trillion dollars in new taxes over the next decade.'' 
 Economists of various ideological persuasions, however, view Mr. McCain's assessment as inaccurate or exaggerated. Some question whether Mr. Obama's tax plan can even be characterized as an increase. Some also argue that contrary to Mr. McCain's assertions, the Democrat's proposals, if enacted, would actually reduce taxes for the middle class -- the voters both candidates see as the key to victory. 
 In a study of the candidates' plans made public Wednesday, the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center concluded that in contrast to Mr. McCain, ''Senator Obama offers much larger tax breaks to low- and middle-income taxpayers and would increase taxes on high-income taxpayers.''
 The study said, ''The largest tax cuts, as a share of income, would go to those at the bottom of the income distribution,'' whereas ''Senator McCain's tax cuts would primarily benefit those with very high incomes.''
 Other groups that focus on tax and economic policy are preparing similar analyses, but say they regard the Tax Policy Center's assessment as highly reliable, based on its work in the past. 
 The study did question some of Mr. Obama's calculations, noting, for example, that ''both candidates may be overoptimistic in their revenue targets for closing tax loopholes, Obama probably more than McCain.'' 
 According to the group's computations, under Mr. Obama's plan, the middle of the middle class, or those earning $37,595 to $66,354, would see taxes cut by $1,042 a year. Under Mr. McCain's plan, taxes for people in that category would also fall, but by $319; the largest chunk of the benefits would go to those making $2.8 million a year or more. 
 ''When you hear this talk on the TV about how Obama's a tax-and-spend liberal and he's going to destroy businesses, it's just not true,'' Mr. Obama said Thursday in Kaukauna, Wis. The reality, he said, is that ''the typical middle-class family will get three times more from my cut than the one John McCain has proposed.'' 
 In a conference call with reporters Thursday, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, Mr. McCain's senior economic adviser, complained about what he described as flaws in the Tax Policy Center study. He called it ''an incomplete analysis'' that made ''some fundamentally unrealistic assumptions'' about Mr. Obama's plan, specifically in the area of taxes on small businesses, and accepted spending projections for the Democrat ''that also don't add up.'' 
 There is ''a real difference here'' between Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama, Mr. Holtz-Eakin added. ''The Tax Policy Center didn't capture that,'' he said. 
 Part of the disagreement between the candidates has to do with the semantics of what constitutes a tax increase. When Congress approved cuts in 2001 and 2003, it did so with the understanding that those benefits, which largely favor the wealthy, would expire at the end of 2010. While Mr. McCain wants to extend virtually all of the cuts permanently, Mr. Obama favors retaining those that primarily benefit people whose income is less than $250,000 a year.
 ''The way the Congressional Budget Office scores it, that would not be a tax increase, because their baseline assumes the increase is going to happen as part of current law,'' said Chris Edwards, a tax analyst at the libertarian Cato Institute. ''Bush and the Republicans would have liked the cuts to be permanent, but you need 60 votes in the Senate to make cuts permanent.''
 Mr. McCain is correct when he says that Mr. Obama intends to increase the maximum tax rate on capital gains, the bulk of which fall on the wealthiest segment of the population, and that he would be less generous in offering breaks on the estate tax. But he tends to play down or ignore Mr. Obama's proposals to eliminate taxes for retirees earning less than $50,000 a year and to give tax breaks to workers earning less than $75,000 annually. 
 ''McCain is picking the areas where rates go up and ignoring the areas where Obama is trying to rebalance the tax code so that taxpayers would save,'' said John Irons, research and policy director at the Economic Policy Institute, which is generally viewed as sympathetic to working families. Mr. Irons said that ''the important thing is to look at overall impact on people'' and that on this score, ''the vast majority of the population, almost the entirety of the middle class, would see more from Obama than McCain.''
 Economists have also criticized the methodology behind Mr. McCain's assertion that Americans from all kinds of backgrounds could end up paying thousands of dollars more in taxes if Mr. Obama got his way. Several criticized him as apparently basing his claim on an average figure in which, as Mr. Irons said, ''Bill Gates is mixed with you and me, and everything gets skewed.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (67%); WORLD WAR II (56%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



328 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Global Survey Finds Shift In Attitudes Toward U.S.

BYLINE: By MEG BORTIN

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
There is good news and bad news for President Bush as he pursues his valedictory tour of Europe this week, according to a new worldwide study by the Pew Global Attitudes Project. The image of the United States has improved slightly in many countries over the past year, the poll results show. But the new optimism appears to be driven largely by the fact that Mr. Bush will soon be leaving office.
 Meanwhile, the survey showed that many across the globe blamed the United States at least in part for slumping economies and global warming. 
 ''There has been no sea change in worldviews of the United States,'' Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew Research Center, said of the results, which were released Thursday. ''Europeans are still much more negative than they were at the beginning of the decade, and highly negative views prevail in the Muslim world. But there are some indications that the world sees the possibility of change with the prospect of a new president.''
 The 24-nation survey, conducted in March and April, shows that many people who have been following the presidential race have greater confidence in Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee, than in his Republican rival, Senator John McCain, ''to do the right thing regarding world affairs.'' This feeling is strongest in Europe, Australia, Japan and Tanzania, which borders Kenya, the homeland of Mr. Obama's father.
 Meanwhile, the survey found perceptions that China was ascendant in world affairs. Many people -- including 3 out of 10 Americans -- think that China will eventually replace the United States as the world's leading superpower. 
 But people are also critical of China, according to the poll, which was conducted shortly after civil unrest broke out in Tibet this spring. China's overall favorability ratings have slipped over the past year, and China is seen by many as ignoring the interests of other countries and is faulted on matters related to the environment and human rights.
 Anxiety about the economy was reported as widespread. 
 ''In three-quarters of the countries Pew surveyed (18), a majority now say that their national economic conditions are bad -- far more than just one year ago,'' the report said. Notable exceptions are India, Australia and China, where 82 percent see the current economic situation as good.
 Over all, majorities in 18 of the 24 survey countries are generally dissatisfied with the way things are going at home. The big exception is again China, where 86 percent express satisfaction, up from 83 percent last year. 
 In the United States, where 70 percent are dissatisfied with the way things are going, pessimism extends beyond the economy to the country's chief foreign policy challenge: only a minority of Americans (40 percent) now think efforts to establish a democratic government in Iraq will definitely or probably succeed. In 2006, a majority (54 percent) still believed that success was likely.
 Concern about global warming has increased since last year in 11 of the 20 countries for which trends are available, Pew found.
 ''When asked which country is 'hurting the environment the most,' majorities or pluralities in most countries surveyed cite the United States,'' the Pew report said. ''But people are increasingly pointing fingers at China.''
 The United States and China are among the 10 countries where majorities do not define global warming as a very serious problem. 
 The survey of 24,717 people is the seventh major study conducted by the Pew Global Attitudes Project since 2002.
 Although opinions of the United States had been in steady decline since the invasion of Iraq, there was a significant increase in positive views this year in 10 of the 21 countries for which comparative data was available, including Poland and Indonesia. 
 Despite the upward trend, there are still just eight survey countries where majorities now have a favorable view of the United States: Britain, India, Lebanon, Nigeria, Poland, South Africa, South Korea and Tanzania.
 In fact, in one-third of the survey countries, more respondents see the United States more as an enemy than as a partner. This view is especially strong in Turkey, a NATO ally, and in Pakistan, a partner in Washington's efforts to fight terrorism. 
 Pew also asked respondents how they felt about Iran, and the reply was negative in all but four countries: Pakistan, Indonesia, Nigeria and Russia. 
 The surveys were conducted from March 17 to April 21. The margin of sampling error ranges from two to four percentage points. Interviews were conducted by telephone and in person by local survey firms.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Where the United States' Image Is Improving: In a recent poll of 24 countries, 9 showed an increase in the percentage of residents who had a positive view of the United States. The full report is at pewglobal.org.(Source: Pew Global Attitudes Study) Chart details stats for world survey. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (77%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); TIBET (79%); KENYA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



329 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Obama, Liberalism and the Challenge of Reform

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Is Barack Obama really a force for change, or is he just a traditional Democrat with a patina of postpartisan rhetoric?
 That question is surprisingly hard to answer. When you listen to his best speeches, you see a person who really could herald a new political era. But when you look into his actual policies, you often find a list of orthodox liberal programs that no centrist or moderate conservative would have any reason to support. 
 To investigate this question, I looked more closely into Obama's education policies. Education is a good area to probe because Obama knows a lot about it, and because there are two education camps within the Democratic Party: a status quo camp and a reform camp. The two camps issued dueling strategy statements this week. 
 The status quo camp issued a statement organized by the Economic Policy Institute. This report argues that poverty and broad social factors drive high dropout rates and other bad outcomes. Schools alone can't combat that, so more money should go to health care programs, anti-poverty initiatives and after-school and pre-K programs. When it comes to improving schools, the essential message is that we need to spend more on what we're already doing: smaller class sizes, better instruction, better teacher training.
 The reformist camp, by contrast, issued a statement through the Education Equality Project, signed by school chiefs like Joel Klein of New York, Michelle Rhee of Washington, Andres Alonso of Baltimore as well as Al Sharpton, Mayor Cory Booker of Newark and experts like Andrew Rotherham, the former Clinton official who now writes the Eduwonk blog.
 The reformists also support after-school and pre-K initiatives. But they insist school reform alone can make a big difference, so they emphasize things the status quo camp doesn't: rigorous accountability and changing the fundamental structure of school systems. 
 Today's school systems aren't broken, the reformers argue. They were designed to meet the needs of teachers and adults first, and that's exactly what they are doing. It's time, though, to put the interests of students first. 
 The reformers want to change the structure of the system, not just spend more on the same old things. Tough decisions have to be made about who belongs in the classroom and who doesn't. Parents have to be given more control over education through public charter schools. Teacher contracts and state policies that keep ineffective teachers in the classroom need to be revised. Most importantly, accountability has to be rigorous and relentless. No Child Left Behind has its problems, but it has ushered in a data revolution, and hard data is the prerequisite for change.
 The question of the week is: Which camp is Barack Obama in?
 His advisers run the gamut, and the answer depends in part on what month it is. Back in October 2005, Obama gave a phenomenal education speech in which he seemed to ally with the reformers. Then, as the campaign heated up, he shifted over to pure union orthodoxy, ripping into accountability and testing in a speech in New Hampshire in a way that essentially gutted the reformist case. Then, on May 28 in Colorado, he delivered another major education speech in which he shifted back in a more ambiguous direction. 
 In that Colorado speech, he opened with a compelling indictment of America's school systems. Then he argued that the single most important factor in shaping student achievement is the quality of the teachers. This seemed to direct him in the reformist camp's direction, which has made them happy.
 But when you look at the actual proposals Obama offers, he's doesn't really address the core issues. He's for the vast panoply of pre-K and after-school programs that most of us are for. But the crucial issues are: What do you do with teachers and administrators who are failing? How rigorously do you enforce accountability? Obama doesn't engage the thorny, substantive matters that separate the two camps.
 He proposes dozens of programs to build on top of the current system, but it's not clear that he would challenge it. He's all carrot, no stick. He's politically astute -- giving everybody the impression he's on their side -- but substantively vague. Change just isn't that easy.
 Obama endorses many good ideas and is more specific than the McCain campaign, which hasn't even reported for duty on education. But his education remarks give the impression of a candidate who wants to be for big change without actually incurring the political costs inherent in that enterprise.
 In Washington, Mayor Adrian Fenty has taken big risks in supporting a tenacious reformer like Rhee. Would President Obama likewise take on a key Democratic interest group in order to promote real reform? We can hope. But so far, hope is all we can be sure of. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (75%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (75%); EDUCATION REFORM (75%); TEACHER EDUCATION (75%); EDUCATION LAW (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); HEALTH CARE (52%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (54%) NEW JERSEY, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



330 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: Are Washington Insiders Necessary?

 BODY:
Both presidential candidates have now been bruised by talking the talk of reform while walking the walk of old Washington habits. 
 Most recently, Senator Barack Obama's vow to reform the power-broker ways of Washington took a hit with the hasty resignation of James Johnson as chief of his vice-presidential selection team. It turned out that Mr. Johnson, the former chief of Fannie Mae, received favorable loans worth millions from Countrywide Financial, the company at the center of the mortgage crisis that Mr. Obama has been castigating. Mr. Johnson also was a champion of the excessive corporate pay that Mr. Obama has made an issue before economically pressed voters.
 Mr. Johnson joins the five professional lobbyists who had to be bailed out of Senator John McCain's campaign. More remain, some ostensibly ''retired'' from powerful firms as they work to reach the White House.
 In his initial chagrin, Mr. Obama scoffingly asked whether he's supposed to ''vet the vetters.'' That must strike him now as the wiser route toward reform. 
 Claims are made about irreplaceable sagacity supposedly offered by players in Washington's floating Brahmin crapgame. More often than not, fund-raising prowess and sycophancy win the edge as much as any evidence of brain power. 
 What's wrong with some fresh talent, especially behind candidates who roam the nation proclaiming the era of change?
 There'll be more gotcha moments in the campaign. Voters can only hope Senators Obama and McCain learn the lesson here. Walk the reform talk. Vet the vetters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); FUNDRAISING (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (72%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



331 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: The Recession in the Rearview Mirror

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Read Floyd Norris's blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
HOPES that the United States could avoid a recession were renewed this week by evidence that the government's rebate checks were stimulating spending, at least for now. But two recession indicators based on employment statistics offer evidence that a recession may have begun months ago. 
 While both indicators are based on declining job markets, they differ in that each comes from a different survey conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Those surveys -- one of business establishments and the other of households -- sometimes offer contradictory views of the employment picture. But now they both indicate an economy that has slowed significantly.
 The top chart is based on the establishment survey and reflects changes over 12-month periods in the number of private sector jobs, before seasonal adjustments. 
 Normally, that total increases even if the economy is not strong, simply because the working age population is rising. But when the number of jobs falls over a 12-month period, that is an indication that a recession is already under way.
 Since 1953, there have been 10 periods when the figures fell into negative territory. As the chart shows, the first nine came months after a recession had already started, although that was never clear until later. The 10th period began in May.
 The lags in that indicator -- the time from the beginning of the recession until the time that the year-over-year job figures enter negative territory -- have ranged from two to 12 months, with an average of five to six months.
 The job figures from the establishment survey will be modified several times before the final number for any month is reported, and it is possible the revisions may change the recession signal, making it come earlier or later or not at all.
 The household survey, however, is not revised, so that recession indicator, shown in the bottom chart, will remain. The indicator is based on a 1 percentage point increase in the unemployment rate over a 12-month period. As with the other indicator, each time that has happened since 1953 a recession had already begun three to 10 months earlier. It also signaled a recession in May. 
 The popular definition of a recession is two consecutive quarters of decline in real gross domestic product, but that is not the definition used by the National Bureau of Economic Research, which will eventually determine if there was a recession.
 It defines a recession as ''a significant decline in economic activity spread across the economy, lasting more than a few months, normally visible in real G.D.P., real income, employment, industrial production and wholesale-retail sales.'' 
 The fact that employment is one of the indicators used by the bureau helps to explain why the indicator has worked in the past. If there was no downturn in jobs, the bureau was unlikely to conclude there was a recession. Employment is a lagging indicator. So if there is a recession going on now, the figures are likely to stay bad until after it has ended.
 The official determination is unlikely to come soon. The last recession began in March 2001, but the bureau did not determine that until November 2001, the month the recession ended. It took the bureau until July 17, 2003, to proclaim the downturn had ended 20 months earlier.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Private Sector Employment, 12-month change
 Unemployment Rate, 12-month change (Source: Bureau of Labor Statisitcs, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); RETAIL SALES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



332 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ON RELIGION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Lawyer-Turned-Nun Rises to Israel's Defense

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN. 
E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Sister Ruth Lautt works from a single room on the 19th floor of the God Box. Such is the nickname for the Interchurch Center, the office building on Riverside Drive in Manhattan that is the closest thing to a Vatican for America's mainline Protestant denominations. Indeed, Sister Ruth's fellow tenants include agencies of the United Methodist Church, the United Church of Christ and the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.). 
 Wearing the tapered suits left over from an earlier career in law and the crucifix of her more recent life as a Roman Catholic nun, Sister Ruth cuts an inconspicuous figure at the elevator bank. And on many of the issues that animate the mainline churches -- ecumenical outreach, social justice -- she makes a perfectly companionable neighbor. On the subject of Israel, however, she qualifies as something more like the enemy within. 
 Through the organization she founded three years ago, Christians for Fair Witness on the Middle East, Sister Ruth has frequently and sharply clashed with the very denominations housed under the God Box's roof. When they have proposed divestment from Israel or more generally condemned its actions against Palestinians, she has fought against those positions, vociferously speaking out for Israel's right to self-defense and security.
 In the rancorous and relentless debate on the Middle East conflict, Sister Ruth stands as a sui generis player. She has little contact with Jewish advocacy groups. Even while defending Israel's defensive measures, including the separation barrier, she openly criticizes its occupation of the West Bank and laments Palestinian suffering.
 As for her methods, Fair Witness has specialized in behind-the-scenes infighting at denominational meetings. A former litigator with the famously aggressive Manhattan law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, Sister Ruth has become both effective and controversial by working the floor at religious conventions, helping opponents of divestment draft motions, applying persuasion at the subcommittee and committee levels.
 ''We are informed by the Christian mandate to stand for justice and to raise our voices when we see someone being falsely accused,'' Sister Ruth, 44, said in an interview at the God Box. ''The issue isn't divestment. Divestment is a symptom, a symptom of bias against the state of Israel and an attempt to lay the blame on the shoulders of Israel.''
 Such a viewpoint collides with the political and theological direction of the mainline Protestant churches. Influenced by a version of liberation theology espoused by the Palestinian Christian activist Naim Ateek and his organization Sabeel, which likens Palestinians to the persecuted Jesus, all five of the mainline denominations in the United States (Methodist, Presbyterian, Episcopalian, Evangelical Lutheran and United Church of Christ) have debated and in some cases adopted policies intended to bring economic pressure on Israel to compromise.
 Just last month, with Sister Ruth present as a nonvoting observer, the United Methodist Church defeated three divestment motions. At the same time, however, the church's general conference approved several motions reiterating opposition to Israel's settlements and military presence in the West Bank.
 To divestment proponents, Sister Ruth is an intrusive irritant. 
 ''It's inappropriate for an outside group like this one to come in to our conference and seek to influence internal decisions that reflect our values and our previously adopted positions on the occupation,'' said Susanne Hoder, a member of the divestment task force of the New England Conference of the United Methodist Church. ''It's an odd pursuit for a nun to spend so much of her time seeking to discredit Christians who are trying to protect other Christians who are being persecuted by the occupation.''
 Sister Ruth parts ways even with her own order of nuns, the Dominican sisters, in her stance on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. On a Web site devoted to ''justice and peace,'' the Dominican order formally opposes the separation barrier and calls for ''solidarity'' with Palestinian Christians.
 Little in Sister Ruth's professional background anticipated her current cause. Before she joined the Dominican order in 1996, she had earned a law degree from New York University and worked at Skadden, Arps. Even after becoming a sister, she continued to litigate cases for a smaller firm on Long Island, close to the Dominican residence where she lived.
 Sister Ruth did, however, earn a master's degree in Jewish-Christian Studies from Seton Hall University in New Jersey, and participated in several ecumenical groups on Long Island.
 While she said that she received a divine call to advocate for Israel, that call coincided with a rising tide of protests against Israel for sending its army back into the West Bank's major cities after a rash of suicide bombings in early 2002. The criticism of Israel from liberal churches grew even greater with construction of the separation barrier, which for portions of its route crosses into Palestinian territory.
 Sister Ruth made her first trip to Israel in 2003. (Since then she has returned five times, generally visiting the West Bank as well.) In December 2005, she incorporated Fair Witness and sent out its first news release. 
 Although the group has a board with Roman Catholic and Protestant members, the operation is essentially all Sister Ruth, all the time. She raises the money for its $120,000 annual budget. She assembled its database on the Israel-Palestine conflict and the positions of mainline Protestant groups. She leads Protestant delegations on study tours to the region -- African-American clergy members will be going in August, Lutherans in November -- and gives her analysis of Zionism and Israel to Christian audiences.
 In a typical speech last November at Boston College, she commended the liberal churches for ''a wholesome, Gospel-centered concern for Palestinian suffering, which is real,'' and endorsed a two-state solution. But she also made the case for Israeli self-defense, even in the form of the separation barrier.
 ''I need to question how people feel they have the right in the name of peace and justice, to tell other people not to try to preserve their own lives,'' she said at one point. ''You're not obligated to lay down and die.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sister Ruth Lautt's Christians for Fair Witness on the Middle East sometimes puts her at odds with her fellow Christians. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); RELIGION (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); DIVESTITURES (87%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); LAWYERS (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); LITIGATION (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%)

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: THE INTERCHURCH CENTER (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



333 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Stocks and Bonds Oil and Food Add to Inflation Pressures

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Inflation hit harder in May as prices for a wide swath of consumer goods rose at their fastest pace in six months, underscoring warnings from central bankers and adding to a growing consensus that the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates by the end of the year.
 The Consumer Price Index, which measures prices of a batch of common household products, rose 0.6 percent last month, as Americans were forced to cope with a sharp increase in fuel costs. The report, released Friday by the Labor Department, is considered a benchmark measure of inflation. 
 On an annual basis, inflation worsened for the first time in four months, running at 4.2 percent in May compared with a year ago.
 The index, which rose more than economists had forecast, comes on the heels of repeated warnings about inflation from the world's central banks. The chairman of the Fed, Ben S. Bernanke, joined other bank officials this week in focusing on higher prices, citing the economic damage wrought by the record run-up in food and oil prices. 
 The speeches have fueled a growing sense on Wall Street that the Fed has shifted its focus from supporting growth to fighting inflation. The May C.P.I. helped heighten expectations that higher interest rates, which tend to hold down prices, may be in the offing.
 On Wall Street, the major stock indexes rose after the report, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ending the day up 1.5 percent. The Dow Jones industrials gained more than 165 points, or 1.4 percent, and the technology-laden Nasdaq finished 2 percent higher. 
 Some investors pointed to declines in the price of clothing and computers as evidence that high gasoline prices were not forcing up costs of other products. Excluding the cost of food and gasoline, inflation ran at 0.2 percent in May.
 But compared with May 2007, so-called core inflation rose 2.3 percent, above what is generally considered to be the comfort zone of the Fed.
 The cost of transportation jumped 2 percent, and prices of commodities, tobacco and utility fuels all increased, as businesses, squeezed by higher shipping and production costs, tried to force their customers to pay higher prices.
 But the real pain occurred in products that most Americans cannot live without: food and energy.
 In May, gasoline prices rose 5.2 percent, and were up 21 percent compared with a year ago, according to the report. They may rise again in June: the nationwide average for gasoline topped $4 a gallon last weekend as the price of oil leaped to a new high.
 Americans paid 5 percent more for foods and beverages in May than a year ago.
 Economists were somewhat reassured by the slower core increase, but the thrust of the report suggested problems to come. ''Producers have thus far remained patient, observant of competitive pressures while waiting for the tidal surge in energy prices to recede,'' Kenneth Beauchemin, an economist at Global Insight, wrote in a note. ''It is becoming clearer, however, that the waters will stubbornly remain and cause more firms to throw in the towel and raise prices in the coming months.''
 Consumers appear well aware that they may face harder times soon. A widely watched measure of Americans' confidence in the economy fell to its lowest level since 1980, an earlier period of high inflation and slow growth. 
 The consumer confidence survey, released Friday by the University of Michigan and Reuters, dropped to 56.7 in June from 59.8 in May, the fifth consecutive month of decline. Americans also felt worse about the economy's prospects, with that gauge dipping to 49 from 51.1 last month.
 Treasury bonds, particularly the two-year note, surged this week, an indication that investors expect rates to rise. The two-year note gained back a little on Friday. 
 The investment bank Lehman Brothers bounced back on Friday after a management shake-up on Thursday drove shares down $1.05. Lehman shares rose $3.11, to $25.81, the first increase since June 5, when it closed at $33.85.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute
The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab. (Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.)(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (93%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



334 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: California Braces for 'New Summer of Love'

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
The groom was shopping for the perfect diamond for his betrothed -- the other groom. As Rey Almeida, a 47-year-old elementary school principal, perused the Equality Forever rings (a same-sex wedding special at 40 percent off if purchased from June 16 to June 26), he couldn't help reflecting on the symbolism.
 ''We've been waiting for the right moment,'' Mr. Almeida, 47, said of marrying his partner, Alan Pex, a 46-year-old accountant who was initially as standoffish as Mr. Big on ''Sex in the City.'' ''Now there's the possibility of a ring, a ring that says, I want to marry you and spend the rest of my life with you.' ''
 California is gearing up for the ''new summer of love,'' as it is being dubbed here: the legalization of same-sex marriage beginning at 5:01 p.m. Monday. 
 Unlike in Massachusetts, California's new law does not limit marriages to residents of the state, thus resurrecting old postcard images of California as the promised land. But instead of Edenic orange groves, the new arrivals will be greeted with organic framboise ganaches, Russian River honeymoon canoe trips and Gay Palm Springs hotel packages with rose petals, Champagne, two souvenir pillows embroidered with the couples' first names and aromatherapy candles at room check-in.
 Faced with a wilted economy, water shortages and sticker shock at the gasoline pump, many California businesses are welcoming ''the dinks'' (double income, no kids) with open arms. ''It's basically a godsend,'' said Daniel Doiron, the general manager of the Ingleside Inn in Palm Springs, which is offering honeymoon specials from $479 bargain basement (boutonnieres, 15-minute wedding, 20 guests) to the ''Elizabeth Taylor'' at $29,999 (poolside villas, wedding cake and reception, ice sculptures, flowers, sit-down dinner for 200 and three nights in the honeymoon suite). ''We're just blessed to help.'' Ten couples from New York, Las Vegas and Phoenix have signed up for the options.
 According to Community Marketing Inc., a gay and lesbian market research firm here, four of the top 10 gay travel destinations are in California, with gay men and lesbians spending $64 billion a year on domestic leisure travel. The potential windfall of same-sex marriage was underscored this week in a study by the Williams Institute at the University of California, Los Angeles, School of Law, which estimated that over three years, same-sex nuptials would contribute $684 million to the state's wedding industry and $64 million to the state budget. 
 The study also predicted that half of California's 102,639 gay couples would marry over the next three years, as would 68,000 from out of state (including 12,000 from New York). 
 Among them are Jeffrey Dreiblatt, 47, a Web designer, and Willie Walker, 44, a legal assistant, from Brooklyn, who fell in love in the Borough Hall subway station 15 years ago while standing in line to buy tokens. They plan to honeymoon at an inn in Sonoma County after marrying in San Francisco on Aug. 8. 
 ''When I was younger, I didn't understand the point of getting married and replicating heterosexual life,'' said Mr. Dreiblatt. ''But over the years, my thinking has changed. The law in California and the implications for New York spoke to us and said, 'now is the time.' ''
 Many gay men and lesbians are taking a wait-and-see attitude, said the Rev. Blane Ellsworth, an independent nondenominational minister in Napa who also has a Web site, Enchanting Elopements, listing equality-sensitive businesses. There is still the memory of the euphoria, and letdown, in 2004, when nearly 4,000 same-sex couples stood in line to marry in San Francisco, only to have the marriages nullified by the state five months later. 
 Mr. Ellsworth said those he has dealt with ''are pretty smart business people.''
 ''They're saying if they're going to invest in a nice service and wedding, 'I'm going to wait until it's a sure thing,' '' he said.
 ''We're hoping our rights don't get taken away again,'' said Megan Marteny, 23, who was sipping Champagne one recent night with her partner at a wedding expo held by the Golden Gate Business Association, a gay/lesbian/bisexual/transgender chamber of commerce. 
 In contrast to the experience in 2004, which had a spontaneous, storm-the-castle, free-tickets-to-the-Grateful-Dead quality, with hundreds of couples standing in line in the rain overnight, there is a palpable sense of impending permanence this time.
 Ed Schultz, a social worker who became domestic partner to Steve Berlin last year, plans to go to City Hall on July 10. ''Marriage has a certain dignity,'' Mr. Schultz said. ''When I go to work and say, 'I'm domestically partnered,' that's something different than saying, 'I'm married.' ''
 Charlotte Fiorito, a wedding photographer who specializes in same-sex unions, says she did ''the 2004 crush in our rain ponchos. Now, a lot of people are planning the kind of weddings they have been waiting their whole lives for.''
 Among them are James H. Bainton and Jeffrey Rueda, both 40 and doctors, who were about to send out letterpress invitations to their commitment ceremony at a Napa Valley vineyard when the Supreme Court ruled last month that gay men and lesbians had a constitutional right to marry. The invitation to their ''commitment ceremony'' was quickly changed to ''wedding.''
 ''We're still in the shaping mode,'' Mr. Bainton said of the nuptials, with 100 guests, to take place beside a pond in fields of sage and lavender at the height of August tomato season. ''This increases the meaning of it. It feels like we're sitting here making history.''
 While not quite a gold rush, businesses like Enchanted Elopements and myqueerwedding.com are popping up.
 And across the state, there is a sense of the birth of new rituals. Steve Pougnet, the openly gay mayor of Palm Springs, plans to hold a citywide ''marriage festival'' on June 21, having been deputized two weeks ago by the county clerk. He has two dozen weddings lined up and is planning his own in the fall. Jan Felshin, 76, and Edrie Ferdun, 71, retired professors who live on Fire Island in New York, have been together 49 years. At their wedding in Mandeville Canyon, in Los Angeles, they will be joined by four other lesbian couples. 
 Not surprising, along with new rituals have come new etiquette questions. Couples whose marriages were nullified in 2004, like Joyce Feltham and Dorian Leslie Duren of Palo Alto, are wondering how to handle their ''encore'' wedding, a new breed here as couples embark on their second or third public pledge to the same person. ''How do we tell people who brought gifts the first time not to feel obligated to bring another one?'' Ms. Duren asked.
 Peggy Post, the etiquette expert and author, who is based in Vermont, said the legalization of same-sex weddings, if it held, was bound to bring about changes in the ritual, the same way, she said, that brides now walk down the aisle with stepfathers, not just their fathers, and that a white dress has come to signify ''the color of joy,'' not just virginity.
 So it will be too, when same-sex couples are pronounced ''spouses for life.'' 
 Armistead Maupin, one of the city's most famous authors, became married in Vancouver, British Columbia, last year to his partner, Christopher Turner, and will probably marry him again in California, he said.
 ''Straight people have grown up thinking they're entitled to a fairy-tale wedding,'' Mr. Maupin said. ''One of our great advantages as gay people is that we've been forced to forge relationships without that fantasy. In doing so, we've figured out what's at the core.'' 
 He continued, ''Our relationships supported us during the AIDS epidemic. We know what it means to have another person stand by you.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 17, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about preparations by the California tourist industry for an influx of gay couples planning to marry this summer misstated the occupation of a man who plans to marry in San Francisco in August. Jeffrey Dreiblatt is part of the Web team at PricewaterhouseCoopers; he is not a Web designer. The article also misstated the given name of his partner. He is William Walker, not Willie.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jan Felshin, left, and Edrie Ferdun, retired professors who live on Fire Island in New York, have been together 49 years. They plan a wedding in Los Angeles.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
James H. Bainton, left, Jeffrey Rueda, right, with the Rev. Blane Ellsworth during a recent wedding planning session.
 Cosette Trautman-Scheiber tidying a room in the Hope-Merrill House in Geyserville, Calif., which has elopement packages.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); WEDDING & NEWLYWEDS MARKET (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); MARRIAGE LAW (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); BOATING & RAFTING (65%); TOUR PACKAGES (65%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (65%); MARKET RESEARCH (64%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (64%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (64%); GASOLINE (64%); LEISURE TRAVEL (60%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



335 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Iowa's Disasters

 BODY:
The heaviest rains in Iowa this past week fell in the northern part of the state -- a torrential downpour in many cases, following the third-wettest May on the books. That water has been draining out of fields -- washing away soil and crops as it goes -- and into the rivers, which in the eastern half of the state flow predominantly to the southeast. Des Moines, Iowa City and Cedar Rapids have all watched as floods have approached, but it has been impossible to turn them away. Cedar Rapids and Iowa City have been engulfed. Fifty-five of Iowa's 99 counties have been declared a disaster. 
 Iowa has been experiencing disaster on several scales. There is the sudden horror of tornadoes -- the worst of which killed four Boy Scouts Wednesday night near Blencoe, on the western edge of the state. There is the steady rising of the rivers, many of them cresting well above flood stage, causing floods that recall and in some cases exceed the ones that hit the state in 1993. And there is the long-term damage to all that cropland and the economy that depends on it. 
 Farmers already had trouble getting into their fields to plant, thanks to a cold, wet spring. The corn crop would have been smaller than expected even if June had begun normally. Instead, some parts of the state have gotten more than the average annual rainfall in a single storm or two. What's washing away isn't just soil. It's also the nitrogen fertilizer that farmers add to the soil to make corn grow. That dark, nutrient-saturated flood will soon be making its way down the Mississippi where it will add to the dead zone in the Gulf of Mexico. 
 Yields per acre will surely drop, as will the corn crop in Iowa and across much of the Midwest. Corn prices are already at historic highs and are expected to top $8 a bushel by harvest. A year ago, farmers, traders and economists were worrying about corn at $3.50 a bushel. These prices will severely strain the industries that depend on cheap, abundant corn, especially the ethanol industry and factory farms that rely on subsidized feed. Farmers and city-dwellers will be feeling the effects of this disastrous season for a long time to come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); CORN FARMING (89%); AGRICULTURE (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (73%); FERTILIZERS (72%); CORN MARKETS (70%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (70%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (66%); BIOFUELS (65%); ALCOHOLS (65%); FACTORY FARMS (50%); ETHANOL (50%)

COMPANY: CEDAR RAPIDS & IOWA CITY RAILWAY CO (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (83%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (93%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (88%) IOWA, USA (96%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



336 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosure Filings Climb, With a Peak Possible by Fall

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The number of homeowners swept up in the housing crisis rose last month, with foreclosure filings up nearly 50 percent compared with a year earlier, a foreclosure listing company said Friday. 
 Nationwide, 261,255 homes received at least one foreclosure-related filing in May, up 48 percent, from 176,137, in the same month a year ago and up 7 percent from April, the listing company, RealtyTrac, said.
 One in every 483 households received a foreclosure filing in May, the highest number since RealtyTrac started the report in 2005 and the second-consecutive monthly record.
 Foreclosure filings increased from a year earlier in all but 10 states, with Arizona, California, Florida, Michigan and Nevada having the highest statewide foreclosure rates.
 Metropolitan areas in California and Florida accounted for 9 of the top 10 areas with the highest rate of foreclosure. That list was led by Stockton, Calif., and the Cape Coral-Fort Myers area in Florida.
 RealtyTrac monitors default notices, auction sale notices and bank repossessions. Nearly 74,000 properties were repossessed by lenders nationwide in May, while more than 58,000 received default notices, the company said.
 In Nevada, one in every 118 households received a foreclosure-related notice last month, more than four times the national rate. In California, one in every 183 households faced foreclosure.
 The combination of weak housing sales, falling home values, tighter mortgage lending criteria and a slowing economy has left distressed homeowners with few options to avoid foreclosure.
 Rick Sharga, RealtyTrac's vice president for marketing, said foreclosures were unlikely to peak until this fall, as more loans made to borrowers with poor credit records reset at higher levels. ''I don't think we've seen the high point,'' he said.
 About 50 to 60 percent of borrowers who receive foreclosure filings will probably lose their homes, Mr. Sharga said. The rest are likely to be able to sell or refinance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REPOSSESSION (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HOME PRICES (73%); AUCTIONS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT MYERS, FL, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEVADA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



337 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: A Reason to Pop the Cork

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL

DATELINE: MAGNEUX, France 

 BODY:
Jean-Michel Petit, a third-generation beet farmer in this village, yearns to trade his earthy roots for the sparkle of Champagne. 
 ''I'd plant the maximum amount of grapevines if I could,'' Mr. Petit said, beaming at the prospect of tender pinot noir vines lining the chalky soil of his farm in northeastern France. 
 Mr. Petit and the roughly 200 inhabitants of Magneux are part of an eager group of outsiders pressing to join the elite growers of the $7 billion Champagne industry. 
 A nearly eight-decade-old rule that delineates the official Champagne zone is about to be changed to include new territory, potentially allowing farmers like Mr. Petit to sell grapes for Champagne with the French seal of approval, the ''Appellation d'Origine Controlee,'' or A.O.C. 
 Traditionally, Champagne could be grown only in a part of the Champagne region. But with global demand for sparkling wine soaring, putting pressure on limited supplies, the French authorities are opening what could be the largest wave of expansion of Champagne vineyards in nearly a century. Potentially, the expansion could increase annual production by 100 million bottles, to 430 million. 
 The major Champagne houses support the expansion plan, which is in its appeals stage until Friday. Without more vineyards, they fear customers could revolt against rising Champagne prices, edging above $35 for nonvintage bottles of Moet & Chandon and $40 for Veuve Clicquot in the United States.
 Already, sales in the United States have been dropping because of an economic slowdown and the weak dollar, which makes euro-denominated French exports more expensive. Last year, shipments of Champagne to the United States dipped by more than 6 percent, to 21.7 million bottles, after steady growth dating from 2001. Sales have continued to fall this year. 
 ''The euro is rising and the dollar is falling, and soon we'll have a real structural problem if the cost of the grape keeps increasing every year,'' said Ghislain de Montgolfier, the departing president of the Champagne maker Bollinger and leader of the Union of Champagne Houses, a trade industry group. 
 Within the elite world of Champagne makers, there is discreet debate about shifting strategies in the United States, including possibly reducing volumes or shipping bottles to other countries with stronger currencies. 
 Boizel Chanoine Champagne, for example, closed its subsidiary in New York. ''The U.S. today is not our priority,'' Celine Voide of Boizel said. ''We prefer to concentrate on Europe and Asia.''
 Customers in the United States are facing a ''double whammy,'' according to Juan Banaag, an international research manager for Impact Databank, which tracks the industry. He pointed to the weak dollar and price increases passed along by Champagne makers who paid higher prices for the 2007 grape harvest because of high demand and limited supply. 
 But in the bucolic Champagne region, where tidy rows of grapevines and windblown wheat fields mark the division between those who have the Champagne appellation and those who do not, there is little concern about ebbing demand in the United States or Britain. 
 New markets beckon. Prosperous middle classes have emerged in China, India and Russia, where sales rose to one million bottles in 2007, almost 43 percent more than the previous year. 
 Some small, high-end champagne makers are doing so well that they have stopped taking orders for their latest vintage. 
 Cyril Janisson, a fifth-generation Champagne maker, increased production at his family's winery, Janisson Baradon & Fils, to 95,000 bottles last year, a 17 percent rise, but quickly sold out with standing orders. ''There's more demand than we can produce,'' Mr. Janisson said, standing in the cool darkness of the family's winery in Epernay, one of the centers of the Champagne region. 
 Neat rows of Champagne bottles, on reserve for major customers, are marked with the names of importers from Britain, Norway and Japan, where consumers favor a special vintage of the winery's Vendeville Brut, labeled with a pink heart and Japanese lettering. 
 The Janisson family's Champagne is aged the old-fashioned way in oak barrels, but Mr. Janisson -- an indefatigable blogger -- maintains ties to his major customers around the world with a click of his computer keyboard. 
 The current Champagne growing region encompasses a patchwork of territory sprawling over 87,000 acres, in 319 villages. In March, a team of experts appointed by the French government approved more than 40 more communes, or communities, to add to the Champagne territory, zones that are now the subject of final appeals. 
 In preparation, some major Champagne houses, which buy most of their grapes from independent growers, are quietly scouting for fresh land, according to people in the industry who did not want to be identified because the government experts had not finished with the appeals period. Companies do not want to discuss possible land purchases for the same reasons.
 ''We deliberately chose not to communicate at this stage,'' said Jean Berchon, a spokesman for Moet & Chandon, the leading wine grower in the Champagne region and the largest purchaser of grapes from the region's 15,000 independent growers. 
 The same cannot be said for the region's villages, especially those passed over by French authorities -- like Magneux. Quiet jockeying to join the club is still taking place, even though the appeals period closes in less than a week. 
 Magneux, a poor hamlet of stone houses, bombed during World War II, was stunned when neighboring villages were approved but it was overlooked. 
 Most residents commute to Reims or Epernay to find work, according to Magneux's new mayor, Sylvain Dukic, who himself commutes to the University of Reims, where he is a researcher. 
 ''We're a village of workers, and we would all like to share in the wealth that Champagne brings to other towns,'' Mr. Dukic said, noting that his commune was pressing an appeal. 
 Magneux was one of a collection of about eight communities that joined together to hire four students to prepare a dossier exploring the history, climate, geography and soil of the area, along with records showing that pinot noir grapes were actually grown there before the last Champagne designation was imposed in 1927. 
 Jean-Pierre Pinon, mayor of Fismes, helped to organize Magneux and the other communities to promote their suitability for Champagne vineyards. But he is reluctant to celebrate his town's inclusion in the new territory until the government panel issues its final conclusions. 
 ''There's no euphoria and no Champagne here because people are superstitious until the decision is definitive,'' Mr. Pinon said as he strolled among vendors during his town's annual festival of flowers in May. ''I've tried to work as discreetly as possible on this.'' 
 That is not easy, given the possible economic effect of the decision. Mr. Pinon estimated that the value of a hectare of land, about two and a half acres, designated for Champagne could jump to almost 1 million euros, from 6,000 euros, or a little under $10,000, if the Champagne market remained strong. 
 Some constituents are not waiting for the government's final decision to celebrate their town's good fortune. 
 ''The impact will be enormous,'' said Jose Charlier, operator of Cafe de l'Etoile, a bistro steps from the gothic city hall. ''Have you seen the houses in the Champagne area? It's magnificent. People have fixed up their homes, and it's all thanks to Champagne.'' 
 With the music of the Fismes flower festival drowning out his words, Mr. Charlier retreated into his bustling cafe. Minutes later he returned with a chilled bottle of Champagne and flutes for customers. 
 He smiled broadly at the satisfying pop and whoosh of a cork sailing through the air. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fields near Venteley, France, that may become vineyards if the village is accepted into the expanded Champagne region. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OWEN FRANKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C 1)
 At the Bar de l'Hotel de Ville in Fismes, France. Some residents are celebrating the town's inclusion in the Champagne zone. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OWEN FRANKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C 4) MAP: The Champagne Region of France. (C 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAPE VINEYARDS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); FAMILY FARMS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); WINERIES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); US DOLLAR (86%); WINE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BEVERAGE PRICES (78%); EURO (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

COMPANY: LANSON-BCC SA (80%); VEUVE CLICQUOT PONSARDIN SA (54%)

TICKER: LAN (PAR) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (80%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHAMPAGNE-ARDENNE, FRANCE (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



338 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: In Midwest, Rising Waters and Fears of Worse

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY and MONICA DAVEY; Susan Saulny reported from Cedar Rapids, and Monica Davey from Chicago.

DATELINE: CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa 

 BODY:
All around the Midwest, the water just kept rising. 
 Even as this city was nearly shuttered on Friday, its sandbagged downtown submerged in the biggest flood ever recorded here, people in Des Moines began evacuating and other Iowa towns thought about it. In Wisconsin, stretches of major roads were closed and tornadoes struck. Some in Michigan had no power. Elsewhere, there was no train service, no drinking water, no end in sight. 
 The economic costs of the devastating floods were also beginning to seep in: tourism officials, who depend on the short summers, were bracing for washed-out seasons; farmers in many states stared out at ponds that had once been their fields of beans and corn; and officials were preparing to shut down 315 miles of the Mississippi River, a crucial route for millions of tons of coal, grains and steel. 
 By now, one prospect -- a notion no one wants to ponder but is impossible to avoid -- has begun to emerge in Iowa, as well as in Indiana, Minnesota and Illinois: the possibility that this summer might prove to be something like 1993, when the torment of flooding resulted in widespread personal misery and loss, as well as economic cost of $20 billion. 
 ''Right now, we can't see anything as devastating as 1993 along the Mississippi, but we're gearing up,'' said Ron Fournier, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers' district in the central Midwest, which just ordered three million more sandbags, 25 large pumps and a vast array of extra supplies. 
 ''The hard part is as simple as not knowing how much rain we'll get,'' Mr. Fournier said. ''Beyond what we saw 24 hours ago, and what we predict in the next 24 hours, we just don't know what's coming. We want the rain to stop.''
 In this eastern Iowa city of more than 120,000, the rain had stopped by early Friday morning. In fact, the sun was out. But as the Cedar River crested at more than 31 feet -- far higher than it had been in 1993, when it reached more than 19 feet -- residents, rain-weary after several drenching weeks, seemed skeptical of the authorities' suggestion that the worst might be over. 
 ''If there's one more drop of rain, I'll be looking to pack up some stuff,'' said Fernando Albino, 36, who sat outside his second-floor apartment, staring at the lapping waters just down the block. 
 Lia Mikesell took her three children on a walk to the water near their apartment building, and reflected back on 1993. ''I've never seen anything like this in my life,'' she said. 
 Remarkably, officials have reported no flood-related deaths in this city, and only one injury -- a twisted ankle. But the effects have been felt all around. Many businesses were closed. A hospital sent its 176 patients, including babies and the elderly, to other facilities. More than 15,000 people had no power. And Cedar Rapids' water shortage remained severe, prompting officials from the chamber of commerce to issue a plea on Friday that businesses suspend heavy water use, lest the city impose mandatory restrictions. 
 Hotels were asked to stop refilling their pools. Restaurants were asked to use paper plates. Beauty salons were asked to cut back on shampoo. 
 While the water was expected to recede here, it may take days, perhaps weeks, and that is if it does not rain.
 ''There are going to be some trying times coming up in the near future,'' said Brian Fagan, the mayor pro tem of Cedar Rapids, who described in stark terms a boat tour he took of the most heavily flooded areas: churches inundated above their stained glass windows, restaurants with water to the roof. The flooding has caused more than $700 million in damage here.
 Elsewhere, other rivers were still rising, and officials say the worst may be yet to come, perhaps next week. In some parts of the Midwest, more rain was forecast for the weekend, followed by, forecasters say, a period of dryness. Most of Iowa's counties were considered disaster areas, and new troubles were mounting in other states, as shelters opened, government buildings were soaked and sandbags seemed to be everywhere.
 The aptness of comparisons to the flooding of 1993 seems to depend on where one lives. In a few towns along some tributaries of the Mississippi River, the recent flooding has already done more damage; elsewhere, along the Mississippi itself, nearly every community from the Iowa-Minnesota border into parts of Missouri is above flood stage, Mr. Fournier said, but not approaching the levels of 15 years ago, when about 50,000 homes in nine states were damaged or destroyed.
 So far, weather experts said, the rain had come faster and more intensely in the weeks since late May, but not for as sustained a stretch as it did in June and July 1993. ''What would make this like 1993 is if it lasts a little longer,'' said Michael Palecki, a regional climatologist with the Midwestern Regional Climate Center.
 Along the Mississippi on Friday, the Army Corps of Engineers was closing locks that had become inoperable because of high waters, and removing electrical equipment that could be damaged. By Monday, 14 such locks will be closed, Mr. Fournier said, effectively blocking all barge traffic for more than 300 miles between Bellevue, Iowa, and Winfield, Mo. 
 ''The cost of this is easily going to be in the millions here, and that doesn't even begin to count all the ripple effects of not being able to move things,'' said Lynn Muench of the American Waterways Operators, a trade group of tugboat, towboat and barge operators and owners. Some barges already carrying loads may now get stuck en route, she said. Others may choose alternative shipping means or simply wait, she said, losing costly time.
 ''They are all concerned that 1993 is where we're heading,'' she said of her trade group members. ''It was devastating. It basically shut down the river for the whole year. It was a total loss.''
 In other areas, the economic fallout was stark. Some cornfields sat under water and wheat fields were smashed by tornadoes and high winds. The delays and troubles have pushed up commodity prices, already high. 
 ''Is there a good time for a flood? No,'' said Ernest Goss, an economist at Creighton University in Omaha. ''Is there a worse time? Yes, and this is it. This is really going to add to the pinch on the consumer nationwide and to some degree internationally.'' 
 In the Wisconsin Dells, a popular summer tourist region for Chicagoans and others, the Tommy Bartlett Show, a water ski show, reopened on Friday afternoon with jugglers, acrobats and daredevils -- but no skiers and no water. Earlier this week, some of the flooding had actually caused the waters in Lake Delton, where the skiers had performed for decades, to cut a new path and vanish, leaving a muddy lake bed.
 But even the scaled back show faced new problems as flooding elsewhere had caused major roads to be closed.
 In Cedar Rapids -- where tourism officials had, long before these events, deemed 2008 ''the year of the river'' in honor of the Cedar River -- dazed-looking families were still trickling into two shelters the Red Cross set up in public schools on Friday evening. At the Prairie High School shelter, two neighbors -- Richard Wells, 62, and Richard Branscom, 81 -- drank Cokes on a cafeteria bench. 
 Both men had only their bags of medicine. ''We couldn't get nothing out, just ourselves,'' said Mr. Branscom, a retired hotel worker, who was evacuated in a boat after the waters rose to his neck.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cedar Rapids City Hall, right, was built on an island in the middle of the Cedar River, which crested at 31 feet on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MALLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES0(A1)
A truck listed like a sinking ship in Cedar Rapids, where, before the flood, 2008 had already been called ''the year of the river.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MALLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Todd Walker and his daughter, Harmony, 1, were among those who were forced to seek dry refuge in Cedar Rapids shelters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF ROBERSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Cargill's corn milling plant in Cedar Rapids, where the economic toll of the flooding is rising. ''There are going to be some trying times coming up in the near future,'' a city official said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE POPE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A11) MAP: Midwest Flooding: Record-level flooding in the Upper Midwest has forced evacuations, closed roads and threatened drinking water.
FLOODED AREAS ON FRIDAY (Source: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
National Weather Service
 Associated Press)(A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); RIVERS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); TORNADOES (72%); ENGINEERING (64%); ARMIES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (94%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%) MIDWEST USA (95%); IOWA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



339 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Says It Plans To Revisit Abduction Cases

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
North Korea said Friday that it would reopen an investigation into abductions of Japanese citizens, reversing its longstanding position that the issue had been settled. 
 In return, Japan announced that it had agreed to lift some sanctions imposed on the North for its nuclear program, including the ban on travel between the countries, but that more serious sanctions would stay in place. 
 The Japanese announcement, which followed two days of bilateral talks in Beijing this week, was the first sign in years of even a slight thaw between the countries. Although both sides made very minor concessions, they offered a possible way to resolve the abductions dispute, which has long complicated the six-nation talks over the North's nuclear weapons program and has strained the relations between the governments in Tokyo and Washington. 
 ''With North Korea's promise to reinvestigate, the process of resolving the abductions problem has resumed,'' said Nobutaka Machimura, Japan's chief cabinet secretary. ''It's a certain amount of movement forward, but it's not overall progress.'' 
 Mr. Machimura added that Japan would not change its decision to remain outside of a six-nation agreement to provide North Korea with energy assistance in return for the North's giving up its nuclear program. 
 In a short statement, North Korea's official news agency said only that the North ''will reinvestigate the abduction issue.'' But it gave no indication as to whether it would budge on its stance that there are no Japanese abductees left there, as Japan insists. 
 Yang Moon-soo, an economist at the University of North Korean Studies in Seoul and an expert on relations between Japan and North Korea, said the North's shift on the abductions issue seems to have resulted in part from its improving relations with the United States.
 ''North Korea desperately wants to be taken off the United States' list of state sponsors of terrorism,'' Mr. Yang said. ''But Japan has opposed that unless the abductions issue was resolved. 
 ''The issue had become a bottleneck, so this is a step in the right direction,'' he added. ''But a lot will depend on how North Korea actually conducts this reinvestigation.'' 
 Of the participants in the six-nation talks, Japan has long taken the hardest line against the North and, to its bewilderment, has watched the Bush administration abandon its confrontational approach to the government in Pyongyang in favor of full-fledged negotiations since early 2007. The other participants are China, South Korea and Russia. 
 North Korea also suggested that it may hand over Japanese radicals who hijacked a Japan Airlines airplane in 1970 and are still living in the North. 
 For decades, the North denied responsibility for the disappearance of Japanese citizens in the 1970s and 1980s, despite Japanese news reports that agents had been spotted on Japanese soil.
 But during a visit to Pyongyang in 2002 by former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, the North's leader, Kim Jong-il, admitted that North Korean agents had kidnapped 13 Japanese as part of a program to train Japanese-speaking spies. 
 The North released five of them along with their children, but said the other eight had died over the years. 
 Japan has said that it believes that some of them may still be alive and that there may be other abductees in North Korea. The abductions became a highly emotional and politicized issue in Japan, one used by the Japanese right to whip up anger against the North and to argue for Japan's remilitarization. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A relative of a Japanese citizen abducted by North Korea sought information Friday at a government building in Tokyo.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM KYUNG-HOON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HIJACKING (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TERRORISM (61%); MILITARY WEAPONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%) JAPAN (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



340 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ONLINE: MOST POPULAR; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 108 words

 BODY:
Following are the most popular business news articles on nytimes.com from June 6 through June 13:
 1. Apple Aims for the Masses With a Cheaper iPhone
 2. Rural U.S. Takes Worst Hit as Gas Tops $4 Average
 3. To Save Fuel, Airlines Find No Speck Too Small
 4. The Food Chain: Worries Mount as Farmers Push for Big Harvest
 5. Oil Prices Take a Nerve-Rattling Jump Past $138
 6. Job Losses and Oil Surge Spread Economic Gloom
 7. American Military Supercomputer Sets Speed Record 
 8. Smartphones Now Ringing for Women
 9. Fictional Stars Get a 21st Century Facelift
 10. Not Quite an iPhone, but New Sony Offering Is Still Very Smart 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMARTPHONES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



341 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: City and Labor Leaders Reach Deal on Plan to Develop Willets Point

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration has forged an unusual pact with labor leaders, promising that in exchange for their support of the city's ambitious plan to transform Willets Point, a 62-acre enclave of auto repair shops and cinder block sheds near Shea Stadium, the project will provide union jobs and good wages.
 Union leaders hailed the agreement as a template for similar pacts with city and state officials, even as the Real Estate Board of New York, the industry's powerful lobbying arm, criticized it. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has promoted a $3 billion plan to raze the area, which is often flooded when it rains, to create a vast neighborhood of office buildings, hotels, parks, restaurants, retail shops and up to 5,500 apartments. 
 But some local civic groups, property owners and elected officials have opposed the plan because it calls for displacing about 260 small businesses, possibly through eminent domain. Housing groups like Acorn and some union leaders have also pushed for more housing that would be affordable for low- and middle-income New Yorkers.
 After months of negotiations, the city recently completed a deal with unions representing construction workers and building service and retail workers. In return for their support, the Bloomberg administration essentially promised to require that developers use union construction contractors and pay union wages to building service workers like doormen and security guards.
 The city also agreed to look favorably upon developers who propose job-intensive businesses at Willets Point that would pay at least $10 an hour. At the same time, the city said it would discourage ''suburban models of big-box stores,'' a reference to Home Depot and Wal-Mart.
 ''The transformation of Willets Point is one of the city's most important economic development projects today, and the fact that we were able to come to an agreement on it with organized labor is good news,'' said Deputy Mayor Robert C. Lieber. ''We'll continue to work closely with community and advocacy groups, elected officials, labor and the private sector to ensure the transformation of this blighted area results in the right balance of good jobs, affordable housing and sustainable design while remaining economically feasible.''
 The support of organized labor for the administration's initiative is vital because the City Council must approve zoning changes to make it possible. Labor is particularly influential in the Council, providing votes and campaign contributions to many members.
 The city also hopes to relocate some of the existing businesses in Willets Point, in order to quell the opposition, and establish job-training centers for workers who would lose their jobs as a result of the project. City Councilman Hiram Monserrate, who represents nearby Elmhurst, withdrew his support for the project in February, complaining about the loss of existing jobs and the use of eminent domain. Mr. Monserrate did not return calls seeking comment on the agreement. 
 Gary La Barbera, president of the New York City Central Labor Council, an umbrella organization for the city's labor unions, described the agreement as historic. 
 ''This is a step in the right direction,'' said Mr. La Barbera, whose organization represents about 1.2 million workers. ''It's a template for future projects. While we support economic development, we believe it should lead to real jobs that pay real wages, so that people who live and work in the city can also experience the economic advantages.'' 
 Some city officials and even a few union officials were less convinced about the ''historic'' nature of the agreement, saying it was always likely that union contractors would do the work at Willets Point.
 Edward J. Malloy, the president of the Building and Construction Trades Council, which represents about 120,000 union workers, conceded that point, but said that by working with Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union they could ensure that building and retail workers would get better-paying jobs. The city also agreed to discourage so-called big-box retailers, which are largely nonunion.
 But Steven Spinola, the president of the Real Estate Board, said that that could be a serious mistake. ''I don't know how anybody could agree to do that,'' he said. ''You've just dramatically cut the universe of tenants that could occupy the retail space.''
 Michael Fishman, president of Local 32BJ, insisted that ''when city dollars are involved, the projects should create good jobs and affordable housing.''
 The project, which could take 10 years to complete, is nowhere close to breaking ground. The city is in the process of rezoning the area, which requires approval by the City Council and will most likely take until the end of the year. At that point, the city will solicit bids from developers.
 Willets Point will need an expensive remediation program to deal with the pollution on the site and to raise the level of the land above the flood plain.
 After supporting many of Mr. Bloomberg's redevelopment plans around the city for six years, union leaders went to City Hall last November saying that the real estate boom had generated luxury housing and a lot of low-paying jobs, while severely reducing the amount of housing for working-class families. The mayor rebuffed their proposal for wide-ranging policy changes on real estate development. But he adopted a project-by-project approach after some unions began working with the City Council against Willets Point and other city initiatives.

GRAPHIC: MAP: Willets Point, a 62-acre area in Queens, may be razed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); EMINENT DOMAIN (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ZONING (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RETAILERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); LOBBYING (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); RELOCATIONS (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (62%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (61%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



342 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Gas Prices and the Poor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Rural U.S. Takes Worst Hit as Gas Tops $4 Average'' (front page, June 9) paints a grim picture for many hard-working Americans. With more gas price increases on the horizon, things will likely only get worse before they get better. 
 Is there an immediate solution for the rural working class and working poor? Not really, not if you don't have the means. So, for now, these folks are effectively stranded as the price tide rises around them, the latest victims of our not having any sort of effective or rational national energy policy.
 This reminds me of the pre-storm response to Hurricane Katrina, where those with money and means left New Orleans, and those without were left to suffer because they were poor and living in the wrong parts of town. The scale of suffering in New Orleans seemed huge at the time, but just might pale in comparison with the economic hardship being silently exacted on rural Americans now and in the foreseeable future.
 Matt M. Huston Seattle, June 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



343 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Booming China Leads the World in Emissions of Carbon Dioxide, a Study Finds

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
China has clearly overtaken the United States as the world's leading emitter of carbon dioxide, the main heat-trapping gas, a new study has found, its emissions increasing 8 percent in 2007. The Chinese increase accounted for two-thirds of the growth in the year's global greenhouse gas emissions, the study found.
 The report, released Friday by the Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency, found that in 2007 China's emissions were 14 percent higher than those of the United States. In the previous year's annual study, the researchers found for the first time that China had become the world's leading emitter, with carbon emissions 7 percent higher by volume than the United States in 2006. 
 Many experts had been skeptical of the earlier study, whose results were less clear-cut than those released Friday. The International Energy Agency had continued to say only that China was projected to overtake the United States by the end of 2007. Now there is little doubt. 
 ''The difference had grown to a 14 percent difference, and that's indeed quite large,'' said Jos Olivier, a senior scientist at the Dutch agency. ''It's now so large that it's quite a robust conclusion.'' 
 China's emissions are most likely to continue growing substantially for years to come because they are tied to the country's strong economic growth and its particular mix of industry and power sources, the researchers said.
 China is heavily dependent on coal and has seen its most rapid growth in some of the world's most heavily polluting industrial sectors: cement, aluminum and plate glass. 
 Twenty percent of China's emissions come from its cement kilns, essential for its construction boom and likely to be working overtime this year amid preparations for the Olympics and rebuilding after last month's devastating earthquake. 
 The Dutch agency's findings were based on recently published information on cement production and on energy use from the oil company BP.
 The United States still has a vast lead in carbon dioxide emissions per person. The average American is responsible for 19.4 tons. Average emissions per person in Russia are 11.8 tons; in the European Union, 8.6 tons; China, 5.1 tons; and India, 1.8 tons.
 Experts said the new data underscored the importance of getting China to sign on to any new global climate agreement. Neither China nor the United States participated in the current treaty to limit emissions, the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012 and will be replaced by a new agreement to be signed in Copenhagen at the end of 2009. 
 On Friday in Bonn, Germany, 2,000 world leaders concluded two weeks of negotiations on what kind of agreement should replace the Kyoto Protocol. United Nations leaders told them to ''pick up the pace.''
 ''With a little more than a year to go to Copenhagen, the challenge to come to that agreement remains daunting,'' said Yvo de Boer, executive secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Late last year, a United Nations panel of scientific experts warned that the world had only a few years to reverse a growing emissions trend in order to avoid severe consequences of global warming, from a large rise in sea level to species death. 
 ''Everyone recognizes that we're only going to get to an answer by addressing issues in all countries, including China,'' Mr. de Boer said. 
 Still, he added that China had been ''acting progressively on environmental policy'' in the past year, developing plans to shut down highly polluting small- and medium-size industries and to find more alternative energy, for example. 
 Orville Schell, director of the Center on U.S.-China Relations at the Asia Society in New York, said the Dutch study ''was something of a harbinger of things to come, namely, of China's uncontested pre-eminence in this world of rapidly growing greenhouse gas emissions.'' 
 The Asia Society has started a bilateral climate change initiative that includes groups like the Pew Center on Global Climate Change and involves leaders in both countries, including Al Gore. 
 ''There cannot be a solution to the global climate change questions without China being integrally involved,'' Mr. Schell said. But he added that Chinese leaders would not become more engaged unless the United States also made new commitments.
 The Dutch researchers said there were some signs that China's rapid emissions trajectory would be somewhat blunted this year, although they still predicted rapid growth. Its emissions rose 8 percent in 2007, compared with more than 11 percent annually for the previous two years.
 In comparison, emissions in the original 15 European Union member states fell 2 percent in 2007, though Dr. Olivier, at the Dutch agency, cautioned that this drop was at least partly attributable to a warm winter that reduced the need for heating. 
 But with high oil and gas prices this year, other forces favor emissions growth in the future. High oil prices have created a resurgence in interest in coal-fired power plants for industry, which are heavily polluting.
 Eighty percent of the world's coal demand comes from China, according to the International Energy Agency, which advises industrialized nations on energy policy. But the United States is also a major user of coal to power its industry.
 ''It is crucial for countries like China and the United States to explore technologies to deal with that,'' said Mr. de Boer, referring specifically to projects that would pump emissions underground instead of into the atmosphere.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 20, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the growth in greenhouse-gas emissions from China referred incorrectly to carbon dioxide. It is the main heat-trapping gas produced by human activity; it is not the main heat-trapping gas in the atmosphere, which is H20 water vapor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Beijing, shrouded in smog on Friday, has heavy air pollution, as does much of the rest of China.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GUANG NIU/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (83%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); CEMENT MFG (63%); NATURAL DISASTERS (62%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); EARTHQUAKES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



344 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Making City Buses Run Cleaner Yields a Big Bonus: Fewer Trips to the Gas Pump

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
When you buy 55 million gallons of diesel fuel a year to power some 5,000 buses, even small improvements in fuel efficiency can make a big difference. 
 For several years, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority has been on a mission to cut the amount of pollution coming from its buses, buying ones with hybrid engines and switching to a cleaner type of diesel fuel. As part of that drive to cut emissions, it has also pushed to get more mileage out of every gallon of diesel fuel. And now with the price of fuel soaring, the authority is reaping an additional benefit from that greater efficiency. 
 ''All this was done for emissions, and fuel economy came along with it,'' said Gary A. LaBouff, the director of research and development for the department of buses at New York City Transit. ''We didn't anticipate $4 a gallon diesel.'' 
 The authority is in the midst of a financial crisis, with declining tax revenues pinching its budget from one side and increased fuel costs from the other. In April alone, the authority spent $8.7 million more than it had budgeted for fuel (including for diesel locomotives), which was 56 percent above the budgeted amount.
 That puts a premium on fuel efficiency. 
 One of the ways the authority hopes to improve its fuel efficiency is through a new type of lithium-ion battery for its hybrid buses. 
 The 824 hybrid buses currently on the road power their electric motors with batteries similar to traditional acid and lead car batteries. Those batteries weigh a lot and require more maintenance than officials had anticipated when they first began deploying large numbers of the hybrids about four years ago. 
 The new lithium-ion batteries, which were not available at the time, are similar to the batteries in rechargeable drills and other hand tools. They have been installed on four buses that have been on the road as part of a test program since January. 
 Earlier this week, at the Manhattanville bus depot on 133rd Street, mechanics removed a metal cover on the top of bus No. 6401 to reveal a large container that the mechanics call a battery tub. Inside were more than 2,000 paper-wrapped batteries about the size of a typical C battery, stacked up in neat rows. 
 ''It's like a whole bunch of flashlight batteries put together,'' Mr. LaBouff said. 
 While they might evoke jokes about the Energizer Bunny, the lithium cells work better than the older acid and lead batteries. They charge faster, Mr. LaBouff said, deliver more power and, it is hoped, will last longer and require less maintenance. The authority has ordered 850 new hybrid buses. The first ones, scheduled to arrive this summer, will have the old-style batteries, but by next year they will begin arriving with the lithium-ion cells.
 Mr. LaBouff said that a tub of lithium-ion batteries was lighter than a tub of the old acid and lead batteries and would shave about 3,000 pounds from the weight of a 16-ton hybrid bus. That promises a significant boost in fuel efficiency, since a lighter vehicle gets more mileage from a gallon of fuel. 
 The authority's old-fashioned diesel buses get about 2.5 miles per gallon, Mr. LaBouff said. The current fleet of 825 hybrid buses gets 3.2 miles per gallon (the buses thrive on stop-and-go traffic, since the braking action charges the batteries). The authority expects the lithium-ion hybrids to get about 3.5 miles per gallon. 
 The lithium-ion batteries cost more than their predecessors, but the authority hopes to come out ahead. It estimates that fewer hours spent on maintenance and better gas mileage will result in $50,000 in savings per bus over their 12-year life span. 
 Another initiative that could eke a little more distance out of each gallon of fuel is under way in Brooklyn, where sharp-eyed passengers may notice that many buses now have green caps on the tire valves. 
 The green valve caps indicate that the tires have been filled with pure nitrogen, a gas that is a component of air. Special compressors at several bus depots extract nitrogen from the air and store it in tanks to be pumped into the tires.
 Studies have shown that nitrogen is better for tires than plain air, according to Stephen Martini, the assistant chief officer of maintenance for the department of buses. Nitrogen leaks from the tires at a slower rate, meaning they have to be filled less often. And the pressure in nitrogen-filled tires is more likely to remain constant despite fluctuations in temperature. Normally, the pressure in air-filled tires rises as they heat up and falls as they cool. 
 Maintaining an optimum pressure should increase the life of tires by about 10 percent, which is a primary goal of the program, Mr. Martini said. But it should also mean a small improvement in fuel mileage. 
 Mr. LaBouff said there were other initiatives under way that could contribute small tweaks to the bus fleet's fuel efficiency. They include an adjustment to lower the acceleration rate on hybrid buses and a change in the buses' software to make the engine run more economically. He said the authority had also begun using a fuel additive devised to improve engine efficiency. 
 For all that, Mr. LaBouff said he did not have an estimate of how much money the fuel efficiency gains were saving the authority, especially with the cost of fuel still on the rise. 
 ''The trouble is,'' Mr. LaBouff said, with a bitter laugh, ''the dollar savings is getting better every day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A lithium battery that will go in many city buses.
John Walter at work at the Manhattanville Bus Depot. Rising prices are making fuel efficiency more important than ever.
The use of nitrogen in bus tires helps to improve fuel efficiency.
Trevor Wills, standing, and Narine Gandharry, eye batteries. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PHOTOGRAPH AT TOP RIGHT BY M.T.A.-NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIESEL FUEL (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRAINS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); POWER TOOLS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (66%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



345 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: PLAN WOULD LIFT SAUDI OIL OUTPUT TO HIGHEST EVER

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter, is planning to increase its output next month by about a half-million barrels a day, according to analysts and oil traders who have been briefed by Saudi officials. 
 The increase could bring Saudi output to a production level of 10 million barrels a day, which, if sustained, would be the kingdom's highest ever. The move was seen as a sign that the Saudis are becoming increasingly nervous about both the political and economic effect of high oil prices. In recent weeks, soaring fuel costs have incited demonstrations and protests from Italy to Indonesia. 
 Saudi Arabia is currently pumping 9.45 million barrels a day, which is an increase of about 300,000 barrels from last month. 
 While they are reaping record profits, the Saudis are concerned that today's record prices might eventually damp economic growth and lead to lower oil demand, as is already happening in the United States and other developed countries. The current prices are also making alternative fuels more viable, threatening the long-term prospects of the oil-based economy. 
 President Bush visited Saudi Arabia twice this year, pleading with King Abdullah to step up production. While the Saudis resisted the calls then, arguing that the markets were well supplied, they seem to have since concluded that they needed to disrupt the momentum that has been building in commodity markets, sending prices higher. 
 The Saudi plans were disclosed in interviews with several oil traders and analysts who said that Saudi oil officials had privately conveyed their production plans recently to some traders and companies in the United States. The analysts declined to be identified so as not to be cut off from future information from the Saudis. 
 Last week, King Abdullah also took the unprecedented step of arranging on short notice a major gathering of oil producers and consumers to address the causes of the price rally. The meeting will be held on June 22 in the Red Sea town of Jeddah.
 Oil prices have gained 40 percent this year, rising to nearly $140 a barrel in recent days and driving gasoline costs above $4 a gallon. Some analysts have predicted that prices could reach $200 a barrel this year as oil consumption continues to rise rapidly while supplies lag.
 The growing volatility of the markets, including a record one-day gain of $10.75 a barrel last week, has persuaded the Saudis that they need to step in, analysts said. 
 Tony Fratto, a White House spokesman, said, ''We would welcome any and all increases in oil production, including from Saudi Arabia.'' 
 But the measure carries some risks to the kingdom and is not guaranteed to bring down prices, analysts said. Some investors doubt that Saudi Arabia has the capacity to increase its production beyond its current levels. 
 ''This clearly represents the biggest test for them,'' said John Kilduff, a senior vice president at the brokerage firm MF Global, who said the move could backfire if investors failed to respond to the extra Saudi supplies. No other producer has the capacity to quickly expand production.
 Oil prices fell on Friday, slipping $1.88 to settle at $134.86 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after reports of the prospective Saudi increase trickled into the market. 
 Ibrahim al-Muhanna, an adviser at the Saudi petroleum ministry, declined to comment on the production increase but said that Saudi Arabia was uncomfortable with oil prices. ''Our goal is to bring back stability to the oil market,'' he said.
 Consumers are complaining that rising fuel prices are imposing a growing toll on their economies, and contributing to higher food costs. The Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, said this month that it was time ''to apply the blowtorch to the OPEC organization.'' 
 In Washington, bipartisan support is also growing to pass a law allowing the Justice Department to engage in antitrust proceedings against OPEC producers accused of curbing supplies to drive up prices.
 Pressure is also mounting in consuming countries to address record energy prices. Congress is debating measures that would tackle speculators, whom many in Washington blame for driving up commodity prices.
 When the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, of which Saudi Arabia is the most powerful member, met in March, it decided against increasing production, blaming speculators and a declining dollar, not a shortfall in supplies, for driving up oil prices.
 Saudi Arabia's unilateral policy could put it at odds with other members of the OPEC cartel. In a report from the group's secretariat on Friday, OPEC analysts said they saw no need to put more oil on the market. ''Claims that the recent surge in prices is due to a supply shortage are unjustified,'' the report said. 
 Saudi Arabia is completing a huge expansion program in its oil industry that is expected to bring its production capacity to 12.5 million barrels a day by 2009. As part of that expansion, Saudi Aramco, the country's national oil company, is planning to start soon an oil field, called Khursaniyah, with a daily production rate of 500,000 barrels. 
 The production increase, which would amount to less than 1 percent of global consumption, could be made public next week at the energy meeting, which is expected to bring together a large number of consuming and producing countries, including the United States, Russia, Britain, China, India and Japan. 
 While the meeting is not expected to achieve anything tangible, Saudi officials hope that tackling the issue publicly will break the upward momentum that is dominating oil markets. 
 ''They've created pressure on themselves to make a concrete move at this meeting,'' said Adam Robinson, an analyst at Lehman Brothers. ''But when the king calls an oil summit, the markets would do well to take heed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: King Abdullah has called a meeting to address the causes of the oil price rally. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RED SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



346 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2346 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times: June 14, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 TALKS LEAD TO HINTS OF THAW
 For Japan and North Korea
 North Korea said that it would reopen an investigation into abductions of Japanese citizens, reversing its longstanding position that the issue had been settled. In return, Japan announced that it had agreed to lift some sanctions imposed on the North for its nuclear program, including the ban on travel between the countries, the first sign in years of even a slight thaw between the countries. PAGE A6
 CHINA TOP CARBON DIOXIDE EMITTER
 A new study has found that China has clearly overtaken the United States as the world's leading emitter of carbon dioxide, the main heat-trapping gas. The report, released by the Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency, agreed with the previous year's annual study, but many experts had been skeptical of the earlier study, whose results were less clear-cut than the new findings. PAGE A5 
 PROTESTS OVER FUEL PRICES
 Fuel price increases brought anger across Asia, with thousands of truck drivers in South Korea going on strike, threatening to paralyze the country's ports and challenging the already unpopular government of President Lee Myung-bak. In Malaysia and Thailand, consumers and truckers demanding bigger fuel subsidies from their governments threatened to strike, and Thai fishermen warned that they would burn their boats. PAGE A6
 CALLS FOR MUSHARRAF'S OUSTER
 Thousands of protesters converged on the main boulevard of Islamabad, chanting and calling for the dismissal of President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan and the restoration of senior judges he dismissed. The demonstrators, who included an unusual number of women for a Muslim country, were good-natured, but they presented a challenge to the new civilian government and to Mr. Musharraf. PAGE A8
 ZIMBABWE REGIMES LOSES RULING
 A high court judge in Zimbabwe ordered the police to produce Tendai Biti, the opposition party's secretary general and chief strategist, who was arrested Thursday the moment he re-entered the country and whose whereabouts have since remained a mystery. But, a spokesman for the opposition said, ''Knowing this regime, they could easily just ignore the order and nothing else can be done.'' PAGE A6
 national
 LEGAL DRUGS MORE LETHAL
 Than Illegal Ones in Florida
 It used to be that Florida's drug problem was largely due to cocaine, as depicted in films like ''Scarface'' and ''Miami Vice.'' But now, the lethal habit is abusing prescription drugs. The Florida Medical Examiners Commission found that the rate of deaths caused by prescription drugs in Miami was three times as high as the rate of deaths caused by all illicit drugs combined. PAGE A10
 CROSSING PATHS BUT NEVER MEETING
 After several attempts to set up a meeting, Senators John McCain and Barack Obama have yet to come to an agreement on how often to meet and when any head-to-head match-ups should occur. And as the debate over debates went unresolved, the two campaigns continued to spar over the economy, with Mr. Obama sharply critical of Mr. McCain's stance on Social Security. PAGE A12
 NUN SPEAKS OUT FOR ISRAEL
 From briefs to Bibles, a former litigator with a famously aggressive Manhattan law firm, Sister Ruth Lautt, has become both effective and controversial by working the floor at religious conventions defending Israel's defensive measures, including the separation barrier. PAGE B5
 BUSINESS
 INFLATION RAISES TALK
 Of Possible Interest Increase
 Inflation hit harder in May as prices for a wide swath of consumer goods rose at their fastest pace in six months, underscoring warnings from the world's central bank and adding to a growing consensus that the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates by the end of the year in a shift of focus from supporting growth to fighting inflation. PAGE C6
 WORRIES OF OIL SHOCK IN EUROPE
 Europe fears a 1970s-style oil shock that might start an inflationary spiral. Reinforcing the fears are figures showing that hourly labor costs jumped sharply in the first quarter and are growing at their fastest pace since early 2003. A similar ripple effect occurred after the first oil shock in 1973, and it left Europe with a legacy of inflation and stagnation that took a decade to banish. PAGE C3
 EARLY WINTER WORRIES
 The rocketing price of oil is enough to make a body start thinking about winter -- if that body happens to have a house heated by oil. And the whole issue of rising expenses raises a question not easy to answer: whether it is better to spend money now to save money later. PAGE C6
 A GOAL OF MORE BUBBLY
 French authorities are about to expand the official Champagne zone. For the world, that could at some point mean 100 million more bottles of Champagne a year. For Jean-Michel Petit of Magneux, it could mean that he goes from being a third-generation beet farmer to a first-generation grape grower. PAGE C1
 metro 
 MAYOR RAISES POSSIBILITY
 Of Eliminating Tax Break
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said that the city might do away with a popular tax break for homeowners in 2009, a step he has previously said he would try to avoid. The city faces job losses on Wall Street and a $700 million bill for a police pay raise, but a tax increase could prove especially unpopular given that the city is expected to end 2008 with a $4.6 billion budget surplus. PAGE B1 
 FEARS OF BEING STRANDED
 On Roosevelt Island, the improbably peaceful sliver of pseudo-suburbia between Queens and Manhattan, the planned closing next spring of the tram while it undergoes a six-month overhaul is already causing fears that the island's single subway station will be overflowing and elderly and disabled residents will be stranded. PAGE B1 
 SPORTS
 AN AUTHOR PICKS A TOWN
 To Share in His Successes
 Last year the New Bern Bears defeated Charlotte Independence for the Class 4A high school state football championship in North Carolina. And New Bern is home to a track program that has won five of the last six state indoor and outdoor titles and has a nearly $1 million track and field facility to call home. Much of the success is due to an unlikely benefactor: Nicholas Sparks, who has achieved international fame by writing romance novels often set in this idyllic town. PAGE D1
 THE JOYS OF NOT BEING THERE
 Those with no interest in the professional basketball championship series being waged now could do worse than what George Vecsey finds himself doing of late: taking in the Euro 2008 soccer tournament being played in Austria and Switzerland. He is nowhere near it, ''and maybe that's why I'm having such a wonderful time,'' he writes in Sports of The Times. PAGE D6 
 ARTS
 A WORLD OF SPYMASTERS
 From Another Era
 The 10th of Alan Furst's series of historical spy novels is out now, ''The Spies of Warsaw.'' And like the others, Charles McGrath writes, it ''reads like the kind of book that might have been written in a Paris cafe where men with pencil-thin mustaches while away rainy winter afternoons, smoking Balkan Sobranie cigarettes and talking about the old days.'' Easy enough for an author who can teleport through time. PAGE B1 
 SHUNNING THE EMMYS
 Katherine Heigl won an Emmy last year for her work in ''Grey's Anatomy,'' but says she pulled herself from consideration this year because she ''did not feel that I was given the material this season to warrant an Emmy nomination.'' The slap -- not the first she has delivered to colleagues on a project -- seems not to have endeared her to the show's writers. PAGE B1 
 BACK TO BAROQUE
 The spectacle is back, after an absence of about a century: afternoons at the Chiesa del Gesu in Rome, amid much music and choreographed light, comes a display that is an object lesson in the religious culture of the Baroque era, when the Roman Catholic Church encouraged artists to stir the emotions and the Jesuits reveled in using theater as a pedagogical tool. PAGE B1 
 OH, THE PEOPLE YOU MEET
 Lily Tomlin, Whoopi Goldberg and others set the bar high for the type of one-woman show Alanna Ubach is doing in ''Patriotic Bitch'' at the Clurman Theater. Unfortunately high, perhaps. ''Ms. Ubach's show can't hold a candle to the very best of the genre, but a couple of characters deserve to live on,'' Anita Gates writes in her review. PAGE B3 
 Papa Was a Rolling Stone B3 
 Tosca Meets the Audience B4 
 OBITUARIES
 DR. GEORGE E. MOORE, 88
 A versatile cancer researcher, he found an early association between chewing tobacco and mouth cancer while directing the Roswell Park Cancer Institute, a state-financed research center in Buffalo. PAGE B6 
 This Weekend
 SUNDAY MAGAZINE
 Some parents want to split the child-rearing and home-keeping duties. Is it possible? Some spouses who are determined to adhere to ''equally shared parenting'' explain how they do it, minute by minute, and it's not always easy. PAGE 44
 Marlene Dumas, a Dutch painter born in South Africa whose works touch on topics like race relations and terror, is one of the world's most controversial artists. So how, exactly, did she go on to fetch the highest price of a living female painter at auction, ever? PAGE 38
 BOOK REVIEW
 Barbara Walters's much-discussed memoir, ''Audition,'' isn't quite ''Ulysses,'' but at 612 pages, it comes pretty close. She remembers how much ''fun'' it was to date Alan Greenspan (really?), her affair with Sen. Edward Brooke, and her contemptuous relationship with co-anchor Harry Reasoner. PAGE 9
 Oliver Tate is the eager-to-please 15-year-old protagonist and narrator of Joe Dunthorne's ''Submarine.'' He forges love notes to his mother from his father to enliven their struggling marriage, and goes so far as to deliberately get himself bogged down in a riverbed. Why put himself in danger? ''It gives them a sense of being alive, of being lucky,'' he says. PAGE 8
 ARTS & LEISURE
 Many an old, beloved TV show has been turned into a movie. ''Get Smart,'' the movie based on the show about the bumbling spy and starring Steve Carell, is the latest in that long -- and often underwhelming -- tradition. So how to market a movie that appeals to die-hard fans and legions of young people unfamiliar with the source material? PAGE 1
 Was the designer R. Buckminster Fuller a genius or a shameless self-promoter? (Must those two things be mutually exclusive?) A sprawling show at the Whitney Museum of American Art highlights designs of the bizarre inventions that he predicted would one day be part of everyday life. And new research suggests that a big part of Mr. Fuller's myth -- the near-suicide that became his eureka moment -- was possibly an invention, as well. PAGE 26
 TRAVEL
 This summer, that trip to Europe might be too expensive to get off the ground. In the Caribbean, though, it's the off season, with resorts and hotels slashing the prices of their winter rates, moderate temperatures and plenty of solitude. PAGE 1
 Zaragoza is the fifth-largest city in Spain, but has never had the profile of places like Granada or Toledo. Andrew Ferrin says that could change soon, with the start of Expo Zaragoza 2008, which is expected to bring seven million visitors to the city before its close in September. PAGE 3
 SUNDAY STYLES
 Melissa C. Morris's blog is called May December, so named because it details the life she leads with her wealthy husband who is 30 years her senior. But her popular site eschews the salacious tidbits one might assume such a blog would traffic in, in favor of, say, soliciting reader advice on where to place her silverware rack. PAGE 1
 When the mortgage market imploded, it dragged down with it thousands of distraught homeowners, Bear Stearns -- even Ed McMahon. The television personality and his wife have been trying to sell his Los Angeles mansion for some time after defaulting on his mortgage. But he has an advantage most people don't: he can talk about his problems on ''Larry King Live.'' PAGE 2
 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 Some shareholders of Washington Mutual, the nation's largest savings and loan, are not happy with the board's decision to go through with a $7 billion capital infusion. And the more they read the fine print, the angrier they get. Gretchen Morgenson, Fair Game. PAGE 1
 American Airlines' decision to charge passengers $15 for their first checked bag was initially criticized by other carriers. But many followed suit, with more likely to do so. What no one knows is what kind of confusion the new policy will have at the ticket counter -- or in the suddenly very-attractive overhead bins. PAGE 1
 EDITORIAL
 A MOMENT OF CLARITY
 The disconnect between Washington's stay-the-course Republicans -- President Bush and Senator John McCain, in particular -- and the Iraqi government has grown too wide to ignore. Clearly these two men are not listening to the Iraqis any more than they are listening to the American people. PAGE A16
 COURTING CONFLICT
 To do the nation's business, the Supreme Court needs a full complement of justices, fully focused on the law, and not their own bottom lines. PAGE A16
 IOWA'S DISASTERS
 Iowa has been experiencing the sudden horror of tornadoes, the steady rising of the rivers and the long-term damage to all that cropland. Farmers and city dwellers will be feeling the effects for a long time to come. PAGE A16
 OP-ED
 BOB HERBERT
 Emotional letters to Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont show the extreme anxiety, and even dread, that sky-high gasoline prices and a troubled economy are causing. PAGE A17
 GAIL COLLINS
 A five-month presidential race is a long time. The primaries were different. They went on forever, but they were almost always absorbing. Now we're down to a couple of reformers who don't like each other. It feels as if we're embarking on a very long cruise with two neighbors in the last throes of a troubled marriage. PAGE A17
 CHARLES M. BLOW
 There was a time when the biggest substance abuse threat to older women seemed to be alcoholism or prescription drug abuse. New data suggest that we probably shouldn't discount the growing use of crack cocaine and methamphetamines. PAGE A17

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (74%); STRIKES (73%); TRUCK DRIVERS (72%); POLITICS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); JUDGES (64%); ARRESTS (62%); COCAINE (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (54%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (76%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) JAPAN (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ZIMBABWE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



347 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: The Greeting Card Business Adapts to Change

BYLINE: By JUSTON JONES

 BODY:
FATHER'S DAY is Sunday, and many greeting cards that will be given out are likely to have been made by the American Greetings Corporation. Zev Weiss, the company's chief executive, says the holidays and annual events this time of year are important generators of revenue for the company, regardless of whether someone is looking for a card made of paper or a digital one to send by e-mail. 
 Mr. Weiss, 41, spoke recently about adapting to Web-oriented customers and his confidence that people will continue to buy cards in an economic slowdown. Following are excerpts: 
 Q.Springtime must be big for you. From Mother's Day to Father's Day to high school and college graduations to spring and summer weddings, everybody needs a card for something.
 A. Absolutely! We have Father's Day around the corner, graduations generate more business than people would think and people are obviously always celebrating birthdays and anniversaries, too. Father's Day, specifically, is a really fun occasion for us because many consumers like to honor dad with funny cards that reflect the relationships they have. Letting dad know how much he is appreciated, and giving him a big laugh has become synonymous with Father's Day.
 Q.Your industry is being transformed by the Web. How are you adjusting to so many people sending digital cards by e-mail and over mobile devices?
 A. If you talk to consumers -- our core customers -- it's a very different experience. Our core customer, when you talk to her, she says that an e-card is an important part of her overall social expression, but it's not viewed as a replacement of a paper card. 
 Still, we are the largest e-card provider. If you go on the Internet and send a card, it is probably one from our company. In the past year, we acquired Webshots and PhotoWorks, online photo-sharing sites. They are giving us the opportunity to tap into this growth business.
 American Greetings also owns Kiwee.com. It functions like a social networking site, like Facebook or MySpace, where members can send digital cards from our company. 
 Q.Are you generating revenues from the Web operations?
 A. We have a subscription model where customers can send e-cards or create and print cards after buying a subscription. We also have a photo model where we actually sell products like memory books. And we sell advertising as well. 
 Q.Do you know how many Web customers you have? And how much are the Web businesses contributing to your bottom line?
 A. On the subscription side, we have about 3.8 million customers. We have some of the biggest subscription-based content sites on the Internet, through BlueMountain.com and Americangreetings.com.
 On Kiwee.com last year, we had more than half a billion downloads.
 And from a revenue perspective, those businesses are generating $100 million a year. 
 Q.Last year, you started experimenting with a service for customers to send e-cards by cellphone. How is that going?
 A. We still provide that service, but it was not as big as we had hoped it would be. I think it had more to do with the fact that on the phone, the phone companies control how you package the content. On the Internet, it's simpler to get the content the way you want it. 
 Q.In your latest earnings report, you announced that your fiscal fourth quarter had swung from a loss of $12.2 million to a profit of $15.6 million. That surpassed Wall Street's expectations. What was behind that performance?
 A. We've made a lot of investments in our card business in the last couple of years and are seeing a return in that. 
 Q.Are you expecting the slowdown in the economy to weigh on your future results?
 A. It is so hard to say. When the economy is really booming, we don't ride the wave as high. We're not in the big-ticket-item business. People will still buy cards. We are not affected the same way as the housing market or luxury-goods industry. Still, we're less immune than food or pharmaceuticals.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Zev Weiss 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREETING CARD PUBLISHING (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); COMPANY REVENUES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN GREETINGS CORP (95%); PHOTOWORKS INC (52%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: AM (NYSE) (95%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS812921 PHOTOFINISHING LABORATORIES (EXCEPT ONE-HOUR) (52%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: ZEV WEISS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



348 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: OTB Dispute Seemed Near A Resolution, Until It Wasn't

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson announced a last-minute deal on Friday in which the state would take over New York City's Off-Track Betting parlors, averting a planned shutdown. But the plan appeared to fall apart almost immediately over disagreements with the Bloomberg administration over gambling revenue.
 Mr. Paterson announced the deal at a Manhattan news conference two days before Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was scheduled to shut down the city's parlors. Under the current revenue formula, Mr. Bloomberg has said, the parlors send so much money to the state and other entities that they do not have enough to meet expenses, and the city will soon be forced to subsidize them. 
 ''This isn't a tentative agreement,'' said Mr. Paterson, who was joined by Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, other lawmakers and union officials. ''We have an agreement, and we're working out a few of the details.'' 
 But those details were apparently more significant than the governor believed. Within hours, Mr. Bloomberg put out a statement saying that ''substantial legal and economic issues'' need to be settled before a deal is reached. 
 Unless those disagreements are addressed, Mr. Bloomberg said, ''we will have no choice but to go forward with our plan to close the city's OTB parlors on Sunday.''
 New York City's parlors first opened in 1971 and today take in roughly $1 billion a year in bets on races held all around the world. The profits are distributed back to the state and the city and to racetrack operators, thoroughbred breeders and others through a complex system of rules and contracts that the Bloomberg administration says has left the parlors with too little money to cover their own costs.
 City and state officials had apparently agreed in principle to a state takeover under which the public benefit corporation that runs the city's Off-Track Betting parlors would be shut down over the next 90 days and a new corporation, controlled by appointees of the governor, created to replace it.
 But state officials said that the Bloomberg administration had made a last-minute demand to continue receiving revenue from a surcharge on winning bets. The city took in about $19 million from the surcharge last year and would like to continue to receive that money, arguing that city taxpayers should receive at least some fiscal benefit from gambling parlors operated in the five boroughs.
 City officials dispute that account. They say they insisted throughout the negotiations that the city continue to receive surcharge revenue, and said the governor's office had announced the deal -- which appears to have the support of both the State Senate and the Assembly -- before any resolution was reached. 
 ''We will fight to prevent gambling operations in the city unless they provide a public benefit to the city,'' Mr. Bloomberg's statement said. ''Every other locality that has OTBs receives a benefit from them -- and our legislative representatives in Albany should ensure we do as well.'' 
 The governor's office said in a statement that the city's objection was ''distressing.'' 
 ''Host municipalities who run OTB receive a surcharge for winning bets placed at their OTBs or at tracks located in their county,'' said Risa Heller, a Paterson spokeswoman. ''The city insists that it should keep the surcharge benefit even when they are no longer running OTB and the state has taken responsibility for all liabilities.''
 Mr. Paterson did not mention the disagreement when he appeared before reporters at his Midtown office. He offered few specifics about the deal and no information about how revenue from the city's 60 parlors would be shared under any new arrangement, saying only that ''there isn't necessarily a change in the formula'' for allocating revenues.
 Instead, he emphasized that the agreement would allow the city parlors' 1,500 employees to return to work on Monday and that the gambling industry in New York City would remain afloat.
 ''If you work for OTB and you are wondering about your job, you do not have to worry anymore,'' he said.
 Because no representative of Mr. Bloomberg's attended the news conference, some reporters asked whether the deal was only a tentative one. Mr. Paterson scoffed at that notion, saying that he had spoken with Mr. Bloomberg earlier in the day and that the mayor had offered to be helpful on the takeover.
 ''No one's here from the mayor's office, there are no horses here, there's no one from OTB,'' Mr. Paterson said.
 The administration had apparently hoped to formalize the deal in legislation scheduled to be written this weekend and passed by the Legislature on Monday. It was unclear on Friday if the state could, or would, proceed with a takeover over the city's objections.
 Assemblyman J. Gary Pretlow, a Westchester Democrat and chairman of the Assembly's Committee on Racing and Wagering, who was at the news conference with Mr. Paterson, called the mayor's position unreasonable.
 ''If he doesn't want to take responsibility for the entity, it will go to the state,'' Mr. Pretlow said. ''And the entity includes the surcharge.'' He added that if the mayor did not want to give up the OTB corporation, ''We'll just take it.''
 At stake is not only the future of the city's OTB parlors but also a plan by Mr. Paterson to overhaul the state's six regional OTB corporations, which he announced at the news conference as well. 
 The governor said on Friday that he would ask Thomas P. DiNapoli, the state comptroller, to conduct a financial management audit of all OTB branches.
 Mr. Paterson also announced his appointment of State Senator John D. Sabini, a Queens Democrat, to be the new head of the state Racing and Wagering Board, which oversees the city's OTB corporation as well as those in Nassau and Suffolk Counties, the Albany area, the Catskills and western New York. 
 If his appointment is confirmed by the Senate, Mr. Sabini is expected to supervise a possible consolidation of some gambling operations, Mr. Paterson said, as well as moving the city OTB headquarters from Midtown to the Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens to save money.
 ''For far too long, racing in New York has been a shrinking pie, and yet everyone wants the same size slice,'' said Mr. Sabini, who was also at the conference. ''You can't do that. The math doesn't work. We need to make racing in New York a growth industry.''
 Mr. Paterson said Mr. Sabini would also conclude a deal to renovate and bring video lottery terminals to Aqueduct, which could bring millions of dollars in new revenue to the state's struggling racing industry. Several finalists are vying for the lucrative video lottery franchise there.
 The appointment will also have a political benefit for Mr. Paterson and other state Democrats. Mr. Sabini had been facing a tough primary challenge next fall from Councilman Hiram Monserrate, a Queens Democrat who was recently endorsed by several unions and the powerful Queens Democratic Party. Mr. Sabini's exit will help the Democrats avoid a bruising intraparty fight in a year when they have high hopes of winning control of the State Senate, where Republicans have a two-seat edge.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, joined Gov. David A Paterson at the news conference. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AIMEE MAUDE SIMS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (89%); GAMING (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MAYORS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008



349 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Letters From Vermont

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Despite the focus on the housing crisis, gasoline prices and the economy in general, the press has not done a good job capturing the intense economic anxiety -- and even dread, in some cases -- that has gripped tens of millions of working Americans, including many who consider themselves solidly middle class.
 Working families are not just changing their travel plans and tightening up on purchases at the mall. There is real fear and a great deal of suffering out there. 
 A man who described himself as a conscientious worker who has always pinched his pennies wrote the following to Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont:
 ''This winter, after keeping the heat just high enough to keep my pipes from bursting (the bedrooms are not heated and never got above 30 degrees) I began selling off my woodworking tools, snowblower, (pennies on the dollar) and furniture that had been handed down in my family from the early 1800s, just to keep the heat on.
 ''Today I am sad, broken, and very discouraged. I am thankful that the winter cold is behind us for a while, but now gas prices are rising yet again. I just can't keep up.''
 The people we have heard the least from in this epic campaign season have been the voters -- ordinary Americans. We get plenty of polling data and alleged trends, but we don't hear the voices of real people.
 Senator Sanders asked his constituents to write to him about their experiences in a difficult economy. He was blown away by both the volume of responses and ''the depth of the pain'' of many of those who wrote.
 A 55-year-old man who said his economic condition was ''very scary,'' wrote: ''I don't live from paycheck to paycheck. I live day to day.'' He has no savings, he said. His gas tank is never more than a quarter full, and he can't afford to buy the ''food items'' he would like.
 His sense of his own mortality was evident in every sentence, and he wondered how long he could continue. ''I am concerned as gas prices climb daily,'' he said. ''I am just tired. The harder that I work, the harder it gets. I work 12 to 14 hours daily, and it just doesn't help.''
 A working mother with two young children wrote: ''Some nights we eat cereal and toast for dinner because that's all I have.''
 Another woman said she and her husband, both 65, ''only eat two meals a day to conserve.''
 A woman who has been trying to sell her house for two years and described herself as ''stretched to the breaking point,'' told the senator, ''I don't go to church many Sundays because the gasoline is too expensive to drive there.''
 Many of the letters touched on the extremely harsh winter that pounded Vermont and exacerbated the economic distress. With fuel prices sky-high, many residents turned to wood to heat their homes. A woman with a 9-year-old son wrote:
 ''By February, we ran out of wood and I burned my mother's dining room furniture. ... I'd like to order one of your flags and hang it upside down at the Capitol building. ... We are certainly a country in distress.''
 Senator Sanders, an independent who caucuses with the Democrats, remarked on the disconnect between the harsh economic reality facing so many Americans and the Pollyanna claims of the Bush administration and others over the past several years.
 The assertion that the economy was strong and getting stronger, repeated with the frequency of a mantra, hid the reality that working Americans have been taking a real beating, said Senator Sanders.
 He pointed out that over the past seven or eight years, millions of Americans have lost health insurance coverage, lost pensions, and become deeply mired in debt. During that period, the median annual household income for working-age Americans fell by about $2,400.
 ''Americans work the longest hours of any people in the industrialized world,'' the senator said. ''We even surpassed Japan.''
 But despite all that hard work -- despite explosive improvements in technology and increased worker productivity -- the middle class is struggling, losing ground and there's a very real possibility that the next generation of workers will have a lower standard of living than today's.
 The letters to Senator Sanders offer a glimpse into the real lives of ordinary people in an economic environment that was sculpted to favor the very rich. One of the letters was from a woman in central Vermont who said she and her husband are in their mid-30s, are college-educated and have two young children.
 ''We are feeling distraught,'' she said, ''that we may never 'get ahead' but will always be pedaling to just keep up.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); CHILDREN (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%)

PERSON: BERNIE SANDERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



350 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING ECONOMY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Sees Light at the End of the Credit Tunnel

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
American financial markets, roiled by the collapse of the subprime-mortgage market, have shown a ''pronounced turnaround'' since March, Alan Greenspan, former chairman of the Federal Reserve, said Friday. The worst is over for the credit crisis, or will be soon, and there is now a ''reduced possibility'' of a deep recession, Mr. Greenspan said in remarks via satellite to a conference in Mexico City. His remarks echo the assessment of the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, who said this week that danger of a ''substantial downturn'' in the economy had receded. Still, the persistent slump in the housing market is putting ''major downward pressure'' on the economy, said Greenspan, who served as Fed chairman from August 1987 to January 2006. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); RECESSION (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



351 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Says Tax Rate On Property May Go Up

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
With the economy in the doldrums, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said on Friday that the city might scrap a popular tax cut for homeowners in 2009 -- a step he previously said he would try to avoid.
 The mayor's remarks come as job losses mount on Wall Street and the city faces a $700 million bill for a retroactive raise of nearly 10 percent granted to the roughly 23,000 police officers in May.
 But any change in taxes could prove politically tricky. Under pressure to roll back a big property tax increase introduced after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack, the mayor and the City Council trimmed the tax rate by 7 percent a year ago. 
 Eliminating that reduction would effectively mean a property tax increase that would cost the average New York City homeowner about $200 a year. 
 Speaking on his weekly radio call-in program, Mr. Bloomberg said that things were ''starting to get to the point where I'm not sure that we can maintain the 7 percent cut.'' 
 ''We are just not going to subsidize and stand things that we can't justify, that are not absolutely necessary,'' he said at one point. Such a tax increase could prove especially unpopular given that the city is expected to end 2008 with a $4.6 billion budget surplus, according to the city's Independent Budget Office. But the mayor's office said that those funds were already tied up in future budgets. 
 Eliminating the tax cut could also shrink the separate $400 property tax rebates many homeowners have become accustomed to, the mayor's office confirmed.
 The property tax rate and the rebates are linked under a state law, though the law could be amended to keep the $400 rebate in place. 
 Several members of the City Council immediately expressed opposition to the proposal, saying it would unduly burden homeowners at a time of rising prices for food and fuel.
 Negotiations between the Council and the mayor over the budget for fiscal 2009, which begins on July 1, are in their final stages and should be completed in the next two weeks.
 ''Middle-class families are under siege,'' said Councilman Eric N. Gioia of Queens. ''Raising their taxes now, at a time when they can least afford it, would be a mistake.''
 When Mr. Bloomberg unveiled his budget plan in May, he called for preserving the 7 percent reduction in the property tax rate, but he conceded it might have to be reversed for 2010. 
 Since then, the city's economic picture has further darkened. Wall Street firms have laid off thousands of workers, depriving the city of future taxes on their income and spending.
 The weakened economy and the police raise are expected to help create a more than $2 billion budget shortfall by 2010, the mayor's staff said. Rather than make drastic cuts over the next two years, they said, the mayor prefers to start making trims now. 
 Deputy Mayor Edward Skyler said in an interview that the property tax cut was ''dependent on favorable labor arbitration and the economy not deteriorating, and so far, both of those are going in the wrong direction.''
 Abolishing the 7 percent property tax cut would provide the city with $1.2 billion in new revenue next year, said Doug Turetsky, a spokesman for the city's Independent Budget Office.
 Mr. Bloomberg, a by-the-numbers mayor known for his rainy-day approach to budget negotiations, appears to be eyeing trouble ahead, rather than any immediate financial crisis. Mr. Turetsky said that the city ''is in pretty good shape for 2009, unless the bottom falls out on the economy.''
 Even Mr. Bloomberg acknowledged that the city could most likely balance its budget for 2009 with the current property tax cut in place, but he warned that ''we'd make next year so onerous that nobody wants to have that kind of precipitous tax raise.''
 He suggested ''a smaller'' tax increase, ''now, maybe.''
 Councilman DavidI.Weprin, chairmanof the City Council's Finance Committee, said that given the current state of the city's economy and the size of the budget surplus, there was no reason to abolish the property tax cut for 2009. 
 ''I don't think we are in crisis mode yet,'' he said. But he added that if the economic picture darkened, the Council could reverse the tax cut in the middle of 2009. 
 Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn appeared open to the possibility of tossing out the property tax cut, but said that keeping the current rate in place was ''incredibly important to all of us on the City Council. It's a priority.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); FAMILY (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); TERRORISM (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); FOOD PRICES (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



352 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Talks With U.S. on Security Pact Are at an Impasse, the Iraqi Prime Minister Says

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN; Reporting was contributed by Neil MacFarquhar from the United Nations, Steven Lee Myers from Paris, Thom Shanker from Brussels, Suadad al-Salhy and Tareq Maher from Baghdad, and an Iraqi employee of The New York Times from Karbala.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Negotiations on a long-term security agreement with the United States are at a stalemate because of American demands that compromise Iraq's sovereignty, the Iraqi prime minister said Friday.
 ''The Iraqi demands are unacceptable to the Americans, and the American demands are unacceptable to the Iraqis, and the result is that we have reached an impasse,'' the prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, said during a meeting with journalists in Jordan. ''The Iraqis will not consent to an agreement that infringes their sovereignty.'' 
 It was the first time that Mr. Maliki had spoken publicly at any length about the agreement, which has been the subject recently of acrimonious and increasingly public debate. 
 Already, intense criticism from Iraqi politicians has forced the Americans to retreat on several important issues, including immunity from prosecution for American contractors. Under the latest version of the pact, they could be subject to Iraqi law. 
 Iraq's foreign minister, Hoshyar Zebari, said that in his latest discussions, ''The Americans did agree to remove the special contractors, the security contractors, from the immunity or the protection.'' 
 A member of the Iraqi Parliament's legal committee, Iman al-Saadi, who has seen the latest draft, confirmed that contractors were no longer granted immunity. 
 The change is sure to prove controversial, because security contractors will be reluctant to continue to work in Iraq's dangerous environment if they can be prosecuted in Iraqi courts.
 The negotiations are likely to continue despite Mr. Maliki's talk of an impasse, however, said Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador to the United Nations.
 ''In negotiations about difficult issues there are phases when people get frustrated,'' he said. ''I wouldn't read too much into any particular statement at any one time. The two countries are committed to reaching an agreement.'' 
 The presumptive Republican presidential nominee, Senator John McCain, also played down the prime minister's comments.
 ''He is a politician,'' he told reporters on Friday after a town hall-style meeting in Pemberton, N.J. ''Active discussions are taking place, and it's between two sovereign countries, and I'm confident that, over time, we will reach an agreement that is in the best interests of the United States and of Iraq.''
 Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee, did not address the issue on Friday, and his campaign did not respond to requests for comment. 
 The agreement is designed to provide a legal basis for American security operations in Iraq after a United Nations mandate expires at the end of the year. The Americans have been seeking to assure that their troops have the power to conduct operations and detain suspects without the approval of the Iraqi government and to act without fear of prosecution in the Iraqi justice system. They are also seeking the authority to establish more than 50 long-term bases.
 However, Mrs. Saadi, the Parliament member who has seen the latest draft, said the Americans had also watered down the demand for bases. 
 Mr. Maliki is under pressure to show his independence from Washington and is enjoying a spike in popularity after successful military operations in Basra and the Sadr City neighborhood of Baghdad. Iraqi politicians said his comments on Friday appeared to represent an effort to stake out a bargaining position by signaling that Iraq was serious about its assertion of sovereignty. 
 Many of the concerns Mr. Maliki mentioned on Friday have also been voiced publicly in the past several weeks by prominent Shiite politicians, some from his own Dawa Party. But this is the first time that the prime minister has raised those points and described some of his major differences with the White House. 
 Although President Bush said this week that he expected negotiations to continue, he, like Mr. Maliki, faces opposition at home over his effort to sign an agreement with significant long-term implications. 
 Both leaders' parties face substantial challenges in elections this fall, so they have to proceed carefully, mindful of the political dangers of negotiating sensitive measures in an election year. 
 In both countries, moreover, major factions oppose the agreement altogether. In the United States, a number of Democratic members of Congress have argued that the agreement will limit the latitude of the next president, and that it is unfair to move forward without Congressional approval. 
 In Iraq, the bloc aligned with the rebel Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, who has a significant following among the poor, opposes the agreement. 
 There was some confusion on Friday about exactly what Mr. Maliki said. Iraqi and American officials said his comments seemed to refer to a draft of the agreement that had already been superseded by a version delivered Thursday by the Americans. In several of his critical comments, Mr. Maliki referred to ''a first draft,'' suggesting that his comments might not apply to the latest one. 
 It was not clear that Mr. Maliki had reviewed the new draft, because he had been traveling. He is scheduled to meet Saturday with Iraqi political and military leaders to discuss it. 
 In addition to rejecting immunity for contractors, Mr. Maliki said that Iraq would resist ''Washington's demand to have a free hand in undertaking military operations without cooperation with the Iraqi government,'' according to a report of his comments on BBC Arabic TV and Al Arabiya, a television network. 
 He added: ''We cannot give permission to the American forces' independent right to arrest Iraqis or execute operations against terrorism. We cannot allow them to use the Iraqi skies and waters at all times.'' 
 The question of immunity for American contractors is a particularly sensitive one, following a widely publicized episode in which Blackwater guards gunned down 17 Iraqis in the streets of Baghdad in September, apparently without provocation.
 Although the Americans have apparently agreed to end immunity for contractors, American soldiers would still be exempt from prosecution in Iraq. 
 Within Iraq, political factions hold varying views. Sunnis and Kurds tend to be more open to an agreement, while some of the Shiite factions, which are closer to Iran, are more critical of it. 
 But all the parties emphasize the importance of Iraq's sovereignty rights. In a public meeting this week, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, warned Mr. Maliki not to ratify an agreement.
 During a sermon on Friday in the holy city of Karbala, an aide to Iraq's most senior Shiite religious leader, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, urged Iraqi negotiators to protect the national interest.
 ''Iraq's sovereignty and economy must be protected,'' the aide, Ahmed al-Safi, told worshipers.
 Meanwhile, hundreds of followers of Mr. Sadr -- long an opponent of American involvement in Iraq -- also rallied in Karbala to protest the agreement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Followers of the rebel Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr protested in Baghdad on Friday against a proposed security agreement. American politicians played down the severity of a disagreement.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALID MOHAMMED/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); IMMUNITY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (85%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); APPROVALS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); WRITERS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (51%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (90%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



353 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Disclosures Give Look at Candidates' Personal Finances

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
Senators John McCain and Barack Obama released their Senate financial disclosure statements on Friday, revealing that Mr. McCain and his wife had at least $225,000 in credit card debt and that Mr. Obama and his wife had put more than $200,000 into college funds for their daughters.
 The bulk of the McCains' obligations stemmed from a pair of American Express credit cards that are held in Cindy McCain's name. According to the disclosure reports, which present information on debts in a range rather than providing a precise figure, Mrs. McCain owed $100,000 to $250,000 on each card. 
 Another charge card, held by what was described as a ''dependent child,'' had also accumulated debts of $15,000 to $50,000. In addition, a credit card held jointly by the couple was carrying $10,000 to $15,000 in debt, the filing indicated, at a stiff 25.99 percent interest rate. 
 Under Congressional reporting rules, spouses of senators need not specify the exact amount of income they earn from employment, only whether that money exceeded $1,000. Neither Mrs. McCain, an heiress of the Hensley beer distribution company, nor Michelle Obama, a lawyer turned hospital administrator, provided additional information on their salaries in the disclosure form.
 Mrs. McCain's filing, however, indicated that she had substantial holdings in property and stocks -- including shares in Anheuser-Busch, which this week became the target of a takeover bid that is expected to send its value climbing. Her land holdings included parcels in Arizona and California, one of which was sold last year for a profit of more than $1 million.
 In other filings, the McCains have reported total household assets of $24.6 million to $39.5 million. In recently releasing a summary version of her 2006 tax return, Mrs. McCain reported income that year of more than $6 million, some $300,000 of which was derived from her salary as the chairwoman of Hensley, which was founded by her father.
 Information provided in the name of Mrs. Obama, whose 2006 tax return indicated income of $273,618 from the University of Chicago Hospitals, showed that she also earned at least $1,000 for work done for Treehouse Foods, where she was a salaried board member. She relinquished her position at that company, a major supplier to Wal-Mart, in May 2007, after her husband criticized Wal-Mart's labor practices.
 In addition to his Senate salary, $165,200 last year, Mr. Obama reported book royalties of more than $4 million in 2007. Those figures reflect the vigorous sales of his two books, ''Dreams From My Father'' and ''The Audacity of Hope,'' in the months leading up to and after his entry into the presidential race early last year. 
 Mr. Obama and his wife have invested those earnings in a variety of ways. In May, for example, they put at least $1 million into a money market fund, and in July invested $100,000 to $250,000 into college savings accounts for each of their two daughters, who are in elementary school. The Obamas have often noted on the campaign trail that they had only recently paid off their own college loans.
 Mr. McCain also reported income from book royalties and signings, though significantly smaller than Mr. Obama's: $176,488. That money is reported to have been donated to charity. In addition, as a retired Navy officer, Mr. McCain receives an annual pension of $58,358. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michelle Obama, top, reported a salary of $273,618 in 2006, while Cindy McCain reported income of more than $6 million.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY D. NICHOLLS/POST-TRIBUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); WOMEN (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ROYALTIES (72%); TAKEOVERS (71%); HOSPITALS (66%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (55%); TREEHOUSE FOODS INC (52%); WAL-MART STORES INC (51%)

TICKER: THS (NYSE) (52%); WMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (55%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (55%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311423 DRIED & DEHYDRATED FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (52%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%)

PERSON: CINDY MCCAIN (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (91%); MICHELLE OBAMA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



354 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Europe Worries About a 1970s-Style Oil Shock

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
In Europe, where the tight credit market has caused less havoc than in the United States, fears are focusing on another economic bogeyman: a 1970s-style oil shock.
 Gordon Brown, the prime minister of Britain, and Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the European Central Bank, have both warned about the dangers of a new oil shock to Europe.
 Soaring fuel costs have incited strikes by fishermen and truck drivers from Spain to Scotland. Blockades have paralyzed highways outside Madrid and Barcelona. And with deliveries of auto parts disrupted across the Continent, Volkswagen shut down a car plant in Portugal on Friday. 
 Fears that the spike in oil prices might start an inflationary spiral were reinforced on Friday when the European Union released figures showing that hourly labor costs jumped sharply in the first quarter, and are growing at their fastest pace since early 2003.
 A similar ripple effect occurred after the first oil shock in 1973, and it left Europe with a legacy of inflation and stagnation that took a decade, and a painful recession in the early-1980s, to banish.
 ''The historical memory of the first oil shock is much stronger for Europeans than for Americans,'' Daniel Yergin, the chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, said. ''For Americans, the memory is of gas lines. For Europeans, it was the end of their postwar economic miracle.''
 He and other experts caution against overstating the comparison between 2008 and 1973. Europe, they say, is better equipped to absorb these kinds of shocks than it was 35 years ago -- with a sturdy, shared currency, an independent central bank, and more flexible, open economies.
 Still, with growth slowing at the same time that wages and prices rise, there are unsettling similarities.
 ''There is unrest among workers, who today, as in the 1970s, feel they have been shortchanged,'' said Holger Schmieding, chief European economist at Bank of America in London. ''They have to spend more money on fuel, so they have less to spend on other things, and they want to be compensated.''
 The sharp rise in labor costs, economists said, all but guarantees that the European Central Bank will lift interest rates next month, as it signaled it might last week. A rate increase, they said, would be a stern warning to unions not to use inflation to extract hefty raises from employers.
 During a news conference in Frankfurt, Mr. Trichet offered a brief history lesson to underscore that the bank would not repeat the mistakes of its forebears by reacting too slowly to inflation.
 ''In Europe,'' he said, ''you can date from the first oil shock the start of much lower growth and mass unemployment. A large number of economists are also saying that, and I trust that governments that have the memory of these shocks are very lucid as regards the dangers.''
 Prime Minister Brown has called for a coordinated global response to rising oil prices, and wants it to be a ''top priority'' at a meeting of leaders of the Group of 8 industrial nations in Japan next month. The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, proposed cutting taxes on gasoline.
 But political leaders have relatively few options to curb the price of oil, which is why most of the focus in Europe has been on the central banks -- and in particular on the European Central Bank. 
 After surprising markets last week by signaling that it might raise rates in July, the bank spent this week reassuring investors -- through comments by Mr. Trichet and other members of its governing council -- that it did not plan to embark on a new round of rate increases.
 ''They rocked the boat at a very fragile moment,'' said Thomas Mayer, the chief European economist at Deutsche Bank. ''It was like you were in the kitchen with the gas cap leaking, and somebody lit a match.''
 Beyond the issue of how the bank communicates, Mr. Mayer said he worried that raising rates would aggravate the slowdown in Europe. He said he also doubted that monetary policy could dampen wage increases, particularly in countries like Spain, that index wages to inflation.
 Mr. Mayer is among those skeptical of analogies to the first oil shock. Deutsche Bank drew up a list of factors that were present in Europe in the 1970s -- lax fiscal policies, powerful unions, politically weak central banks, protectionist trade policies and so on -- and found that in almost every area, Europe is more open and flexible today than in the 1970s.
 That makes stagflation -- the combination of inflation and stagnation that gripped Europe after the first shock -- less likely this time, here or in other advanced economies, Mr. Mayer said.
 With less muscular unions, wage inflation is not yet a problem across Europe. While labor costs in Spain rose 5.7 percent in the first quarter of 2008, they slowed in France and Germany. Recent wage agreements for public-sector workers in Germany may yet drive up its numbers.
 The European Central Bank's response to oil prices, Mr. Mayer said, reminded him less of the 1970s than of the German hyperinflation of the 1920s, which helped create the inflation-fighting Bundesbank, the German central bank that heavily influenced the European bank.
 ''The E.C.B. has had a very Bundesbank-like reaction,'' he said, adding that in the 1970s, the Bundesbank ''got it right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Truck drivers blocked a highway in Madrid this week in a protest against rising fuel costs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN MEDINA/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EURO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); RECESSION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TRUCK DRIVERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); ENERGY RESEARCH (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); INTEREST RATES (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (85%); IHS INC (67%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (67%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (67%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (72%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (72%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (57%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



355 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Campaigns Unable to Agree on Series of Meetings

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FALCONE and JULIE BOSMAN; Julie Bosman reported from Columbus, Ohio, and Michael Falcone from Washington.

 BODY:
In almost every campaign appearance this week, Senator John McCain has been leaning on Senator Barack Obama to accept his offer to engage in a series of 10 one-on-one town-hall-style meetings, a format that worked well for Mr. McCain in the primaries.
 But after a round of proposals and counterproposals, the campaigns failed to reach an agreement on Friday on how often to meet and when any head-to-head matchups should occur. 
 David Plouffe, the campaign manager for Mr. Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee, criticized Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, for declining the counteroffer of five joint appearances. 
 Mr. Plouffe said the five joint appearances ''would have been the most of any presidential campaign in the modern era.''
 The proposal by Mr. Obama's campaign would have pitted the candidates against each other at three traditional debates in the fall, as well as at a town-hall-style meeting on the economy in July and a debate devoted to foreign policy in August.
 ''It's disappointing that Senator McCain and his campaign decided to decline this proposal,'' Mr. Plouffe said in a statement. ''Apparently they would rather contrive a political issue than foster a genuine discussion about the future of our country.''
 A spokesman for Mr. McCain, Brian Rogers, said his campaign did not consider the counterproposal a ''good faith'' attempt at compromise. 
 Mr. Rogers took particular umbrage with the suggestion that the economic-focused forum be on the Fourth of July, a day, he said, few Americans watch television.
 Mr. McCain proceeded without Mr. Obama at a town-hall-style meeting on Thursday night in New York before a friendly audience mostly made up of supporters and broadcast live on the Fox News Channel.
 ''This would have been a little more interesting tonight if Senator Obama had accepted my request,'' Mr. McCain told the audience at the Federal Hall National Memorial.
 Mr. McCain has promised to keep time open in his schedule every week from now until the Democratic convention in case Mr. Obama changes his mind on the joint appearances.
 The campaign appears ready to push on with the forums, even in Mr. Obama's absence. The next one is scheduled for Thursday in Minnesota. 
 On Friday, Mr. McCain's campaign manager, Rick Davis, sent a letter to Mr. Plouffe informing him that Mr. McCain had accepted an invitation to joint town-hall-style meetings in July at the Ronald Reagan and Lyndon B. Johnson Presidential Libraries. 
 In the letter, Mr. Davis signaled that the negotiations between the campaigns were ''turning into a debate about process.''
 ''That is exactly what we have always hoped to avoid, and why we proposed a town hall format that would render many of these process issues moot,'' Mr. Davis wrote.
 The candidates first addressed the idea of a series of forums in May. In a letter last week, Mr. McCain officially extended an invitation to Mr. Obama to participate in the meetings ''in the spirit of the politics of change, and to do our country good.''
 At the time, Mr. Plouffe called the proposal appealing, but said his campaign preferred a format that is ''less structured and lengthier than the McCain campaign suggests, one that more closely resembles the historic debates between Abraham Lincoln and Stephen Douglas.''
 As the debate over debates remained unresolved, the campaigns sparred over the economy. Mr. Obama was sharply critical of Mr. McCain's stance on Social Security.
 ''My opponent in this general election, John McCain, his idea of Social Security amounts to four more years of what was attempted and failed under George W. Bush,'' Mr. Obama said, referring to Mr. McCain's previous support of private accounts within Social Security. ''Yesterday, he tried to deny that he ever took that position, which leads us to wonder if he had a change of heart or a change of politics.''
 Speaking alongside his wife, Michelle, and Gov. Ted Strickland of Ohio, a Democrat, to a few dozen people at a retirement center in Columbus, Mr. Obama laid out his plan for Social Security and retirement. He called for adjusting the cap on the payroll tax and eliminating income tax for the elderly who make less than $50,000 a year.
 Mr. Obama said the ''tax cuts for the rich'' that Mr. McCain has proposed would provide ''essentially no benefits to the vast majority of senior citizens.''
 Some economic analysts have criticized Mr. Obama's plans, suggesting that the tax system already adequately protects low-income older Americans.
 The McCain campaign issued a statement saying Mr. Obama's tax proposals would raise taxes for some elderly people. 
 ''Barack Obama likes to think that his tax increases will only hit a few Americans, but in truth, his economic plan will be a disaster for everyone, especially seniors,'' said Tucker Bounds, a spokesman for Mr. McCain. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain, left, in an appearance at the Federal Hall National Memorial in New York on Thursday, and Senator Barack Obama, who turned down an invitation to the forum, speaking on Friday at a retirement center in Columbus, Ohio.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIICHIRO SATO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%); LIBRARIES (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008



356 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Person-to-Person Loans

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
HOMEOWNERS who are having trouble borrowing against their house are starting to look to an interesting new source for cash: strangers. 
 Online networks have emerged in recent years that allow people to find loans or make them, the same way they might exchange music or bid on collectibles on eBay. The sites that are leading the trend -- Prosper.com and Zopa.com -- say they have noticed a spike in activity since traditional lenders began restricting second mortgages and home equity lines of credit. 
 ''We've seen a major shift in creditworthy people getting funded on our site,'' said Chris Larsen, the chief executive at Prosper. ''A lot of that shift is from people who'd traditionally gotten home equity loans.'' 
 Prosper's users register with the site, permit the company to pull their credit data, and then post a loan request along with an upper limit for the amount of interest they are willing to pay. Loans, which are typically financed by several people seeking to spread their risk, amortize over three years at a fixed rate, with no prepayment penalty.
 Lenders review requests individually or let Prosper offer loans to borrowers who meet the lenders' specified criteria, like credit scores or group affiliation. 
 Borrowers pay Prosper a fee of 1 to 3 percent of the loan, then receive a check within four days. They make monthly payments to Prosper, based in San Francisco. 
 The average interest rate in May for a $20,000 loan given to borrowers with excellent credit was about 14 percent, and 9.5 percent for an $8,000 loan. These rates are generally higher than what borrowers would pay with a true home equity loan, but lower than credit card interest rates. 
 Roughly 50 percent of the prospective borrowers with excellent credit get financing, with the percentage declining for borrowers with credit scores below 720. 
 Mr. Larsen, who is the founder and former chief executive of E-Loan, an online lender, said banks have begun asking how to pass along to Prosper customers who no longer qualify for traditional second mortgages. He added that demand for loans in New York City has been strong, partly because some lenders are reluctant to make home equity loans on co-ops, which often have more complicated approval processes.
 Zopa, which, like Prosper, helps to arrange loans of up to $25,000, has had a similar surge in lending activity, according to Doug Dolton, the chief executive. 
 The site charges no fees and follows a different approach. Zopa helps lenders evaluate a borrower's finances with a credit check, but it takes the additional step of requiring proof of income, and it offers loan approvals immediately on its Web site. 
 Zopa's lending mechanisms differ in other ways. Its lenders are people who take out certificates of deposit, and may agree to forgo part of the interest to help finance loan requests from friends or others whose appeals are particularly touching. 
 For instance, a Zopa user who takes out a $10,000 certificate of deposit can earn 3.75 percent interest from the site, which relies on credit unions to finance the loans. If the same user is so sympathetic to a specific borrower that he is willing to accept 3 percent, which is roughly the national average for a one-year C.D., he can help the borrower cut a loan's rate by the amount of interest that he has sacrificed. 
 Depending on their financial qualifications, borrowers' starting interest rates run from 8.49 percent to 16.99 percent, and depending on their help from others on the site, their payments drop from there. ''We actually have one borrower who has no monthly payment,'' Mr. Dolton said. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES 1-year Treasury rate: Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 2 or 3 percentage points above this index.(Source: HSH Associates)Chart details line graph for adjustable rates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (78%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); SECOND MORTGAGES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); WEB SITES (72%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



357 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1754 words

HEADLINE: They (The New) Brooklyn

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
WHILE condominium developers across the country are trying to unload thousands of apartments that they can't sell, some builders in Brooklyn have found the real estate equivalent of a golden parachute. Having turned their new units into high-priced rentals, they have found a surprising number of eager takers. 
 These renters are a breed of Brooklynite different from many of their predecessors, and they share the same desires. They're not pining for yards or fantasizing about a brownstone; they want apartments that resemble Manhattan luxury towers. They like 24-hour doormen, skyline views suitable for the likes of Gordon Gekko and the appliance equivalent of Prada or Hermes in their kitchens and bathrooms -- all for much less than they would have to pay in Manhattan.
 Kevin Reid, who is renting a two-bedroom in the Mynt at 756 Myrtle Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant, is a perfect example. His 72-unit building was originally planned as condominiums, but the developer converted it into rentals and kept the appliances and fixtures meant for buyers. 
 Mr. Reid pays $2,550 a month for perks like views of the Empire State Building and a deep Kohler bathtub that reminds him of tubs in a luxury hotel room. The brokerage firm Aptsandlofts.com has rented all but five units. A similar unit in Manhattan would rent for an average of $6,853, according to Citi Habitats. 
 Mr. Reid, 30, an event planner, decorated his living/dining area with a white wraparound couch and sleek kitchen stools. He and his friends, he said, had no interest in living in brownstones or older Brooklyn properties. When he eventually buys in Brooklyn, he wants a condo like his current rental.
 ''My peers who have their M.B.A.'s and their new master's degrees and new jobs, they're looking for new condos; they're not into the traditional houses or brownstones,'' he said. ''This is the lifestyle we like. You cannot put a fitness center in a brownstone. You don't have a doorman in a brownstone.''
 The taste preferences of these new renters worry some longtime Brooklyn residents who wonder how the borough will change if these renters, who are not seeking Brooklyn's characteristic tight-knit neighborhood feel, decide to stay and buy.
 Ronald Schweiger, the Brooklyn borough historian, fears that builders will continue to support the design of tall towers, contradicting the vision that early-20th-century architects had for Brooklyn. He worries that the feel of neighborhoods like Victorian Flatbush could be threatened and cites some homes that have already been torn down. ''It changes the whole character of the turn-of-the-century vision of the developers and builders who wanted a suburban feel for these communities,'' he said.
 In 2005, Brooklyn developers started building thousands of apartments to satisfy demand from buyers who had easy access to mortgages. Back then, developers had little financial incentive to build rentals, which provide profits at a snail's pace compared with condos.
 By 2010, when all the currently scheduled condo projects are completed, Brooklyn developers will have built nearly 10 times more condo units than rentals, according to Reis Inc., a real estate research company based in New York. 
 The company's figures show that in new buildings with more than 40 apartments, Brooklyn developers are building 9,882 condo units, compared with 1,149 rental units. If all new construction is included, however, the numbers could be much higher, because many new buildings have fewer than 40 units. StreetEasy.com, a real estate Web site, says more than 30,000 condos in Brooklyn have been approved by the state attorney general's office since 2002.
 But as thousands of apartments have been completed, consumers' preferences have shifted toward renting because they consider it easier and less risky. Lenders typically require buyers to have credit scores over 700 to qualify for mortgages, while landlords need renters to have credit scores above only 620 to qualify for apartments, according to David Maundrell, the president of Aptsandlofts.com, which is based in Williamsburg.
 Selling has become more difficult. Thomas McAteer, a Prudential Douglas Elliman broker in the Park Slope office, spent eight months trying to sell condos at 710 Sixth Avenue in Greenwood Heights, which has 15 units. Even though four buyers went into contract, only one actually went through with the deal, he said. The others could not get financing or backed out over concerns that real estate values would decline. He said that two renters have moved into the building, where the monthly rents range from $2,400 to $4,800. These renters could afford to buy because they have as much as $500,000 in assets, Mr. McAteer said, but they're waiting.
 ''They would rather take the money and put it into a rental rather than a mortgage,'' he said.
 These factors are all driving up the prices of Brooklyn rentals and slowing down sales, according to StreetEasy.com. From May 2007 to May 2008, Brooklyn rents rose 6 percent, while sales prices fell 4 percent. And while Brooklyn's 3.1 percent rental vacancy rate means the market is not as tight as Manhattan's, at 2.3 percent, Brooklyn is doing better than the rest of the country. The national average vacancy rate is 5.9 percent, according to Reis.
 These conditions are persuading developers to convert even more condos to rentals -- especially in the outer edges of neighborhoods like Bushwick, Williamsburg, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill. 
 Brooklyn brokers predict that more conversions will occur because developers are consulting with them about the process. Some developers convert even before they try to sell apartments, which was the case at Mr. Reid's building at 756 Myrtle Avenue. 
 Other projects have been converted after brokers had trouble selling units. According to StreetEasy, developers cut unit prices, on average, by $9,966 at 99 Gold Street, in Dumbo; $13,979 at 192 Spencer Street, in Bedford-Stuyvesant ; and $86,543 at 55 Berry Street, in Williamsburg. Some developers are turning unsold units into rentals. For example, the developer David Walentas converted the last 40 units at his 300-unit building at 110 Livingston Street, in downtown Brooklyn, into rentals and rented them all within three months. 
 Asher Abeshera, the vice president for sales and marketing of Two Trees Management, which owns and manages 110 Livingston Street, said he had not received any complaints from owners in the building about having renters there.
 Some developers believe that rentals have so much potential for profit that they're refocusing all of their long-term strategies toward rentals. About six months ago, the North Development Group decided to turn a 47-unit condominium at 185 South Fourth Street, in Williamsburg into rentals. The company is building three other rental buildings in Brooklyn, and it has plans for several more rental projects. 
 Martin Ehrenfeld, the project's director of sales and marketing, said the company changed plans because demand for condos had slowed and he found few luxury rental buildings being built nearby.
 Many new renters in Brooklyn say that they want to buy there once they feel more confident that real estate prices have stabilized. 
 Ken Linsk, 39, a lawyer, had looked at nearly 20 apartments to buy in Williamsburg, Fort Greene, Prospect Heights and Park Slope, but he was worried about declining real estate prices and extensive building taking place in Brooklyn. So he rented at 110 Livingston Street in downtown Brooklyn, which had high-quality fixtures and finishes. He is paying about $3,000 a month for his one-bedroom, while, according to Citi Habitats, similar apartments cost on average $3,905 a month in Manhattan. ''I feel no pressure to buy,'' Mr. Linsk said. ''Economically, it makes no sense to me.''
 When he does buy, he wants a Brooklyn apartment similar to his rental. He says he doesn't feel comfortable investing in neighborhoods that aren't far along in the gentrification process. He also prefers a condo over a co-op because he dislikes the board power over resales. ''I wouldn't buy anything that restricted my liquidity,'' he said.
 Other renters find that Brooklyn's new buildings meet the needs of New Yorkers who work all the time and need full services. Melissa Osipoff, 27, a corporate lawyer, had wanted to rent a one-bedroom in Manhattan for about $3,000 a month. She went directly to the managers of 10 buildings in Chelsea, the West Village and Gramercy Park and found that most didn't even have apartments available. She wouldn't rent in a building without a doorman because she works late and wanted security. Units in Manhattan buildings with elevators and without doormen, on average, rent from about $2,927, according to Citi Habitats.
 Ms. Osipoff eventually headed to downtown Brooklyn and rented a $2,800-a-month one-bedroom at 110 Livingston Street. Because it was built as a condo, she said, it has better amenities than the Manhattan rental buildings. She likes having a Viking range, Sub-Zero refrigerator, washer and dryer and space to have about 20 friends over for parties. Her friends have developed ''major bathroom envy'' because she has so much space and a Jacuzzi tub.
 Beyond the perks of her building, Ms. Osipoff is discovering that she doesn't leave Brooklyn very often anymore. She finds that her neighborhood is more lively at night than the financial district in Manhattan, where she works.
 There are high-quality restaurants on Smith Street, and plenty of her friends also live in Brooklyn. She is saving to buy in a doorman building there.
 For many people, Brooklyn is their first adult home in New York. ''It's become more of a place that people go to,'' instead of Manhattan, she said.
 That's not quite how Russell Brattain feels. Mr. Brattain, 29, who works on airport security systems, wishes he could afford to rent a Manhattan apartment similar to his three-bedroom rental at the Mynt. He and his co-worker Steven Gilman, 24, pay $3,350 a month for the apartment, which includes a terrace and a parking space. In Manhattan, the average three-bedroom apartment costs about $9,958 a month, not including parking, according to Citi Habitats. 
 But the men are settling into their neighborhood. They ride their bikes to Williamsburg for the night life and have started hanging out with neighbors.
 Although Mr. Brattain would like to move to Manhattan, he said, ''it's a huge sacrifice of space, noise, amenities and the price.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DESIGNER FIXTURES: Kevin Reid is renting a two-bedroom in the Mynt in Bedford-Stuyvesant. He decorated his living/dining area with a wraparound couch and sleek kitchen stools.
LUXURY KITCHEN: Melissa Osipoff likes having a Viking range and Sub-Zero refrigerator in her one-bedroom rental at 110 Livingston Street in downtown Brooklyn.(PHOTOGRAPHS ABOVE BY KATE GLICKSBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPHS ABOVE BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
LOWER RENTS: Russell Brattain, right, and his co-worker Steven Gilman pay $3,350 a month for a three-bedroom at the Mynt, left, a deep discount from the $9,958-a-month average cost for a similar unit in Manhattan. Ken Linsk, below, is paying about $3,000 a month for his one-bedroom at 110 Livingston Street.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATE GLICKSBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(PG. RE10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); HISTORY (62%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (54%); C (BMV) (54%); 8710 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



358 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Malthus Redux: Is Doomsday Upon Us, Again?

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
During the last American food-and-gas-price crisis, in the 1970s, one of my colleagues on the Berkeley student newspaper told me that he and his semi-communal housemates had taken a vote. They'd calculated they could afford meat or coffee. They chose coffee.
 The decision was slightly less effete than it sounds now -- the Starbucks clone wars were still some years off, so he was talking about choosing Yuban over ground chuck. But it nonetheless said something about us as spoiled Americans. Riots were relatively common in Berkeley in those days. But they were never about food. (That particular revolution was starting without us on Shattuck Avenue, where Chez Panisse had just opened.)
 However, elsewhere on the globe, people were on the edge of starvation. Grain prices were soaring, rice stocks plummeting. In Ethiopia and Cambodia, people were well over the edge, and food riots helped lead to the downfall of Emperor Haile Selassie and the victory of the Khmer Rouge. 
 Now it's happening again. While Americans grumble about gasoline prices, food riots have seared Bangladesh, Egypt and African countries. In Haiti, they cost the prime minister his job. Rice-bowl countries like China, India and Indonesia have restricted exports and rice is shipped under armed guard.
 And again, Thomas Malthus, a British economist and demographer at the turn of the 19th century, is being recalled to duty. His basic theory was that populations, which grow geometrically, will inevitably outpace food production, which grows arithmetically. Famine would result. The thought has underlain doomsday scenarios both real and imagined, from the Great Irish Famine of 1845 to the Population Bomb of 1968. 
 But over the last 200 years, with the Industrial Revolution, the Transportation Revolution, the Green Revolution and the Biotech Revolution, Malthus has been largely discredited. The wrenching dislocations of the last few months do not change that, most experts say. But they do show the kinds of problems that can emerge.
 The whole world has never come close to outpacing its ability to produce food. Right now, there is enough grain grown on earth to feed 10 billion vegetarians, said Joel E. Cohen, professor of populations at Rockefeller University and the author of ''How Many People Can the Earth Support?'' But much of it is being fed to cattle, the S.U.V.'s of the protein world, which are in turn guzzled by the world's wealthy.
 Theoretically, there is enough acreage already planted to keep the planet fed forever, because 10 billion humans is roughly where the United Nations predicts that the world population will plateau in 2060. But success depends on portion control; in the late 1980s, Brown University's World Hunger Program calculated that the world then could sustain 5.5 billion vegetarians, 3.7 billion South Americans or 2.8 billion North Americans, who ate more animal protein than South Americans. 
 Even if fertility rates rose again, many agronomists think the world could easily support 20 billion to 30 billion people.
 Anyone who has ever flown across the United States can see how that's possible: there's a lot of empty land down there. The world's entire population, with 1,000 square feet of living space each, could fit into Texas. Pile people atop each other like Manhattanites, and they get even more elbow room.
 Water? When it hits $150 a barrel, it will be worth building pipes from the melting polar icecaps, or desalinating the sea as the Saudis do.
 The same potential is even more obvious flying around the globe. The slums of Mumbai are vast; but so are the empty arable spaces of Rajasthan. Africa, a huge continent with a mere 770 million people on it, looks practically empty from above. South of the Sahara, the land is rich; south of the Zambezi, the climate is temperate. But it is farmed mostly by people using hoes.
 As Harriet Friedmann, an expert on food systems at the University of Toronto, pointed out, Malthus was writing in a Britain that echoed the dichotomy between today's rich countries and the third world: an elite of huge landowners practicing ''scientific farming'' of wool and wheat who made fat profits; many subsistence farmers barely scratching out livings; migration by those farmers to London slums, followed by emigration. The main difference is that emigration then was to colonies where farmland was waiting, while now it is to richer countries where jobs are.
 Malthus's world filled up, and its farmers, defying his predictions, became infinitely more productive. Admittedly, emptying acreage so it can be planted with genetically modified winter wheat and harvested by John Deere combines can be a brutal process, but it is solidly within the Western canon. My Scottish ancestors, for example, became urbanites thanks to the desire of English scientific farmers (for which read ''landlords and bribers of clan chiefs'') to graze more sheep in the highlands. Four generations later, I got to mull the coffee-meat dilemma while actually living on newsroom pizza.
 So it ultimately worked out for one spoiled Scottish-American. But what about the 800 million people who are chronically hungry, even in riot-free years?
 Dr. Friedmann argues that there is a Malthusian unsustainability to the way big agriculture is practiced, that it degrades genetic diversity and the environment so much that it will eventually reach a tipping point and hunger will spread.
 Others vigorously disagree. In their view, the world is almost endlessly bountiful. If food became as pricey as oil, we would plow Africa, fish-farm the oceans and build hydroponic skyscraper vegetable gardens. But they see the underlying problem in terms more Marxian than Malthusian: the rich grab too much of everything, including biomass.
 For the moment, simply ending subsidies to American and European farmers would let poor farmers compete, which besides feeding their families would push down American food prices and American taxes.
 Tyler Cowen, a George Mason University economist, notes that global agriculture markets are notoriously unfree and foolishly managed. Rich countries subsidize farmers, but poor governments fix local grain prices or ban exports just when world prices rise -- for example, less than 7 percent of the world's rice crosses borders. That discourages the millions of third world farmers who grow enough for themselves and a bit extra for sale from planting that bit extra.
 Americans are attracted to Malthusian doom-saying, Dr. Cowen argues, ''because it's a pre-emptive way to hedge your fear. Prepare yourself for the worst, and you feel safer than when you're optimistic.''
 Dr. Cohen, of Rockefeller University, sees it in more sinister terms: Americans like Malthus because he takes the blame off us. Malthus says the problem is too many poor people.
 Or, to put it in the terms in which the current crisis is usually explained: too many hard-working Chinese and Indians who think they should be able to eat pizza, meat and coffee and aspire to a reservation at Chez Panisse. They get blamed for raising global prices so much that poor Africans and Asians can't afford porridge and rice. The truth is, the upward pressure was there before they added to it.
 America has always been charitable, so the answer has never been, ''Let them eat bean sprouts.'' But it has been, ''Let them eat subsidized American corn shipped over in American ships.'' That may need to change. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 22, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the population theory of Thomas Malthus, a British economist and demographer at the turn of the 19th century, misstated the population of Africa. The estimated population last year was about 944 million people, not 770 million. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas Malthus
 LAST RESORT Haitians searching for food or anything else at a dump. Rising food prices led to riots in April. Most Haitians earn less than $2 a day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GASOLINE PRICES (90%); MEAT FREE DIETS (89%); FAMINE (89%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); RICE MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); STARVATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); RIOTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WRITERS (73%); LIVESTOCK FEED (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (70%); MAMMALS (69%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); POPULATION SIZE (54%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%); EXPORT CONTROLS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) HAITI (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CAMBODIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



359 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: The Perils of Staying Too Close to Home

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THERE'S no place like home, but staying too close to home can have unintended consequences for investors.
 Americans tend to put a disproportionate share of their money into shares of companies based in their own states, new research has shown, and that bias that can be exploited by sophisticated traders. 
 These insights come from ''Long Georgia, Short Colorado? The Geography of Return Predictability,'' a study by George M. Korniotis, an economist on the staff of the board of governors of the Federal Reserve, and Alok Kumar, an assistant professor of finance at the University of Texas, Austin. 
 The tendency of investors to favor their home countries has been well documented. The new study goes beyond such ''home bias,'' using the term ''local bias'' to refer to investors' tendency to favor companies from their home states. The researchers were able to measure this bias by studying the stock holdings from 1991 to 1996 of more than 75,000 individual investors at a major national discount brokerage firm. (The data were provided in a way that ensured the investors' anonymity.) Strong evidence of local bias was found in each of the 50 states as well as in the District of Columbia.
 Consider investors in New York. They invested in companies whose headquarters were 750 miles from home, on average. Had investors picked stocks randomly, without regard to where the companies were based, that average distance would have been 1,055 miles. The difference was explained by a disproportionately large dollop of New York stocks in the investors' portfolios. 
 Of course, there are many reasons for local bias. But one is undoubtedly very basic: Faced with the daunting task of choosing among thousands of publicly traded companies, investors turn to companies with which they are familiar. Often, the investors who buy shares of small companies -- particularly those that aren't tracked by Wall Street analysts -- are those who live nearby. Where there is bias, there is trading opportunity. The study found that it is possible to exploit investors' parochialism to beat the stock market. In fact, Professor Kumar, said in an interview that he had already been approached by several hedge fund managers to assist them in doing exactly that. He did not disclose the names of the managers or of their funds.
 The key to exploiting local bias, according to the researchers, is to pay attention to local economic conditions, which generally follow a fairly predictable cycle. For example, after a state's economy starts performing worse than the national average, the disparity is likely to persist. Because a disproportionate share of investors in that state's companies are state residents, its worsening economic climate will often translate into a decline in these investors' wealth. As a result, they tend to sell their shares and drive down the price, and the state's stocks are likely to underperform the overall market for several successive quarters.
 The reverse tends to occur, according to the professors, when a state's economy is improving at a faster rate than the national average.
 TO illustrate the market-beating potential of this insight, the researchers built a hypothetical market-neutral portfolio that, at the end of each quarter from 1995 through 2004, bought all the stocks of the four states whose companies were predicted to perform the best and sold short an equal dollar amount of the stocks of the four states whose companies were predicted to lag the furthest behind. This portfolio produced an average annualized return of 8 percent, according to the researchers, without having to bet on the direction of the overall market. That's a winning combination.
 Professor Kumar acknowledged that the complex calculations required for this strategy were beyond the reach of individual investors; but he said professional money managers at hedge funds or other investment firms might have the computer power to do so.
 For everyone else, the primary investment implication of the study may be that it's important to guard against local bias. Otherwise, you may be missing opportunities in the broad market, all while rendering your portfolio vulnerable to the economic conditions of your own little corner of the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); GEOGRAPHY (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); INTERVIEWS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



360 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Starting to Think Outside the Jar

BYLINE: By G. PASCAL ZACHARY. 
G. Pascal Zachary teaches journalism at Stanford and writes about technology and economic development. E-mail: gzach@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to innovations in everyday essentials, the glass is either half-empty or half-full.
 With higher energy prices seemingly here to stay, clever people are devising ways to reduce the resources and energy consumed in making a wide range of everyday essentials.
 ''To stretch our scarce resources, we absolutely do need to reinvent many of the production processes we are using today,'' says Gwen Ruta, vice president for corporate partnerships at the Environmental Defense Fund. 
 But the challenges are enormous. Consider industrial glass, used to make windows in houses and cars, containers for liquids, screens for computers and cellphones, and hybrid products like fiberglass or fiber optics.
 Glassmaking is a based on old, stable technologies that require lots of materials and energy. The basic furnace, which melts sand into glass at extremely high temperatures, hasn't undergone a fundamental change since the 1850s. Furnace designers have long contented themselves with small improvements, such as using pure oxygen to improve energy efficiency. 
 Today, glassmaking faces a technological upheaval that offers a reminder that ''it is a mistake to assume that older technologies are less dynamic than new ones,'' says David Edgerton, a historian at Imperial College in London and the author of ''The Shock of the Old,'' a history of the evolution of pre-electronic technologies in the 20th century.
 Across the United States and around the world, the ''greening'' of glass is only getting started. ''We're making glass essentially the same way as the ancient Romans,'' says Ian Kemsley, an inventor in Portland, Ore. ''There's tremendous waste, and a huge amount of money to be made by innovating.'' 
 Mr. Kemsley has created a radical new design for melting sand into glass, based on the same technology that creates heat in microwave ovens. Because his approach relies on electricity, which is more expensive than the natural gas now used by glassmakers, skeptics say he will not be able to adapt his design to handle the enormous volumes of glass churned out by industrial companies.
 Those high volumes exert a conservative force on an industry that, while technologically avant-garde 100 years ago, is today heavily concentrated in several Rust Belt companies in Ohio, Pennsylvania and upstate New York.
 ''These companies have not been entrepreneurial; they haven't been thinking outside of the box,'' says Michael Greenman, executive director of the Glass Manufacturing Industry Council, a trade group based in Westerville, Ohio, that represents the country's major players.
 Mr. Greenman sees a new willingness to innovate among glassmakers who, until recently, usually shunned technological advances because savings in materials and energy didn't justify the costs of introducing new designs and processes. 
 ''Many innovations were, frankly, thwarted by cost,'' says C. Philip Ross, a consultant in Laguna Niguel, Calif., who has studied technological options for the industry. ''There's a lot of upside in revisiting old, discarded ideas.''
 Glassmakers are searching for both small and large advances on three fronts: designing more efficient furnaces; creating much stronger glass; and using heat better.
 While small improvements in furnaces can help, a radical advance is needed. ''Believe me, people have been trying for a long time, but it is so challenging,'' says David Rue, a furnace designer at the Gas Technology Institute in Chicago. ''A better one has to do everything we do now and then some new things.''
 Mr. Rue has designed an experimental furnace that melts sand into glass in 3 hours instead of the typical 24. The trick is ''to turn the furnace upside down,'' he explains, to improve heat transfer and reach critical temperatures more rapidly. (Faster melting saves much energy.) While the new furnace works, it yields smaller batches of glass and leaves too many bubbles, an outcome that Mr. Rue is trying to correct. 
 Making glass stronger is perhaps the most difficult problem, and potentially the most astonishing advance. Everyday glass is less then 1 percent of its theoretical strength. Stronger glass would be lighter, require less material and be cheaper to transport -- and would mean fewer broken wine glasses at dinner parties. Lighter glass could save more energy than any other single innovation. But there is a catch: Because the basic science of glass has been relatively neglected for decades, ''we are just beginning to get a hold on the strength issue,'' Mr. Greenman says. 
 Probably the quickest gains will come from better ''heat recovery'' in manufacturing. Most glass is made in huge furnaces that reach temperatures of more than 2,000 degrees, then run continuously for as long as 10 years. Heat is lost at many points and, until recently, glassmakers didn't have much incentive to plug the leaks even though they knew how. Now they do.
 ''Heat recovery is so critical,'' says Patrick Jackson, energy manager at Corning Inc., a leading glassmaker. ''It is a game changer.''
 He estimates that energy use could improve as much as 40 percent through reduced loss of heat. Last December, when Corning wanted to train a dozen people from various business groups in relevant techniques, the company sent them to Germany, which Mr. Jackson calls ''the Mecca of heat recovery.''
 The potential revolution in glass-making suggests a new model for innovation: Creators go back to the future, spending almost as much time retrieving once-discarded inventions as they do creating new ones. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Making glass has long been energy-intensive, but soaring energy prices provide a strong incentive for that to change.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CORNING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLASS MFG (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); FIBERGLASS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); HISTORY (66%); CLASSICS (66%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (56%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (69%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) OHIO, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



361 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Oyster Bay Ordered to Permit Mall's Construction

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
IN what could be a decisive moment in a seven-year legal battle over plans to build a luxury mall in Syosset, a Suffolk County judge has ordered the Town of Oyster Bay to immediately issue a permit that would allow construction to begin on a 39-acre former industrial site next to the Long Island Expressway.
 In a 29-page decision, Acting State Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey A. Spinner said the town had intentionally drawn out the court struggle with specious arguments and had abused an environmental review process to deny Taubman Centers Inc. of Michigan the right to proceed with the $500 million project. 
 The town, Justice Spinner said in the ruling issued last week, had flouted court directives and engaged in ''continuing obstinacy and persistent obfuscatory obstructionism'' to thwart both Taubman and the courts.
 ''The point has been reached where this court must act to resolve this matter,'' he said in ordering the town to issue the special permit without delay for the 750,000-square-foot mall. He also ordered the Town Board to immediately adopt findings reached by a town agency that carried out an environmental review of the Taubman project in 2000. 
 Those findings cleared the way for the project but were rejected by the Town Board after residents and civic groups expressed concerns about traffic, overdevelopment and road safety. Justice Spinner said the town had failed to show any reason why a new, or supplemental, environmental study was needed. 
 Oyster Bay's supervisor, John Venditto, said the town would appeal the ruling to the Appellate Division in Brooklyn. ''We are still in a situation here where we have a court of law attempting to substitute its judgment for that of the duly-elected Oyster Bay Town Board,'' Mr. Venditto said, ''and that can't stand.''
 Howard D. Avrutine, a lawyer for three civic associations involved in the case, said the associations would join in the appeal. ''This decision is flawed, and we are confident it will be overturned,'' he said.
 The civic associations are part of the Cerro Wire Coalition, a group of 32 civic and business groups opposed to the mall and partially financed by Simon Property Group of Indianapolis, a Taubman competitor and owner of the Roosevelt Field mall in Garden City. (Cerro Wire and Cable Company once operated a factory on the site proposed for the mall.)
 Todd Fabricant of Jericho, the coalition chairman, said he was offended that Justice Spinner alluded in his ruling to Taubman lawyers' description of the coalition as a front for the Simon group and that he suggested the members lived too far from the proposed mall to be affected. 
 ''Judge Spinner needs to get in his car and come from Suffolk County and realize that all these groups are extremely impacted by the development of this property,'' Mr. Fabricant said. Taubman, which brought the court action to compel the town to issue the permit, hailed the ruling as a breakthrough for plans it first announced more than 13 years ago. ''The court has now definitively ruled that there is no legal basis for the Town to further delay the mall,'' said Stephen J. Kieras, Taubman senior vice president of development, in a statement. 
 The mall, originally planned for nearly 1 million square feet of retail space, would cater to the same high-end market targeted by the 220,000-square-foot Americana Manhasset and, to a lesser degree, by 2.2-million-square-foot Roosevelt Field. Taubman says Neiman Marcus, Nordstrom and Barneys New York would be among the anchor stores. 
 A spokesman for the Taubman project, Gary Lewi, said it would go forward despite the current economic downturn. Taubman wants to open the mall in fall 2010 and will ask the appellate court for an expedited ruling.
 The town and the civic groups vowed that would never happen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (90%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); APPEALS (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); JUDGES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); BUILDING PERMITS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); APPEALS COURTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%)

COMPANY: CERRO WIRE & CABLE CO INC (81%); TAUBMAN CENTERS INC (71%); SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: TCO (NYSE) (71%); SPG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3357 DRAWING & INSULATING OF NONFERROUS WIRE (81%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



362 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; MARINE LIFE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Restrictions Reduce Horseshoe Crab Fishing

BYLINE: By TIM WACKER

DATELINE: WESTHAMPTON DUNES 

 BODY:
 CONSERVATION and commerce recently collided on a moonlit beach off Dune Road here when scientists counting horseshoe crabs mating in the sandy shallows bumped into a fisherman rapidly throwing the same crabs into his boat.
 Terse greetings were exchanged as opposing forces in a growing dispute headed in the directions they came from.
 Horseshoe crab fishermen are seething this spring after the state cut their daily catch quota to 200 crabs from 500, the first such cut in several years. Meanwhile, the scientists recommending those restrictions are pondering new measures as they try to manage the crabs more effectively. 
 Horseshoe crabs look like well-armored hubcaps with knitting needles for tails. They are scary looking but harmless, inedible yet prized bait for two equally unusual but edible marine creatures: snails and eels.
 Past reductions on horseshoe crab harvests in Maryland and Delaware and a harvest ban in New Jersey sparked a gold rush in New York's less restricted waters last year. As prices jumped from 25 cents a crab to more than $1, the 2007 harvest in New York nearly doubled its 150,000-crab annual quota, prompting the clampdown on the daily catch this year.
 ''Horseshoe crabs do play an important role here commercially,'' said Matthew Sclafani, a Cornell University Cooperative Extension researcher, who was leading the team of scientists that night on the shoreline. ''Horseshoe crabs are also a very important species for shorebirds and fish that eat the crab's eggs. We're trying to find a balance between the two.''
 Fishermen say that balance is leaning too far in favor of the birds and fish. Past harvest restrictions throughout the Northeast were prompted in large part over concern for red knots, small shorebirds that glean horseshoe crab eggs, mostly from Delaware Bay beaches, to help fuel a 9,300-mile migration from South America to their Arctic Circle nesting grounds.
 As Delaware Bay horseshoe crabs' numbers have dropped in recent years, so has the population of red knots, prompting an outcry from environmental groups and causing some of the state restrictions. These days shorebirds face numerous environmental challenges, said Peter Wenczel, a Southold bayman who is a member of the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission's horseshoe crab advisory board. One study found red knots died in South America from eating mussels tainted from red tide algae toxins, he said.
 ''It's no doubt the world population of wading birds is down, but it's not just because of horseshoe crab eggs,'' he said. 
 Fishermen harvesting bait for exotic seafood may not marshal public sentiment quite like protectors of shorebirds and prehistoric-looking crabs. But baymen are also becoming endangered, said Edward J. Warner Jr., a Southampton Town trustee and a seventh-generation bayman who fishes for horseshoe crabs and conch in Shinnecock Bay. New York State issued 360 crab harvest permits in 2007.
 ''These days all the fisheries have quotas on them; I just want to keep the local fishermen going,'' he said. ''Last year you could get $500 in crabs, so it was economically viable to pick them up. They should just let the fishermen catch the crabs and then, when they reach the annual limit, shut the fishery down.''
 But that practice led to the near 90 percent overharvest last year, said Kim McKown, a crustaceans expert with the New York Department of Environmental Conservation. Horseshoe crab research here lags far behind other states, she said, and until New York scientists know more about the health of New York populations they will be cautious. 
 Along with the current quota reductions, the state has been closing known horseshoe crab nesting beaches to fishing, and it is now developing research in the South Shore bays between the Shinnecock and Moriches Inlets.
 ''If there are areas of significant horseshoe crab and shore bird interactions,'' Ms. McKown said, ''then these are areas where it would be important to restrict the crab harvest in the future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CRUSTACEAN STUDY: Kim McKown, left, and John Maniscalco study horseshoe crabs in Westhampton Dunes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUSTACEANS (92%); COMMERCIAL FISHERIES LANDINGS (90%); SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (89%); BIRDS (89%); FISHERIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (79%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (79%); WILDLIFE (79%); FISHES (79%); BEACHES (78%); SEAFOOD (78%); FISHING LAW (76%); PRICE INCREASES (53%); POPULATION SIZE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



363 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: That Buzz In Your Ear May Be Green Noise

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
DESPITE the expense and the occasional back strain, Mary Burnham, a public relations consultant in San Francisco, felt good about the decision she made a few years ago to buy milk -- organic, of course -- only in heavy, reusable glass bottles. For the sake of the environment, she dutifully lugged them back and forth from the grocery store every week. Cutting out disposable paper cartons, she reasoned, meant saving trees and reducing waste.
 Or not. A friend, also a committed environmentalist, recently started questioning her good deed. ''His argument was that paper cartons are compostable and lightweight and use less energy and water than the heavy bottles, which must be transported back to a plant to be cleaned and reused,'' she said. ''I have no idea which is better, or how to find out.''
 Ms. Burnham, 35, recycles religiously, orders weekly from a community-supported farm, buys eco-friendly cleaning products and carries groceries in a canvas bag. But she admits to information overload on the environment -- from friends, advice columns, news media, even government-issued reports. Much of the advice is conflicting. 
 ''To say that you are confused and a little fed up with the often contradictory messages out there on how to live lightly on the earth is definitely not cool,'' she said in an e-mail message. ''But, heck, I'll come out and say it. I'm a little overwhelmed.''
 She is, in other words, a victim of ''green noise'' -- static caused by urgent, sometimes vexing or even contradictory information played at too high a volume for too long. 
 Two years after ''An Inconvenient Truth'' helped unleash a new tide of environmental activism, green noise pulses through the collective consciousness from all directions. The news media issues dire reports about disappearing polar bears; Web sites feature Brad Pitt arriving at a movie premiere in his hydrogen-powered BMW; bookstore shelves are piled high with titles like ''50 Simple Things You Can Do to Save the Earth''; shops carry hemp-enriched shampoo and 100-percent organic cotton tampons. 
 An environmentally conscientious consumer is left to wonder: are low-energy compact fluorescent bulbs better than standard incandescents, even if they contain traces of mercury? Which salad is more earth-friendly, the one made with organic mixed greens trucked from thousands of miles away, or the one with lettuce raised on nearby industrial farms? Should they support nuclear power as a clean alternative to coal? 
 If even well-intentioned activists are feeling overwhelmed, the average S.U.V. driver must be tuning out. And some environmentalists fear that the public might begin to ignore their message before any meaningful change can be accomplished. For them, it's a time to reassess strategies and streamline their campaigns before it's too late.
 ''We worry about it,'' said Carl Pope, the executive director of the Sierra Club. ''We all understand that today's media environment is an extremely crowded one, and message overload is the order of the day.''
 A study by the Shelton Group, an advertising agency and market research company based in Knoxville, Tenn., that focuses on environmental products, showed that consumers surveyed in 2007 were between 22 and 55 percent less likely to buy a wide range of green products than in 2006. The slipping economy had an effect, but message overload appeared to be a major factor as well, said Suzanne C. Shelton, the company's president. 
 ''What we've been seeing in focus groups is a real green backlash,'' Ms. Shelton said. Over the last six months, she added, when the agency screened environmentally themed advertisements, ''we see over half the room roll their eyes: 'Not another green message.' ''
 Jen Boulden, a founder of idealbite.com, which sends e-mail messages to its readers with daily tips about eco-friendly living, said that ''every conversation I have on the professional level is, 'If people are going to get green fatigue, we don't want to become irrelevant.' '' 
 Meanwhile, environmentally conscientious citizens, she said, ''Come in and say, 'Just tell me what I need to know, just give me the cheat sheet.' '' 
 The need to simplify the green message has become obvious, she said, especially after the argument over Nalgene bottles, which are made of a strong, reusable plastic. As recently as last summer, the bottles, marketed to sports enthusiasts, were hailed as an alternative to disposable water bottles, which environmentalists say waste petroleum, both in their manufacture and their transport. 
 But some environmental groups and scientists raised concerns that polycarbonate plastic, used in the manufacture of some Nalgene bottles, baby bottles and the linings of tin cans, can leach bisphenol-a, an endocrine-disrupting chemical. 
 Environmentalists and consumer health advocates debated the question -- to Nalgene or not to Nalgene -- seemingly endlessly. (While the company points to studies that indicate the products are safe, in April it announced plans to phase out products made from the compound.) 
 Bottled water is not the only issue people find increasingly confounding. 
 ''I would be a much more productive member of society if I didn't have to worry about, 'Should I wash dishes by hand or run the dishwasher?' '' said Erik Michaels-Ober, a 24-year-old software engineer in San Francisco. ''There are all sorts of conflicting stories about that.'' 
 Eddie Stern, 38, a media strategist in Durango, Colo., said he recently ''went nuts, just trying to buy a car'' because of the ''overload of info, from the news, from the Internet, from quote-unquote experts on the street.''
 Every new tidbit of research seemed to contradict the last. Some environmentalists made the case for a new hybrid, others insisted that buying a used model with a standard engine would save the huge amounts of energy that go into manufacturing a new vehicle. Other environmentalists supported biodiesel, on the grounds that it means, essentially, growing gas. Others countered that biodiesel still pollutes. 
 Mr. Stern said he finally settled (after a coin flip) on what seemed like the ideal compromise, a used Ford Escape hybrid. Ideal, until his brother, who works in the solar-power industry, asked, ''Where are you going to bury the battery?'' 
 In a way, the heightened public awareness about global warming shows that the early public campaigns were successful, said Chip Giller, the founder of grist.org, an environmental news and information Web site. 
 Along with that success came a torrent of green products from marketers. And it is these eco-pitchmen, trumpeting claims that are not always substantiated, whom Mr. Pope of the Sierra Club blames for generating much of the green noise.
 But others in the environmental movement say activists and nonprofits must shoulder their share of responsibility, too, for bombarding people with messages. ''The groups that are trying to get them to change overwhelm them with information,'' said Diane Tompkins, a founder of the Curious Company, a market research firm based in San Francisco. 
 Her company has conducted focus groups to investigate the psychological barriers to taking action for the sake of the environment. The activist groups ''believe that, surely, if I just gave them one more reason why they should do it, then they would,'' she said. ''But the fact is, people are not motivated by more facts. That can just reinforce their feeling of helplessness.'' 
 In response to the confusion, the Natural Resources Defense Council last year unveiled Simple Steps, a how-to campaign that broke up advice into three tiers, according to the interest and commitment level of its audience.
 People logging onto simplesteps.org can select the depth of information they desire on the basis of whether they want to spend a minute, a morning or a month adopting green habits, said Phil Gutis, the organization's communications director. 
 Leaders of Greenpeace also decided to help its audience prioritize environmental concerns, said Kate Smolski, a senior legislative coordinator. So instead of asking people to juggle disparate concerns -- including nuclear waste, coal pollution, deforestation and ocean wildlife endangerment -- the group now tries to bundle them under the umbrella of climate change. 
 So now, when the group campaigns against nuclear energy, it labels reactors a ''false solution'' to global warming. When the group talks about deforestation, the focus is on its contribution to the accumulation of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. 
 ''It's very helpful,'' Ms. Smolski said, ''to show that it's all connected.'' 
 It may also be helpful to teach patience. Climate change will take several generations to combat, and there will never be a single moment when society can declare ''mission accomplished,'' said Paul Hawken, an environmentalist and author. ''There are no watershed moments in the environment. It's a century-long process.''
 A scary prospect, given that, as Mr. Hawken said, ''even people inside the movement have the same feeling -- burnout.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HEADS, TAILS: Eddie Stern tossed a coin to choose between eco-friendly cars in Colorado.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK WOLCOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. ST8)
 MAN VERSUS MACHINE: In San Francisco, Erik Michaels-Ober does dishes by hand, rather than in a dishwasher. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. ST9) DRAWING (DRAWING BY KEN ORVIDAS HEADS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); BOOKSTORES (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (70%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (67%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (50%)

PERSON: BRAD PITT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); EARTH (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



364 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Letter From Cairo

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: Cairo 

 BODY:
 The current global energy-food crisis is, understandably, a pocketbook issue in America. But when you come to Egypt, you see how, in a society where so many more people live close to the edge, food and fuel prices could become enormously destabilizing. If these prices keep soaring, food and fuel could reshape politics around the developing world as much as nationalism or Communism did in their days. 
 A few years ago, Egypt's president, Hosni Mubarak, belatedly but clearly embarked on an economic reform path that has produced 7 percent annual growth in the last three years -- and now all that growth is being devoured by food and fuel price increases, like a plague of locusts eating through the Nile Delta. 
 Let's start the day here at Hussein el-Ashri's poultry shop -- in the lower-middle-class district of Shubra -- a shop that gives new meaning to the term ''fresh chicken.''
 Customers arrive, select a live chicken out of a coop. It's slaughtered and de-feathered while you wait and handed to you in a bag with all the parts. Business had grown steadily over the years at Ashri's shop, as Egypt's lower-middle classes could afford more meat. But in the past six months, the price of chicken has doubled. Ashri explained: ''Everything has gone up -- electricity, the price of feed, gasoline, labor, the price of medicine for the chickens. Everything.'' 
 For Egypt's poor, who make up 40 percent of the population, food makes up 60 percent of their household budget. When wheat prices double, because more U.S. farmers plant corn for biofuels, it is devastating for Egyptians, who depend on imported American wheat for their pita bread. Bread riots are now a daily occurrence here. As for chicken, all Ashri knows is that ''there are fewer customers and less traffic now.'' You need to give your kids meat, complains a lady in a veil, ''but now you give them a little smaller piece.'' 
 Next to Ashri, though, the man selling potatoes from a wooden cart is doing a brisk business. ''We can't go out anymore for entertainment,'' says one lady, whose husband is on an army pension, as she flips through the potatoes. ''But there are people a lot worse off. Some can't afford food at all.'' 
 Around the corner, at a state bakery selling subsidized bread, a small crowd has gathered, waiting for their daily ration. Someone else has collected a donkey cart full of pita scraps to be sold for animal feed. Nothing wasted.
 A discussion breaks out between the potato man and his customers about who has ''less of a conscience'' -- schoolteachers in the state school system who have to be paid to give after-school lessons because they have 80 kids in their classes and no one can learn there, or doctors in the state system who have to be bribed for decent care. It is not that they're evil; they're all being squeezed. 
 What's happening is that the basic bargain between the Egyptian regime and its people -- which said, ''We will guarantee you cheap food, a job, education and health care, and you will stay out of politics'' -- is fraying. Even with the growth of the last three years, government subsidies and wages can't keep up with today's food and fuel price rises. The only part of the bargain that's left is: ''and you will stay out of politics.''
 From Shubra we drive into the desert toward Alexandria. The highway is full of cars. How can all these Egyptians afford to be driving, I wonder? Answer: The government will spend almost $11 billion this year to subsidize gasoline and cooking fuel; gas here is only about $1.30 a gallon. Sounds like a good deal for the poor -- only the poor have no cars, and the fuel subsidies mean less money for mass transit. 
 Think about these numbers: This year Egypt will spend $6 billion on education and $3 billion on health care, far less than the subsidies for fuel. This is a terrible trap. The subsidies should have been phased out when food and fuel prices were lower. Now that they have soared, the pain of removing the subsidies would be politically suicidal. So education and health care get killed instead.
 But Egypt today is one country with two systems. Along the Alexandria highway, we pass one gated community filled with McMansions -- with names like ''Moon Valley,'' ''Hyde Park'' and ''Beverly Hills.'' One has a 99-hole golf complex. They are populated by Egyptians who have worked hard and made money in the gulf or who are part of the globalized business class here. They are entitled to their McMansions as much as Americans. But the energy and water implications of all these new gated communities is also fueling the soaring global demand.
 The good news: More Egyptians today can afford to live like Americans. The bad news: Even more Egyptians can't even afford to live like Egyptians anymore. This is not good -- not for them, not for us. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); POULTRY (90%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); LIVESTOCK FEED (88%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (86%); BIOMASS (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BIOFUELS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); WHEAT MARKETS (77%); MEAT STORES (73%); DRUG PRICES (72%); BAKERIES (62%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



365 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Reading File When Computers Hurt Instead of Help

BYLINE: Compiled by THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
WHEN COMPUTERS HURT INSTEAD OF HELP
 Ray Fisman writes on the Web site Slate about why giving computers to poor children won't necessarily help educate them.
 Parents are more worried than ever about making sure their kids can compete in today's high-tech world, and the growing digital divide is a subject of great concern for educators and policymakers. Federal subsidies in the United States provide billions of dollars for computer access in schools and libraries, and billions more may soon be spent in the developing world through programs such as One Laptop per Child. But even O.L.P.C.'s $100 laptop comes loaded with more distractions than my PET [the world's first personal computer] ever had. So will kids use these subsidized computing resources to prepare for the demands of the 21st-century job market? Or do computers just serve as a 21st-century substitute for that more venerable time-waster--the television? 
 New research by economists Ofer Malamud and Cristian Pop-Eleches provides an answer: For many kids, computers are indeed more of a distraction than a learning opportunity. The two researchers surveyed households that applied to Euro 200, a voucher distribution program in Romania designed to help poor households defray the cost of buying a computer for their children. It turns out that kids in households lucky enough to get computer vouchers spent a lot less time watching TV -- but that's where the good news ends. ''Vouchered'' kids also spent less time doing homework, got lower grades and reported lower educational aspirations than the ''unvouchered'' kids. ...
 Perhaps not surprisingly, the lesson from Romania's voucher experiment is not that computers aren't useful learning tools, but that their usefulness relies on parents being around to assure they don't simply become a very tempting distraction from the unpleasantness of trigonometry homework. But this is a crucial insight for those tasked with designing policies to bridge the digital divide. ... If we really want to help poor kids, whether in Romania, sub-Saharan Africa, or America's housing projects, we may want to focus on approaches that provide structured, supervised access through after-school programs or subsidies that bring technology into low-income schools. But just giving kids computers? Might as well just ship them PlayStations.
 THE ELUSIVENESS OF THE HUMAN MIND
 Douglas R. Hofstadter, a professor of cognitive science at Indiana University, in an interview on the Web site Tal Cohen's Bookshelf, explains why he is glad that artificial intelligence hasn't made more headway.
 Am I disappointed by the amount of progress in cognitive science and artificial intelligence in the past 30 years or so? Not at all. To the contrary, I would have been extremely upset if we had come anywhere close to reaching A.I. -- it would have made me fear that our minds and souls were not deep. Reaching the goal of A.I. in just a few decades would have made me dramatically lose respect for humanity, and I certainly don't want (and never wanted) that to happen.
 I am a deep admirer of humanity at its finest and deepest and most powerful -- of great people such as Helen Keller, Albert Einstein, Ella Fitzgerald, Albert Schweitzer, Frederic Chopin, Raoul Wallenberg, Fats Waller, and on and on. I find endless depth in such people ... and I would hate to think that all that beauty and profundity and goodness could be captured -- even approximated in any way at all! -- in the horribly rigid computational devices of our era.
 Do I still believe it will happen someday? I can't say for sure, but I suppose it will eventually, yes. I wouldn't want to be around then, though. Such a world would be too alien for me. I prefer living in a world where computers are still very, very stupid. And I get a huge kick out of laughing at the hilariously unpredictable inflexibility of the computer models of mental processes that my doctoral students and I codesign. It helps remind me of the immense subtlety and elusiveness of the human mind.
 A VERY OLD SEED GROWS IN ISRAEL
 Ari Rabinovitch writes for Reuters about an ancient date seed that sprouted and may help restore a species of biblical trees.
 Carbon dating confirmed that the seed -- named Methuselah after the oldest person in the Bible -- was the oldest ever brought back to life, Sarah Sallon, a researcher at the Hadassah Medical Centre in Jerusalem, reported in the journal Science.
 The seed came from the Judean date palm, a species that once flourished in the Jordan River Valley and has been extinct for centuries, Ms. Sallon said. It was one of a group discovered at Masada, a winter palace overlooking the Dead Sea built by King Herod in the 1st century B.C.
 The fortress was used by hundreds of Jewish insurgents in a revolt against Roman rule that erupted in 67 A.D.
 ''It has survived and flourished,'' Dr. Sallon said. Previous attempts to grow plants from ancient seeds failed after a few days. ...
 Preliminary genetic studies suggest it may share about half of its genetic code with modern dates, Dr. Sallon said.
 If the tree, which now stands about five feet tall, is female, it might be able to help restore the species which once formed thick forests throughout the Jordan River Valley, she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GETTING DIGITAL Children in a rural village in Peru use one of their school's laptops. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN MEJIA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (87%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); HOMEWORK (76%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (72%); LIBRARIES (71%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); INTERVIEWS (67%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ROMANIA (90%); AFRICA (77%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



366 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; VOWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Sarah Lucas and Jonathon Kass

BYLINE: By LOUISE RAFKIN

 BODY:
WHAT works professionally can sometimes wreak havoc on one's personal life. As a policy analyst and legislative aide to a city councilman in Washington, Jonathon Kass habitually studies issues from all angles.
 ''And that takes a lot of time,'' said Eli Ilano, his friend and former classmate at the College of Environmental Design at the University of California, Berkeley. Passionate about urban transportation policy, Mr. Kass, who gets around on a push scooter, admits to a tendency toward uncertainty. 
 Even buying a bed presented a challenge. In the Washington group house where he and Mr. Ilano lived in spring 2002, Mr. Kass slept in a sleeping bag for a month because he feared a rash purchase might preclude a full analysis of whether and for how long he would settle there. 
 ''Dating Jonathon requires patience,'' said Kate Gordon, a close friend and one of his many devoted fans. 
 Patience is not a virtue that Sarah Lucas, who met Mr. Kass at Mr. Ilano's birthday party in June 2002, would then have ascribed to herself. Friends describe her as ''decisive'' and someone who ''jumps in.'' She's small and wiry, and an accomplished coxswain who relishes speed and is comfortable at the helm. But after the party she quickly recognized that in Mr. Kass she was dealing with someone who steers his own boat, on his own time.
 Despite his analytic skills, at the party Mr. Kass misread Ms. Lucas's uncharacteristic awkwardness as a lack of interest rather than attraction. Ms. Lucas, 37 and an associate director of the Millennium Challenge Corporation, a federal foreign aid program in Washington, recalled being unnerved by Mr. Kass's obvious intelligence. ''And so cute,'' each said of the other.
 Over eight months the two met at each other's apartments to watch ''The West Wing'' television series. Eventually, Ms. Lucas proposed a meal, leading to more Washington outings.
 But were these dates? After walking Ms. Lucas home, Mr. Kass would leave her unkissed. Ms. Lucas wanted the relationship to develop; Mr. Kass said he needed ''time.''
 In January, Ms. Lucas convinced Mr. Kass, who worked a 60-hour week, to take his birthday evening off. Dinner morphed into a seven-hour conversation. And then Mr. Kass went home. Again, no kiss. 
 Days later, after a chaste overnight, and despite having by then developed some patience, Ms. Lucas asked, ''Is it normal for you to spend the night at women's houses?''
 ''I was communicating a lot of ambiguity,'' Mr. Kass, also 37, admits. ''Something was going on, but as usual I had no idea what I wanted to do about it.''
 ''Hard,'' ''very hard'' and ''excruciating'' are how Ms. Lucas's friends describe this time for her. Finally, on Feb. 9, 2003, Mr. Kass made a decision: to ''decisively'' kiss her. 
 ''Our lips fit together,'' he said with good humor. 
 Both were relieved to at last be a couple. But being together inspired more questions. 
 What now? Was this forever? 
 The situation was scrutinized and no conclusion reached. Travel, it was proposed, might force the issue. So in 2005, they left their jobs and went to Africa. For 17 months, they worked together writing reports on H.I.V./AIDS and economic policy for the Center for Global Development, all the while snorkeling, hiking and collecting new friends. Their relationship was tested and put under examination. 
 Ms. Lucas wondered if Mr. Kass was capable of the kind of emotion she craved; Mr. Kass pondered the nature of connection. 
 One night in Malawi, after a long discussion, they emerged from their fog of uncertainty and connected with new intensity. Ms. Lucas remembered thinking, ''Even if we don't have all the answers, we have this.''
 In Washington in late 2006, as they eased back into their work, Mr. Kass was again plagued by doubt. They decided it was crunch time. 
 They lived apart against the backdrop of several ticking clocks: Ms. Lucas's biological clock was growing louder, and there was, by mutual agreement, a two-month alarm set on the relationship. 
 Mr. Kass ratcheted up his research on love and relationships, reading books and surveying everyone on ''how they knew.'' 
 On March 10, 2007, minutes before the deadline, Ms. Lucas's phone rang. ''After five years, he wanted 20 minutes more!'' Ms. Lucas wailed. 
 Mr. Kass said he needed every second. The extra 20 minutes? Time to buy a ring. 
 Guests flew to Northern California from as far as South Africa and China for their May 31 wedding at the Riverlane Resort in Guerneville, Calif., which is owned by his parents, Wallie and Alby Kass, and was Mr. Kass's childhood home. Under a glorious spring sky, the bride arrived in a canoe paddled by her father, Charles Lucas of Deer Isle, Me., and were met on the shore by other family members, including her mother, Susan Lucas of San Francisco. The bride was wearing an elegant strapless, tiered sheath -- a surprise because everyone had been told she'd be wearing a silk pantsuit.
 Kristen Vickery, a friend of the couple who had been named a deputy marriage commissioner by Sonoma County for the event, led the couple in their vows. 
 Mr. Kass invoked Barack Obama's speech on race about creating ''a more perfect union'' and then proclaimed, to an outburst of understanding and loving laughter, ''How great to be here knowing what I want.'' Under the wedding canopy, Ms. Lucas wiped away tears.
 As the couple left by canoe, the bride was seated in the bow, facing forward. As if on cue, a nearby fly fisherman snagged a trout. It was hard not to see the metaphor. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GUERNEVILLE, CALIF., MAY 31: The bride and the bridegroom celebrated their wedding both on land and in the Russian River.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (63%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



367 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1640 words

HEADLINE: Tasers Getting More Prominent Role in Crime Fighting in City

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

 BODY:
After decades languishing in the trunks of squad cars, the Taser, the handgun-shaped device that incapacitates people with a pulsating electrical current, is getting a chance at a higher profile in the New York Police Department.
 The Taser's career in New York has contrasted with its ubiquity around the nation, as police officials from Wisconsin to California have praised its usefulness, particularly in encounters with the emotionally disturbed. According to the device's manufacturer, Taser International, more than 345,000 Tasers have been sold to 12,750 law enforcement and military agencies in 44 countries, with 4,500 agencies distributing them to their entire forces.
 By contrast, about 500 Tasers are deployed in New York.
 The weapon has not been fully embraced by the Police Department, the nation's largest police force, partly because of the difficulties in maintaining the devices and in training officers. But it is also because Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly has looked cautiously at Taser technology. Stun guns have a troubled history here: An early model was at the center of a scandal in the early 1980s when it was used to force drug suspects to confess. Mr. Kelly, then a deputy inspector, was assigned to clean up the mess. 
 The old stun gun looked like an electric razor and worked when applied directly to a person's body. Today's Taser fires a dart at its target from a distance.
 Last week, a report on a study of police shootings -- commissioned in 2007 after a Queens man, Sean Bell, was killed by officers -- recommended that the New York police experiment with using Tasers more. In response, Mr. Kelly said that Tasers would move out of the dark trunks of select police vehicles to sergeants' crowded gun belts. But he remained cautious, saying sergeants would still be the only ones with the authority to handle Tasers. That population of 3,500 supervisors is larger than most other departments.
 ''This is like turning a battleship around, or an aircraft carrier,'' Mr. Kelly said of the challenges of implementing any new law enforcement tool in the Police Department. The New York force, for example, switched later than others from 6-shot revolvers to 9-millimeter semiautomatic pistols. And even then the semiautomatics initially carried only 10 shots, not the regular 16.
 The shooting report, by the RAND Corporation, suggested that Tasers still required more study in New York, particularly since there was a dearth of reliable data about their use. 
 Christopher T. Dunn, the associate legal director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, said the concern now is whether officers will use Tasers in situations where they traditionally had used much less force, and whether civilians will be unnecessarily and more frequently subjected to their use.
 ''Is it actually an alternative that leads to reduced use of firearms by the police?'' Mr. Dunn said. ''Or does it lead to increased use of force? The concern is we are going up the ladder of force, as opposed to coming down the ladder.''
 RAND researchers, in studying the department's analysis of 455 of its shootings, said that officers might have been able to end confrontations more quickly by using a less lethal device -- like a Taser -- before those encounters escalated to a point where deadly force was necessary. They did not say that Tasers should supplant handguns.
 Mr. Kelly, who wants his top commanders to read the RAND study and give him feedback, said he would probably carry out a variation of the RAND suggestion that the department create a pilot program in selected precincts to expand the availability of Tasers.
 He said two precincts would likely be chosen for the program -- one with Tasers and one without them, as a control -- based on their work volume and demographics. But, he quickly added, ''I cannot stress enough that no decision has been made on this.''
 Stun guns were introduced in New York in the early 1980s, when officers were confronting a higher number of disturbed people because of the rapid and widespread deinstitutionalization of mental health patients. The devices were not seen as a success.
 The technology had not been perfected and the devices were kept mostly in Emergency Service Unit officers' trucks. Several high-ranking officers and sergeants were transferred from the 106th Precinct in Queens after officers were charged with using stun guns on drug suspects during interrogations. Mr. Kelly was assigned by Commissioner Benjamin Ward to clean things up. 
 Perhaps spurred by memories of that scandal, Mr. Kelly added a cautionary line to the new rules of engagement for the Taser. The order, published on June 4, said that putting a Taser directly against someone's body should not be the primary method of use and that such cases of ''touch-stun mode'' would be investigated.
 Currently, the police deploy the Taser about 300 times a year, mainly when responding to some of the 80,000 calls for emotionally disturbed people. Mr. Kelly says that when the Taser has been used, it has worked well. ''We have to be careful, we have to be conservative, in our deployment of these devices,'' he said.
 In 2007, 41 people complained of being struck with a Taser by officers and 9 said they had been confronted by officers brandishing one, according to Andrew Case, a spokesman for the city's Civilian Complaint Review Board, which investigates allegations of wrongdoing by officers. Of those complaints, one was substantiated, he said.
 So far this year, the board has received 17 complaints from people who said they were struck with a Taser by officers and 6 from those who said they were confronted by them, Mr. Case said. None of the 2008 cases have been fully investigated yet; eight have been closed because the victim refused to provide a statement, one has been withdrawn, and the others remain open.
 The Taser model being used in New York is the M26, which is not the newest version (that is the X26, which is 60 percent lighter and smaller). The M26 is yellow, looks like a 9-millimeter Glock, weighs about 16 ounces and costs about $400.
 The weapon uses a compressed-nitrogen cartridge to launch two probes that travel 15 to 35 feet. At the end of each probe is a wire that attaches to the skin and clothing. The Taser can work through about two cumulative inches of clothing, said Stephen D. Tuttle, a Taser spokesman. The probes deliver 3,000 volts of electrical current to the body, or 0.36 joules per pulse. (There are 19 pulses a second, and each trigger cycle lasts for 5 seconds).
 By contrast, a cardiac defibrillator operates with 360 joules per pulse on average, Mr. Tuttle said. The Taser pulses stimulate the motor nerves, impairing communication between the brain and the muscles and essentially incapacitating the person, he said.
 Kenneth S. McGuire, a sergeant with the Temple University police in Philadelphia, said his 110-member force does not use the Taser, but he would like to change that. In 2006, he became a certified trainer in the use of the Taser. To help him understand the device, he even took a Taser hit to his back.
 ''Basically, the only way I can explain it is if you've ever gotten a really bad leg cramp in your calf, if you're swimming, imagine that in your whole body; that's how it feels,'' Sergeant McGuire said. ''Your muscles freeze up, they call it the plywood effect.''
 He added, ''It lasts up to five seconds. And then you're fine, you're good to go.''
 Tasers came under a new spotlight as the image of a square-jawed Mr. Kelly holding a stun gun was beamed across the media landscape on Monday and Tuesday, and as news spread that the nation's largest police forcewas taking a fresh look at the device. At the same time, a sea of controversial Taser headlines seemed to crop up. It was not the first time. A video of a student being subdued with a Taser by campus security at the University of Florida during a John Kerry speech in 2007 -- and imploring, ''Don't Tase me, bro!'' -- became a YouTube sensation. 
 On Monday, a 26-year-old man died after he was shocked twice with a Taser by an officer on Long Island trying to keep him from swallowing a bag of cocaine, the Suffolk County police said. The man, Tony Curtis Bradway of Brooklyn, spat out a white powder and ''remnants of a plastic bag,'' the police said, and he died at a hospital nine hours after the episode. 
 The next day, news broke that a federal jury in California had held Taser International partly responsible in the death of a Salinas, Calif., man and had awarded his family more than $6 million in that civil case. It was the first loss in court for the Arizona company, said Mr. Tuttle, who added that the company had 70 wins or dismissals in civil cases and noted that the jury in the California case had found the company ''15 percent'' liable for the man's death.
 On Wednesday, Sanford A. Rubenstein, a lawyer, announced the filing of a lawsuit against New York City in the case of a retired police lieutenant's son who had been hit four times with a Taser after the police responded to a barbecue at his Harlem home last August.
 The man, Alexander Lombard III, who was 18 at the time, ''has permanent Taser marks and scarring,'' Mr. Rubenstein said. ''And he is getting counseling and getting physical therapy.''
 Also on Wednesday, Amnesty International said it had tracked more than 300 cases since 2001 in which people died after being shocked by a Taser. And although studies have not shown what role the devices might have played in those deaths, ''extreme caution'' is in order, said Larry R. Cox, the executive director of Amnesty.
 ''They should be fired in circumstances when the use of deadly force would be the only alternative,'' said Mr. Cox. He said that the Taser's billing as a ''safe, nonlethal instrument'' was faulty.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sgt. Patrick Donnelly with a Taser on his gun belt outside the Midtown North station house. (PHOTGRAPH BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A25)
 Police sergeants like Patrick Donnelly are the only ones authorized to carry and use Tasers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (92%); SHOOTINGS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (75%); NAVAL VESSELS (75%); FIREARMS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); RAND CORP (62%); TASER INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

TICKER: TASR (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (62%); NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



368 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Free and Flush, Russians Are Venturing Abroad

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

DATELINE: ANTALYA, Turkey 

 BODY:
Yelena Kasyanova booked her trip at a local travel agency in about as much time it takes to drop by the market for a few groceries. She was soon lounging here by the Mediterranean, a working-class anybody from an anyplace deep in Russia, a child of the Soviet era who still remembers the humiliating strictures that once made it difficult to obtain a passport, let alone a plane ticket.
 And all around the beach were so many just like her.
 One of the most enduring changes in the lives of Russians in recent years has occurred not in Russia itself, but in places like this coastal region of Turkey, where an influx of Russian tourists has given rise to a mini-industry catering to their needs. A people who under Communism were rarely allowed to venture abroad, and then lacked money to do so when the political barriers first fell, are now seeing the world. And relishing it. 
 There is perhaps no better symbol of the growth in Russian tourism than the very resort where Ms. Kasyanova was staying, the Kremlin Palace Hotel, a kind of Las-Vegas-does-Moscow-by-the-shore extravaganza whose buildings are replicas of major sights at the Kremlin complex and nearby neighborhood. Why go to any old spot when you can frolic by the pool while gazing at the reassuring onion domes of a faux St. Basil's Cathedral? (No need to bundle up against the cold, either!)
 Ms. Kasyanova, 51, a health-care aide from the Kaluga region, 125 miles southwest of Moscow, has been to Egypt, Hungary and Turkey in the last few years and has Western Europe in her sights. For her and other Russians interviewed here, foreign travel reflects not just Russia's economic revival under Vladimir V. Putin, but also how the country has become, in some essential ways, normal.
 If you have some time and a little money, you can travel. Just like everyone else in the world.
 ''It is now so easy -- buy a package tour for $800, and here we are, in paradise,'' said Ms. Kasyanova, who, like many Russians here, was amused by the resort's trappings but also interested in exploring the mountains and other places nearby. ''It speaks of the high standard of life in Russia, of the improvement in life in Russia.''
 The Russians are coming from all over. At the local airport here, the arrivals screen was like a primer in Russian geography, with charter flights from Moscow, Rostov-on-Don in the south, Kazan in the center, Novosibirsk in Siberia and other cities in between. 
 The number of Russian tourists visiting countries outside the former Soviet Union grew to 7.1 million in 2006, the last year statistics were available, from 2.6 million in 1995, according to the Russian government.
 A record 2.5 million Russians visited Turkey in 2007, up 33 percent from 2006, Turkish officials said. Only Germany, that paragon of European wealth, sends more tourists to Turkey. (By contrast, in 1988, a few years before the collapse of the Soviet Union, all of 22,000 Soviet citizens visited Turkey.)
 The Russian tourism boom is happening as new low-cost airlines in Europe have spurred a sharp increase in tourism across the Continent. But for the Russians, the chance to travel is especially prized.
 For the first time in Russian history, wide swaths of the citizenry are being exposed to life in far-off lands, helping to ease a kind of insularity and parochialism that built up in the Soviet era. Back then, the public was not only prevented from going abroad; it was also inculcated with propaganda that the Soviet Union was unquestionably the world's best country, so there was no need to leave anyway.
 People who desired foreign travel in Soviet times typically had to receive official approval, and if it was granted, they were closely chaperoned once they crossed the border. Even before they left, they often were sent to classes to be indoctrinated in how to behave and avoid the perils of foreign influence. Those who were not in good standing with the party had little chance of going. 
 The controls on travel were particularly onerous given Russia's long and dark winters.
 ''For us, it's like a fairy tale to be here,'' said Lilia Valeyeva, 46, a clerk from Chelyabinsk in the Ural Mountains who had never before been abroad when she visited Turkey two years ago. Since then, she has returned twice.
 ''We are seeing other countries with our own eyes, how other people live,'' she said. 
 Many Russians interviewed here credited Mr. Putin, the former president and current prime minister, for their ability to travel, saying that he was responsible for Russia's new prosperity.
 ''It is not like before, when we were afraid of everything,'' said Larisa Kazakova, 32, a real estate agent from Yekaterinburg. ''We travel, and we live a good life.''
 These days, Russians can compare the services they receive abroad with those at home, and can mingle with tourists from everywhere. How these experiences will alter their perspective at home is an intriguing question.
 The writer and commentator Viktor Yerofeyev said he had noticed that the more Russians traveled, the more they tended to lose some of the coarseness that at times characterized Soviet society.
 ''Through all this travel, we are seeing a change in mentality at home,'' Mr. Yerofeyev said. ''People are now seeking pleasure, whether it is in the night clubs of Moscow or in restaurants. Travel is a continuation of that pleasure. Just to have pleasant lives, not to suffer, to feel positive. Their life compass changes, from 'I don't care about anything' to 'I would like to have a better life.' Travel is a part of this.''
 ''The world is becoming part of their lives,'' he said.
 The first major wave of Russian tourists after the fall of the Soviet Union did not necessarily do their country proud, sometimes acting like rowdy college freshmen getting a taste of spring break in Florida. There were tales of hotels limiting or even banning some Russian tour groups because of drunken behavior.
 Hotel executives in Turkey said things had largely settled down, with many Russian families now vacationing here, and relatively few problems.
 ''Nobody believes me when I say this, but the Germans drink even more than the Russians,'' said Ali Akgun, a manager at another hotel in the area, the Kemer Holiday Club. ''It's just that the Russians drink a little faster.''
 The biggest struggle now for the Turkish hotels is to find enough staff members who speak Russian. Those in the tourism industry who had mastered German and English are returning to language school. 
 ''Everybody is studying Russian now,'' said Suat Esenli, a worker at the Kremlin Palace Hotel, which has more than 800 rooms and opened in 2003, just as Russian tourism began to soar. Typically, about 60 percent of the hotel's patrons are from the former Soviet Union, with the rest from elsewhere in Europe.
 Still, the effort to make Russian guests feel comfortable can go too far. For a time, one of the hotel restaurants served the sort of dishes -- borscht, blinis and the like -- that should have brought joy to a Russian's heart.
 The restaurant had to scrap the menu. It turned out that the last thing that the Russians wanted was the food they could get at home.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A water aerobics class at a hotel in Antalya, Turkey, built for Russian tourists to resemble the Kremlin and St. Basil's Cathedral. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHAN SPANNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
 A Russian family, above, played cards recently during a vacation at the Kremlin Palace Hotel in Antalya, Turkey. Other Russian tourists joined in a dance contest there, left. The resort caters to Russians, who are visiting Turkey in growing numbers.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHAN SPANNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); RESORTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); AIRPORTS (76%); BEACHES (76%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); TOUR PACKAGES (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); WATER SPORTS (65%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) NEVADA, USA (79%) TURKEY (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



369 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Fuel Thoughts

BYLINE: By VERLYN KLINKENBORG

 BODY:
Between Lowell and Lawrence, Mass., last Tuesday mid-afternoon, the temperature reached 102 degrees. By the time I got to Boothbay Harbor, Me., the thermometer had dropped 40 degrees. To my surprise, the price of fuel had dropped too. In my experience, gas is always more expensive where you're going than where you're coming from, unless you're going to Indiana. At stations along the secondary roads in New York State, diesel fuel, which is what my pickup takes, was over $5 a gallon. In Boothbay Harbor, it was $4.79, and the lobster rolls were cheaper too. 
 At these prices, driving simply feels different. For one thing, the margins of America's highways are turning into a used-car lot. If gas stays this expensive, grass will soon be growing through the floorboards of the Range Rovers and Suburbans I saw parked -- for-sale signs in their windows -- at the ends of driveways. I found myself wondering whether their fuel tanks were absolutely empty and whether, in fact, those vehicles wouldn't be worth more as scrap steel -- chopped and crushed and shipped to China. 
 What these gas prices really do is let you see through the illusion of shiny new cars. One of the basic automotive laws is that nearly every vehicle is losing value from the moment it's driven off the lot. As traffic slowed, and fuel-mileage dropped, through Portland, Me., I looked out at the cars around me and could practically feel depreciation -- economic rust -- eating away at them, and at me too, and all the faster thanks to high gas prices. My pickup was dwindling in value even as the value of the fuel in its tank was going up. 
 It was a puzzle, really. It may have looked like we were all trying to get somewhere, there on I-295. What we were really doing was burning the gas in our tanks before it became too valuable even to think of burning. I filled up before I left Boothbay Harbor, of course: 24 gallons, $118. My plan was to get home before I couldn't afford to. I had driven to Maine to speak at a conference named in honor of Rachel Carson. You can imagine how that felt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); THERMAL SENSORS (78%); DIESEL FUEL (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



370 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; THE ARTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Role of Soldier Haunted by Internal Battle Is Close to Actor's Heart

BYLINE: By IRIS HISKEY ARNO

DATELINE: Dobbs Ferry 

 BODY:
 ''SOLDIER'S Heart,'' an independent film that won the prize for Best Narrative Feature Film at the G.I. Film Festival in Washington last month, stars an actor for whom the film has personal resonance. The actor, James Kiberd, who has lived here for 21 years, said his father served in World War II ''and his friends all said he came back changed.'' 
 ''He never talked about what had happened to him in the war,'' Mr. Kiberd said. ''But he inflicted it on his family.'' 
 Shortly before filming ''Soldier's Heart,'' Mr. Kiberd (pronounced KYE-bird) found out the specific event -- related to a battle in the North Atlantic -- that had haunted his father, who is now deceased. Mr. Kiberd has kept the knowledge to himself, for the most part, but used it to develop Elliot, his character in ''Soldier's Heart.'' 
 Elliot is a Vietnam War veteran struggling with post-traumatic stress disorder, previously known as ''battle fatigue,'' or ''Soldier's Heart'' during the Civil War era. Brian Delate, the film's writer and director, who also plays a smaller role, is himself such a vet. He suffered from symptoms of the disorder upon his return home from Southeast Asia and again after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
 A study released by the RAND Corporation in April reported that as many as 20 percent of veterans return from Iraq and Afghanistan showing signs of post-traumatic stress or major depression. Mr. Kiberd is emphatic about the importance of reintegrating these soldiers into society. ''We prepare them to go to war, but do we prepare for them to come home?'' he asked. ''You have to welcome them back, invite them to share their stories and then, as a culture, be willing to bear the burden of the stories. We are not doing that yet.''
 Mr. Kiberd has portrayed soldiers before, including the emotionally scarred Vietnam vet Mike Donovan in the ABC soap opera ''Loving.'' But the role for which he is best known is Trevor Dillon, the mercenary turned detective on another ABC daytime drama, ''All My Children.'' Originally conceived as a five-day role, that character, which Mr. Kiberd helped develop, became an integral part of the show for 11 years. It was so popular that the actor harnessed his fans' passion to raise more than $100,000 for Unicef. He became one of its celebrity ambassadors, traveling to Cameroon, Ghana, South Africa and the Dominican Republic. 
 ''I've always wanted my art to challenge and examine who we are,'' Mr. Kiberd said. Before he took up acting, he was trained as a painter, and with financing from the National Endowment for the Arts and the New York State Council on the Arts, he became an artist in residence in Haverstraw, in Rockland County. He worked in a storefront studio and ran a cultural arts enrichment program, hiring disadvantaged youths to paint murals and otherwise beautify their community through art. 
 ''I saw that when the kids spent the summer changing the way the place they lived looked, it changed the vibe of the community,'' he said.
 Because Mr. Kiberd and Mr. Delate, who have been friends for 20 years, hope to reach veterans with ''Soldier's Heart,'' its premiere at the four-day G.I. Film Festival, which celebrates the successes and sacrifices of the American military through film, was particularly significant. A highlight of the event for Mr. Kiberd was meeting Brig. Gen. Loree Sutton, the head of the Defense Center of Excellence for Psychological Health and Traumatic Brain Injury and a champion of mental health treatment for veterans. 
 General Sutton was away on emergency leave and could not be reached for comment, but she attended the festival. Her reaction to the film was captured and posted on YouTube: ''It's because of movies like this that we start to build those bridges so that we can start talking -- even about the most difficult and painful aspects that war represents,'' she said. 
 ''It was deeply moving on every level,'' she added, ''and I just thank the filmmakers and everyone here from the bottom of my heart -- a soldier's heart.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IN 'SOLDIER'S HEART' Brian Delate, right, directs James Kiberd. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); VETERANS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); WORLD WAR II (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (71%); MENTAL ILLNESS (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); DEPRESSION (66%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (65%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (65%); WRITERS (65%); TERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); GHANA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); CAMEROON (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



371 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; LETTERS TO THE EDITOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: Maligned Buses, Beloved Trees, Perilous Crossings Chinatown Buses: Criticized but Vital

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 ''Dreams and Desperation on Forsyth Street'' (June 8), by Saki Knafo, presented a truly sensitive and moving portrait of the real people behind the often maligned Chinatown bus companies.
 As a twice-weekly loyal customer of the Apex Bus company for the last two years, I have witnessed firsthand the hard work of the ticket sellers and bus drivers under very difficult circumstances. It was about time that someone told their story, and made vivid the importance of the Chinatown buses to the cultural and economic fabric of Chinatown. Rima Finzi-Strauss
 Lower East Side 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



372 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION LONG ISLAND; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: A Slow Market Can Have Its Perks

BYLINE: By VALERIE COTSALAS

 BODY:
A SLOW real estate market on the East End has increased the supply of vacation rentals, as more sellers take their homes off the market and offer them for rent instead.
 The most desirable rentals -- oceanfront with lots of land, tennis courts, swimming pool and cabana -- were gone by January. But several Hamptons brokers say the spring months have induced far more than the usual number of sellers to cross over to the rental market.
 One broker, Karen Andrews of the Corcoran office in Westhampton, estimated that homes there were staying on the market 30 percent longer than in previous years -- an inducement to rent out, if ever there was one. The number of sales in Southampton and East Hampton dropped 42.4 percent, to 312, in the first quarter of 2008, from 542 sales in the same period last year, according to a report by Miller Samuel, a Manhattan appraisal firm, for Prudential Douglas Elliman. 
 ''There are many more houses that were built over the last five years,'' said Paul Brennan, a broker in the Bridgehampton office of Prudential Douglas Elliman. ''You can't all of a sudden put them all on the market for rent when the market has gone down and then expect them all to rent.''
 But renting out a home for the summer -- and thus making it inaccessible to potential buyers -- may be part of the reason that it stays on the market longer over all, said Diane Saatchi, a broker in Corcoran's East Hampton office. ''Unlike a primary market,'' Ms. Saatchi said, ''we have a season to reckon with.'' If a seller decides to rent out the house for the summer, he or she ''can expect to hold it for another year, as the three-month rental is likely to rule out showings in the busiest shopping season.''
 To get around that problem, some homeowners are offering giveaways, including $10,000 bonuses for brokers in exchange for a signed contract, a free boat or car for buyers, or a year's worth of fuel costs, Ms. Saatchi said.
 One homeowner in Quogue, an oceanfront community within the town of Southampton, has gone so far as to enlist the promotional help of Dr. Stephen Greenberg, a New York City plastic surgeon. For $500,000, a renter interested lots of plastic surgery (up to $125,000 worth) would get the eight-bedroom house in Quogue for two months (a $225,000 value), accompanied by some very expensive pampering to aid recuperation: Along with the rental's heated pool and tennis courts, there would be unlimited chauffeur service, a new wardrobe costing up to $50,000, a private chef, a housemaid, a personal nurse, weekly spa treatments totaling $25,000, and invitations to two or three exclusive parties. (The promotion is more about being cosseted than getting a great deal, but it would still make the most financial sense for a patient who had several procedures. A facelift, one of the pricier surgeries, can cost as much as $15,000; a tummy tuck or breast lift, as much as $12,000.) 
 ''With the economy and the real estate market where it is,'' said Dr. Greenberg, who has offices in Manhattan and in Nassau County, ''there are a lot of houses in the Hamptons that have been on the market for a while, and people can't sell them and they can't rent them.'' 
 The doctor is in partnership in the arrangement with real estate agents, including Ms. Andrews, who has listed the Quogue house for $225,000 from Memorial Day through Labor Day. 
 (This is the doctor's first promotional attempt involving a Hamptons rental, but generally he is not shy about employing public relations: since 2003 he has played host, and paid most expenses for, an annual cosmetic surgery fashion show, in which some of his patients strut the runway showing off their enhanced physiques.) 
 Any legal methods are welcome in this climate, as brokers see more short sales and the occasional mortgage default. 
 For some on the high end, renting out a house in the Hamptons market can yield up to nine months of a year's mortgage payments, said Ellen Bitton, a mortgage broker with Park Avenue Mortgage Group in Manhattan and Bridgehampton. Though she hasn't encountered multimillion-dollar mortgage defaults, 4 of the 16 Southampton properties that entered the first stage of foreclosure in April had outstanding liens of more than $1 million, including one for $3.575 million, according to Propertyshark.com, an Internet-based firm that tracks foreclosure filings. 
 According to Mr. Brennan, Bridgehampton has had a brisk rental season, but Southampton village is slower than usual. Meanwhile, in less affluent markets like Hampton Bays and Montauk, he said, ''everyday people are struggling because they're in over their heads'' in mortgage debt.
 Lawrence Porter, a broker with Prudential Douglas Elliman in Southampton and Westhampton, described people ''just in the beginning stages of lis pendens'' -- the first notice of mortgage default -- who need to rent out for the summer to avoid missing their payments in the fall. 
 With such a flood of homes entering the rental market in late spring, Mr. Brennan added, owners needing to rent out can't afford to set rates too high for July and August. ''Right now,'' he said, ''if you want to rent your house and you have not done it, then you have to be somewhat flexible. You have to listen to offers.''
 To be sure, at the high end, homeowners would most likely invite relatives or friends to use the house rather than accept a lowball rental rate from a stranger, Mr. Brennan said.
 But a majority of owners seem to be getting extra pressure to be flexible on rents. Mr. Porter, for example, says he is more involved in negotiations between renters and homeowners than in the past.
 And more renters are shortening the rental period. ''The season used to be 16 weeks long,'' Mr. Porter said. ''If business was good, it was 18 weeks. Now the season is more like July through Labor Day, which is about 9 or 10 weeks.'' He ascribes the change to a tighter economy, uncertainty on Wall Street and job layoffs.
 But as for promotional giveaways and other inducements, the market is not so terrible that every broker is completely in love with the idea. Mr. Brennan, for one, expressed disdain for the broker bonuses offered by desperate sellers. ''It makes real estate more like a circus than a profession,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PACKAGE DEAL: For a rather hefty fee, one can get two months in a house in Quogue along with plastic surgery and other services.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); NEW ISSUES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (61%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (60%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



373 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Scraping the Sky, And Then Some

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
THE world's population is expected to climb to nine billion by the middle of the century, from six and a half billion today, according to the United Nations, and a staggering number of those people are likely to be living in big cities. 
 A pressing question for developers and urban planners is how to accommodate the growing urban masses, especially in developing countries of Asia and Africa. But one point is clear: The skyscraper will play a central role. 
 Nearly seven years after the collapse of the World Trade Center in New York portended a pullback from cloud-grazing construction, the world is in the midst of a huge wave of tall building construction, both in number and in size. Some 36 buildings rise more than 300 meters, or roughly 1,000 feet, the threshold generally used to define ''supertall'' buildings, according to the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, a nonprofit organization based at the Illinois Institute of Technology. An additional 69 supertalls are under construction, the council estimates. 
 Some of the most ambitious developments are in the petro-fueled economies of the Middle East and Russia. Among the most anticipated is the $1 billion Burj Dubai, a massive tower being developed by Emaar Properties in the United Arab Emirates. Although it is not yet complete, the tower has already surpassed the current record holder: Taipei 101 in Taiwan.
 The final height has been a closely guarded secret, though the Burj Dubai's 160-plus floors and spire are expected to reach more than 2,600 feet into the sky when it is completed next year, nearly 1,000 feet more than Taipei 101, which was completed in 2004. To put it in perspective, that's almost an entire Chrysler Building higher.
 Not to be outdone, the Saudi Arabian multibillionaire Prince al-Walid bin Talal recently unveiled plans for a mile-high tower near the Red Sea port of Jeddah that, if built, would be twice the height of the Burj Dubai. 
 ''It is the modern equivalent of New York in the 1920s,'' said David Scott, a principal at Arup, an engineering firm, and the chairman of the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat. 
 A three-part exhibition in Manhattan at the Skyscraper Museum -- ''Future City: 2021'' -- explores this theme by comparing New York in the 1920s and '30s, when audacious skyscrapers rose up and captured the public's imagination, with its modern-day peers in Asia, namely Hong Kong and Shanghai. ''New York Modern,'' the first leg of the exhibit, concludes later this month, and will be followed by ''Vertical Cities: Hong KongNew York.'' An examination of Shanghai is planned for next year.
 As the show suggests, the center of gravity today has shifted from North America and Europe to Asia and the Middle East, where supertalls are rising at a frenetic pace. (In Dubai, the construction crane is jokingly called the national bird.) Supertalls are also going up in countries like India, Kazakhstan and Brazil.
 The trend, said Carol Willis, an urban historian and director of the Skyscraper Museum, reflects the expanding economies of those regions and their desire to compete for international status and business. 
 In contrast, she says that large developments in New York and other Western cities these days are likely to encounter public opposition -- as evidenced by initial public reaction to Forrest City Ratner's plan for the 22-acre Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn, and Jean Nouvel's soaring Midtown Manhattan tower, commissioned by Hines, an international real estate developer. 
 And tighter credit in the United States has developers increasingly looking at emerging markets.
 ''People are looking at where else they can put their money to work,'' said Jeff Cushman, executive managing director of Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate services firm. 
 The newest skyscrapers are breaking old molds. In the United States, the tallest buildings have tended to be office towers, but in Asia and the Middle East, the towers now going up are often residential or mixed-use buildings, with developers selling off residential units to generate cash flow. The new towers are also likely to be built from concrete or composite materials rather than traditional steel and to incorporate so-called green design features. 
 In many cases, they serve as a focal point for larger-scale master plans. The Burj, for example, is at the center of a $20 billion, 500-acre development of downtown Dubai. Residential units in the Burj are selling for as high as $3,500 a square foot. The tower's presence has already increased the value of nearby properties by as much as 60 percent, according to Emaar. 
 To get a sense of the pace of change, the Council on Tall Buildings has projected what will be the tallest 20 buildings in 2020, measured by height from sidewalk to their architectural top. (Its researchers included only buildings that have developers and financing and have moved beyond the concept phase, but there is no certainty that they will be built, especially given the current economic downturn. The list does not include developments that are being planned but kept under wraps, like the Saudi mile-high tower.) 
 Icons like the Empire State Building in New York and the Sears Tower in Chicago, which have long been enshrined among the tallest buildings in the world, are bumped from the list. The Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur, currently just behind Taipei 101, fall to 20th place. 
 Only two towers in the United States make the list. At 2,000 feet and 150 stories, the Chicago Spire, a twisting residential tower designed by Santiago Calatrava that broke ground last summer, ranks sixth on the list. It is being developed by the Shelbourne Development Group, a developer based in Dublin that took over the project from Fordham Development. One World Trade Center in New York, also known as the Freedom Tower, from Silverstein Properties and designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, comes in at No. 11, at a symbolic 1,776 feet. 
 By that time, the fruits of other urban-planning ideas may emerge. At the World Science Festival last month, a session titled ''Future Cities'' explored ideas like vertical urban farms growing local produce and zero-carbon mini cars that can nest like airport luggage carts when not in use.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Among many new skyscrapers being planned are, clockwise from top left, the Mubarak al- Kabir tower in Kuwait, Burj Dubai in the United Arab Emirates, Russia Tower in Moscow, Incheon Tower in South Korea, the Freedom Tower in New York, and the Chicago Spire.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RENDERINGS FROM LEFT, EKA/CIVICARTS
PRNEWSFOTO/SKIDMORE, OWINGS & MERRILL LLP
FOSTER + PARTNERS
JOHN PORTMAN & ASSOCIATES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY RENDERING AT LEFT, WEBER SHANDWICK, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS
 ABOVE, DBOX/SKIDMORE, OWINGS & MERRILL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); ENGINEERING (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); POPULATION SIZE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: PRINCE ALWALEED BIN TALAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); INCHON, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (56%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); RED SEA (77%); INDIAN OCEAN (67%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); TAIWAN (92%); AFRICA (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); HONG KONG (79%); KUWAIT (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



374 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 5266 words

HEADLINE: THE MAN FOR A NEW SUDAN

BYLINE: By ELIZA GRISWOLD. 
Eliza Griswold is a New America Foundation fellow. Her book, ''The 10th Parallel: Where Christianity and Islam Collide in Africa and Asia,'' is due out next year.

 BODY:
When Roger Winter's single-engine Cessna Caravan touched down near the Sudanese town of Abyei on Easter morning, a crowd of desperate men swamped the plane. Some came running over the rough red airstrip. Others crammed into a microbus that barreled toward the 65-year-old Winter as he climbed down the plane's silver ladder. Some Sudanese call Winter ''uncle''; others call him ''commander.'' On this day, angry and anxious, the people of Abyei wanted Winter's help in averting a return to civil war between the predominantly Arab north and the black south -- a decades-long conflict, claiming more than two million dead, that Winter helped to end with his work on the Comprehensive Peace Agreement of 2005. 
 Winter blinked in the flat light. It was 9 a.m., and the Caravan's fuselage cast the only shadow. Abyei is 600 miles north of the equator, and this was the height of the dry season. The sun sucked the color from everything; alongside the airstrip a herd of gaunt cows licked at the last remnants of mud. The cows would head back north when the rains returned. The people who tend them, the Arab tribe called Misseriya, would then be gone for the season, and northern forces, guided by the national government in Khartoum, would feel free to swoop down and force the Ngok Dinka farmers farther south. Burning villages, killing young men, raping and abducting women and children: this creates ethnic facts on the ground to justify pushing the border south and increasing the north's control of a territory rich in oil. From Easter until May was not much time to forestall the attack, and Winter knew it.
 For the past quarter century -- as head of a nongovernmental organization called the U.S. Committee for Refugees, as an official at the federal Agency for International Development and, most recently, as a special representative to the State Department for Sudan, a post created for him -- Winter has fought in the back rooms of Washington and in the African bush to bring peace to Sudan. It's not evenhandedness that makes him effective; it's his total commitment to the people of south Sudan and a conviction, which has only grown with the years, that the government in Khartoum is, in essence, a brutal cabal. After two decades of fighting for their rights at negotiating tables, he has gained the southerners' complete trust. ''He's simple and clear,'' Edward Lino, the southern government's chairman in Abyei, told me. ''He doesn't mince words. He's a great man'' who also ''has great, great push.''
 His stamina is also legendary. Once, during an all-night meeting on the 2005 agreement, a snake bit Winter as he raced through tall grass to present an amended paragraph for the south's approval. Intent on striking a deal, he thought he had run into a rock until a colleague pointed out fang marks in his leg the next day. Senator Jack Danforth, the Bush administration's special envoy to Sudan from 2001 to 2004, calls him ''a saint,'' an ''excellent, excellent human being,'' whose ''soulfulness'' inspires trust in those he serves. According to Danforth, Winter's intense attachment to the southern side was an asset in the context of a larger diplomatic offensive. ''The same person,'' Danforth notes, ''doesn't have to talk to everybody.'' Winter's bond with the south is such that, since retiring in August 2006, he has worked pro bono as an adviser to the government of southern Sudan, a government he helped to build following the 2005 agreement.
 The Comprehensive Peace Agreement -- which ended the north-south war but did nothing to stop the conflict to the west in Darfur -- was among the Bush administration's few major foreign-policy successes. Now it's coming undone, and the collapse is beginning in Abyei, a hot little village built up into a town by oil companies. The population grew to 30,000 from 5,000 as its residents returned after two decades of war. Around a buzzing market of tin-roofed lean-tos and U.N. food warehouses, people were building huts and hanging up tarps. But on the main road, the armies of north and south were mobilizing T-72 tanks and amassing more soldiers. 
 Abyei is at the southern edge of arid land and the beginning of sub-Saharan jungle -- even the soil changes from barren sand to rich laterite loam. From the north comes the influence of the Arab world; the south, partly because of the war, has far stronger ties to the West and Christianity. Here, two worlds collide and two governments compete for territory inch by inch; under that ground lies as much as half of Sudan's estimated five billion barrels of oil. In many ways, Abyei is a microcosm for the entire country. As Winter put it, ''The future of Abyei is the future of all Sudan.'' 
 Winter wore black Rockports and brown socks. He carried a nylon briefcase in one hand and a blue plastic shopping bag in the other. Inside it were bug spray, a shaving kit, a change of clothes and ''An Army at Dawn,'' a history of World War II in Africa. As an architect of the failing peace, Winter came to see what might be done to avert the potential slaughter.
 As activists and journalists in recent years focused attention on Darfur, Winter argued, they and the Bush administration have neglected the push for comprehensive peace in the rest of the country. Although both north and south signed the peace accord more than three years ago, little has changed. Without international pressure sufficient to slow the process, both sides were starting to play a very dangerous game of chicken in Abyei. 
 ''I hope you've done some homework in the United States,'' Chol Changoth, a member of the Sudan People's Liberation Movement (S.P.L.M.), which dominates Sudan's south, said as someone handed Winter a sweating bottle of orange Fanta. ''Are the people of the United States taking Abyei into consideration?'' He scanned Winter's face for any flicker of hope. 
 Although, technically, north and south share a unified government, the National Congress Party of the north and the Sudan People's Liberation Movement of the south are mostly at odds. Between them, politics become a zero-sum game. The 2005 peace agreement calls for a nationwide census, which, despite flaws, has finally started. The accord also calls for a 2009 national election, which Winter and others say Khartoum may try to delay. Above all, peace means that in 2011, the south is counting on a referendum on whether or not to stay with the north. 
 The question of Abyei was so contested during negotiations for the Comprehensive Peace Agreement that it got its own protocol, one that the United States -- with Winter on the negotiating team -- agreed to in order to save the peace process as a whole. The U.S. drafted the protocol, pushed both sides to sign it and, according to Winter, then walked away. ''We did a good thing and a bad thing,'' as he explained to the crowd at the airport. ''The good thing is the Abyei Protocol. The bad thing is we went home.'' Now Winter is watching his old adversary, President Omar Hassan al-Bashir, play familiar tricks. ''Bashir knows he's looked the whole international community right in the eyes,'' Winter said. ''He says yes, yes, yes to the protocol, and then he says no. . . . And what happened? Nothing. So he's learned a lesson, and you can see the lesson even in Darfur because the United Nations says a hybrid force should come and he says no, and what happens? Nothing. So it's very, very, very dangerous, this pattern.'' 
 At its core, the fight over Abyei raises the question of whether Sudan will remain a single country and how a fissure might be averted. As Alex de Waal, a longtime observer of Sudanese politics, told me, ''Abyei is the cockpit of Sudan where the two parties are testing each other's readiness to go to war again.'' 
 ON THE SURFACE, two different people, the ethnic Ngok Dinka linked to the south and the Arab Misseriya of the north, vie over who has rights to the land. With the added pressure of desertification, the Arab nomads need the greener pastures of Abyei more than ever to graze and water their cattle. They are also being pushed south by the pressures of commercial farming. ''In this belt north of the 10th parallel, land that used to be common access has been leased out to mechanized farming schemes,'' Douglas H. Johnson, a member of the Abyei Boundaries Commission, said. To settle the problem, after the 2005 agreement Johnson and an international team drew a shared border along the 10th parallel, but the north rejected their solution and, on the ground, there was only mounting tension. With so much to lose, the Misseriya and Dinka were growing more anxious as May loomed ahead. 
 And in this standoff President Bashir has done what he always does: endorsed Arab militias who carry out Darfur-style scorched-earth tactics. In the late 1980s, when Bashir was the general in charge of Abyei, the militias chased the Dinka off their land. Just last year, Bashir called on the militias ''to open their camps and gather the mujahedeen.'' Salva Kiir, the president of south Sudan, said, ''The guns the Misseriya are using are military weapons.'' According to Kiir, who is also first vice president in the somewhat notional united Sudanese government, the militias are supported by Khartoum.
 The similarities between Darfur's attacks and those around Abyei are no coincidence. They betray war's grander pattern in Sudan, the largest country in Africa. As Winter says: ''You have to connect the dots. You connect the dots, you see a pattern. A pattern means intent.'' All of Sudan's wars involve the handiwork of a small group in the center waging campaigns against those who live at the periphery. To hold onto power and resources, the center fights its own edge. Marginalization, Winter said, meant perpetual warfare. ''Unless you really have engaged in Sudan, you don't get to that point of thinking,'' he said.
 Winter got to that point of thinking some time ago. His colleague Susan Rice, a former U.S. assistant secretary of state for African affairs under President Bill Clinton, watched Winter's views evolve. ''I've seen him be an advocate when I was a policy maker, and when I was on the outside, he was somebody on the inside we could trust to do the right thing,'' she told me. ''Roger has been a consistent, passionate, principled advocate at a time when we had reason to doubt that the Bush administration was really engaged in these issues.'' On Sudan, she added, ''people of all political, religious and racial stripes view Roger as the compass's true north.'' In this case, true south is more apt. For Winter's part, he has watched many an American offer ''carrots,'' as he says, to Khartoum. That practice ''can be deadly,'' he told me. ''You go to Khartoum, they treat you very nicely, they're very presentable, they're indefatigably hospitable, but their approach to governance is murderous,'' he said. 
 It's this murderous governance that Winter is determined to end. ''I'm not opposed to engagement,'' he said. ''The problem is the way we're doing this and the atmosphere which surrounds it.'' In Sudan, he argues, ''there's a good guy and a bad guy.'' As he sees it, he sides with the good guys. He doesn't hang out in the middle. ''I guess there's a role for that,'' he said. ''It's just not mine.'' 
 Taking sides can be dangerous, Andrew Natsios, who served as U.S. special envoy to Sudan from 2006 to 2007, argues. ''We don't need rallying cries,'' he said. ''A big advocacy campaign right now could be really destructive to the possibility of peace.''
 Winter argues that the Bush administration's pressure for comprehensive peace in Sudan is flagging, in part because America's wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have hamstrung its ability to call Khartoum on its myriad abuses against its own people. The U.S. government also seems to be moving toward strengthening relations with Khartoum, which Winter vehemently opposes. But Natsios believes that right now, with the likelihood of a tougher American administration taking over in January, there's a critical window to engage Khartoum. ''The north badly wants to normalize relations with the U.S. during the Bush administration,'' he said. Natsios envisions ''a grand deal,'' including an exchange of oil for land in which the north cedes Abyei to the south (as it already is supposed to do under the Abyei Protocol) in exchange for a percentage of southern oil revenue. 
 ''Quite frankly, to make progress in Sudan, you have to engage all parties,'' Jendayi Frazer, assistant secretary of state for African affairs, told me. ''Our vision has been a unified government, which is something Roger himself worked for, so we can't not engage the government.'' Regime change has not been part of American policy in Sudan, and while the United States has kept Khartoum under sanctions, put pressure on it at the United Nations, acquiesced in the referral by the Security Council of Darfur prosecutions to the International Criminal Court (which the Bush administration otherwise opposes) and led several large-scale diplomatic initiatives to push for peace in the region -- not least the initiatives in which Winter played a key role -- Washington has nonetheless always accepted Khartoum as a partner of sorts. According to Frazer, the United States offered as recently as last December to mediate the north-south conflict over Abyei, but the southern government, led by the S.P.L.M., said it preferred to handle the negotiations with Khartoum itself. ''You can't really criticize us for dealing with President Bashir when the S.P.L.M. themselves are saying that's their partner and that's who they want to negotiate on Abyei,'' Frazer told me. 
 Richard Williamson, the American negotiator appointed by President Bush, has come under fire for his talks with Bashir. ''Our president's commitment to the humanitarian crisis in Sudan is deep,'' Williamson said. ''His support for our efforts is unwavering. He looks at me, and I can't come up with a key. Some of my critics have criticized me for engaging. But given the level of suffering, it's worth engaging. It's not enough to criticize. It may make you feel better, but people are still suffering.'' Danforth told me: ''Roger is more principled than I am. He definitely sees engagement as more of a moral issue.'' But there's a practical aspect, too, to negotiation. After all, Danforth points out, the north did sign a peace agreement. ''It has lasted nearly four years,'' he said. ''A lot of lives, I think, have been saved.'' 
 WINTER DUCKED INTO a thatched hut in the front-line village of Todaj, a few miles north of Abyei. On the roof were a wooden cross and book-size solar panels, which were charging a satellite phone. Inside, the air was close. Several days earlier, this entire village -- 150 Dinka families -- fled south to the safety of Abyei on foot. Now only a handful of elders and a chief, Nyol Paduot, his salt-and-pepper hair and beard unkempt, his eyes baggy with lack of sleep, had returned to safeguard their land. 
 Having been run off the land three times -- in 1991, 1997 and 2000 -- the elders knew the lethal pattern by heart. ''We know that when they burn our village, they want the land,'' Paduot said. ''That's why we come back.'' 
 The elders of Todaj refused to be pushed farther south by Arab militias camping nearby or by the government (northern) soldiers who built barracks at the village's edge. Under the peace deal, the soldiers of Sudan's 31st Brigade stationed here were supposed to withdraw from Todaj, but they have not. As Winter drove past the barracks in a silver S.U.V., one shirtless soldier doing laundry stood up and took a long look. The S.U.V. belonged to their rival, the S.P.L.M., for whom Winter was working. Winter passed what looked like a huge white circus tent, which was labeled I.O.M. in U.N. blue, for International Organization for Migration: a way station for displaced people. It stood dusty and empty. The U.N. had judged it too risky to stay in Todaj. 
 ''It's a long war,'' the chief told Winter. ''Peace came, and no one helped us implement it, and it's become a problem.'' He went on: ''I have a question for you who've come from America. In Abyei, we don't know if it's war or peace. When will the intervention come? When the fighting has started again?'' The hut grew quiet. A fly buzzed; a pair of baby goats bleated in the corner. Cooking pots clanged next door. ''All that's happening in Darfur,'' the chief said, ''happened here in Abyei.'' 
 The main differences between Darfur and Abyei were religion and oil. Khartoum's troops hit Todaj because they claimed many people there had left Islam, becoming apostate. They justified their actions as jihad against infidels. But in Darfur, government troops attacked fellow Muslims. ''That surprised us,'' the chief said. Besides religion and oil -- which Darfur does not have -- there was nothing to separate Abyei from Darfur. ''Todaj is very strategic for the 31st Brigade to coordinate all their activities for the oil fields,'' Paduot added. ''They bring their supplies from the oil fields here, and this is where they come to distribute ammunitions.'' 
 He ran his finger north along the white space of a tattered map. According to the boundaries commission's recommendation, this land -- up to the line of latitude at 10 degrees 10 minutes -- belonged to the Dinka, although the Misseriya were free to use it for grazing. The global-positioning-system reading off the satellite phone put Todaj, the last and northernmost Dinka settlement, at 9 degrees 43 minutes, more than 30 miles south inside where the Dinka had the right to be. ''This is our land,'' the chief said. His own village lay in Block Four of an oil concession operated by the Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Company (G.N.P.O.C.) -- pronounced gin-pock. The oil was right under us, Paduot said, but no Dinka he knew -- or Misseriya for that matter -- worked in the oil fields. 
 Suddenly, a group of men in ragtag fatigues arrived outside the mud hut. They sat with their backs against the wall, where they could hear everything going on inside. Sure enough, it was the government forces, and it was time to go. Winter clasped the chief's hand, and then quickly took his leave. 
 Not all of the Dinka were as lucky as those of Todaj. Days earlier, many who had been working as goatherds at Misseriya cattle camps were forced to leave everything behind for good and flee south to the relative safety of Abyei. Because the large white tents near Todaj were too risky to use, about 400 survivors were camped in Abyei, using water from a nearby swamp.
 ''We refused to leave without our goats,'' Ayii Dut Dut, one of the displaced goatherds, told me. Among the herders in the camp, about half a dozen were abducted years earlier, then taken north to work for the Misseriya. But most were there voluntarily as shepherds and sharecroppers after the 1988 famine sent them searching for work. In recent skirmishes between the Arab militias and the southern forces, many Arabs were killed. As a result, when the militias returned to their cattle camps after fighting, they wanted their Dinka workers to leave -- immediately. But the Dinka said they wouldn't go without the goats, which represented all their wealth in the world. 
 So that night, riding camels and horses, Arabs attacked their camp. Most escaped, but not all. After hiding in the nearby bush, Dut said he returned to the deserted camp at dawn to find three children -- ages 5, 5 and 3 -- who had been shot. He buried them and left without his goats, he said as he squatted in the shade of a single acacia tree near 200 other displaced people. 
 If Darfur is a land grab, then Abyei is an oil grab. Last year, an estimated $529 million of oil revenue came from the region, according to the International Crisis Group, an independent, nonprofit political-analysis group. Khartoum has used the south's oil to build the north's infrastructure. A combination of war, sanctions and public outcry forced Western companies to abandon Sudan's oil over the past decade, and China, among others, stepped in. 
 Without knowing what to look for, the signs of oil excavation around Abyei aren't so easy to see. You can drive for hours and see nothing but fishermen searching in ponds for Nile perch and mudfish. The roadside is lined with long brown braids of dried fish for sale. ''They are some of the poorest people in the world,'' Edward Lino, the southern government's chairman for Abyei, told me as we drove through the wasteland. ''They have this rich land that's being robbed from them, and they don't know what to do.'' 
 Suddenly, a series of white pipes with red knobs appeared in a clearing along the telltale hummock covering the pipeline itself, which was built in 2003. Beginning in the 1980s, many of the fishermen were forced to resettle in much the same way the people returning to Todaj were being threatened this year. To survive, they depended on a battery of international aid agencies as oil was pumped out from beneath them. 
 One afternoon, I visited a field office of the Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Company. The company is a consortium in which 40 percent of the investment is Chinese, 30 percent Malaysian, 25 percent Indian and 5 percent Sudanese. International workers in red, green and beige jumpsuits scurried through the waiting room, where a sign read, ''Use the waiting time to ask for forgiveness.'' Outdoors, Chinese workers in red jumpsuits worked alongside Sudanese. The Great Wall Drilling Company was ''rigging up'': preparing to drill in the next few days, a supervisor, Mohamed Idris, said. He sat behind a door that read ''Company Man,'' while soap operas flickered on flat-screen televisions in the air-conditioned dark. The fishermen living outside the facility have no electricity at all.
 THE RELATIONSHIP between the Ngok Dinka and the Arab Misseriya is more complex than it looks at first glance. They share a way of life in what John Ryle of the Rift Valley Institute calls ''an intimate enmity.'' 
 One evening, Winter attended a feast in his honor at the home of the paramount Dinka chief, Kuol Deng Kuol, a towering, soft-spoken man. The large mud greeting room, hung with red-flowered bedsheets, was full of Dinka and Misseriya elders. Winter was eating wild honey and bread when two anxious Misseriya leaders, wearing white turbans, approached him. Each was the head of at least 2,000 Misseriya -- they were the ''cornerstone'' of the Arabs in Abyei -- and none of them wanted war. Conflict would mean their cows could no longer come south into Dinka land, and they would die. Already under pressure from farming and other nomads to the north, they couldn't risk being squeezed out of the south too. ''About this peace, we don't want to lose it,'' Deng Bilial Bachar, a blustery leader, told Winter. ''We're holding it very tightly and very hard.'' 
 Recently, the two elders told Winter, government-backed militias had gathered at the edge of town. They were going to attack Abyei. ''Three days I was talking night and day to make people go back,'' Bachar said. Both the Misseriya Arabs and the Dinka were simply pawns in a larger battle playing out between north and south over politics and oil, he said. If north or south wanted to return to war, let them do it somewhere else. ''We don't want war, 100 percent,'' he said. ''You have to convey this message clearly.''
 Next to Bachar, with clear blue eyes and a deeply creased face, was Shogar Muhammad Mahmud, who had come from his cattle camp next to the village of Todaj. ''The water on that side,'' he said, indicating the north where he'd come from, ''has become so few -- little -- like drought. Just allow our cattle to graze and get water because there's no water in our side. Just allow us to come through.'' The Abyei Protocol safeguarded Misseriya migration routes, but Mahmud didn't know this. Critics like Winter argue that Khartoum manipulates the Misseriya by not explaining that peace protects their rights. ''It is too easy for those who wish to undermine the C.P.A. to exploit the fear on the part of the Misseriya that ceding Abyei to the south would cut them off from access to dry-season grazing,'' Ryle told me, referring to the Comprehensive Peace Agreement. ''And the fear of Ngok Dinka in the S.P.L.M. that they might once more be cheated of the chance for self-determination means that they also are in no mood to compromise.'' 
 The north argues that Abyei isn't simply a matter of maps. Culturally, Abyei has always been part of the Arab north, they say. ''Even during World War II, Abyei was supporting the Middle East by sending cows,'' the chairman of the National Congress Party in Abyei, Zachariah Atem Payin, said. As a Dinka man who supports Khartoum, Payin exemplifies the complexities of identity in Abyei. He was also among Winter's many detractors. ''I've heard he's very difficult, very hard,'' Payin said. ''He's the one who caused all this confusion in Sudan.'' By confusion, he meant war. ''It's because of Roger Winter supporting the S.P.L.M. that they won't listen.'' 
 WINTER GAZED AT the sun-bleached photo and the artificial flowers that marked the grave of his friend, Dr. John Garang, in the southern capital, Juba. The leader of the south's liberation movement, Garang was killed in a helicopter crash three years ago. Many, including Winter, saw his death as an enormous setback to durable peace. Winter and Garang were extremely close. ''He loved to tell jokes, he loved to tell stories,'' Winter said. Tears gathered on his white eyelashes. ''He never lost his focus and basically his focus was a new Sudan, a totally new country, whether it was in one piece or two.'' 
 Later, Winter sat by the Nile drinking a Bell, a Ugandan beer. The moon was heavy and full, bright enough to see the river eddy as it passed. He spied a baby crocodile splash off the bank. ''Look!'' he said gleefully, seeming much more like a boy adventurer than an elder statesman. 
 Winter's new role as an adviser to the southern government set off a political storm in Khartoum. In a cable, the U.S. Embassy took note of what one northern paper said: ''Winter's appointment 'shows that the S.P.L.M. is a farce . . . a movement that suckles the breasts of the U.S.' '' Frazer, the assistant secretary of state for African affairs in the State Department, insisted that Winter's advocacy for the south shouldn't bother people (''It doesn't me,'' she said) because he no longer has any official American role. 
 His activism began when he was in his 20s in Hartford, where he worked for the Salvation Army. He went on to resettle refugees arriving in America from the world's worst conflict zones, beginning with Southeast Asia after the Vietnam War. But it was his experience working with Tutsis displaced from Rwanda -- before the genocide began -- that made him move on to the conflict zones themselves. Soon he was riding on the front lines in Rwanda in 1994 with the Rwandan Patriotic Front led by Paul Kagame. During the genocide, he flew home every few weeks to brief the U.S. government on what he witnessed firsthand. President Clinton's later statements that he had not been fully aware of what was happening caused Winter, he says, to leave the Democratic Party. 
 Winter told the people in Abyei: ''Honestly, the people that have your interests at heart are you, really only you. The Americans can be O.K. now, but next year they may be not so O.K. But it's your place, it's your life, it's your future.'' Now that he's out of the American government, Winter makes no bones about what he is: an advocate. His job is to shout himself hoarse until someone listens to what he's saying about the worsening crisis in Abyei and the failure to do enough about it. ''That's what an advocate does,'' he said. ''No matter how good the government does, you're always goosing them to do better. Otherwise, why does anybody need you?'' 
 Sometimes neutrality is just not the right answer, and on Sudan, he thinks neutrality is practically and morally bankrupt. ''I'm an evangelist,'' he said, only half joking. ''I preach the gospel of Sudan.'' 
 ABYEI BURNED TO the ground when the rains began in May. As Winter predicted, once the Misseriya cattle were safely out of the south, the north attacked the town. The violence began with the kind of small skirmish that had been occurring for months: policemen from the south and soldiers from the north got into a fight a few miles from Todaj. There was a shootout, and when a northern soldier died in the hospital, his colleagues shot up the ward. Within hours, the 31st Brigade was firing mortars and rocket-propelled grenades into the heart of Abyei. The United Nations evacuated most of its nonessential staff by helicopter. Tens of thousands of Dinka fled south. The Arabs took over the town. The ethnic facts that favored Khartoum now existed on the ground. ''Mainly women and children are uprooted again from their houses and are now in open areas under heavy rains with no shelter, food and water,'' the south's president, Salva Kiir, said in a speech late last month. ''This human tragedy is caused unfortunately by Sudan Armed Forces Brigade 31 that is illegally present in Abyei town and against the provisions of the C.P.A.''
 As usual, Winter was close by. He flew in the next day from Juba. He organized the first convoy into town after the attack. ''Some of the buildings and vehicles are still smoking,'' he told me by satellite phone. Then he was caught in a sandstorm. ''I can't see squat and I can't open my eyes,'' he said, as he spat sand through his teeth. ''The U.N. is buttoned up behind barricades again,'' he added. ''There are almost no people.'' Later, Winter sent me photographs: the market's stalls were incinerated. Lines of white ash marked where the walls had been. Hospitals and schools were shelled. The U.N. warehouses were destroyed. Terrified people were still streaming south. The U.N. first estimated that 50,000 people were displaced, but Winter, in the road among them, thought the number looked much higher. 
 ''This didn't have to happen,'' Winter shouted over the wind. 
 Kuol Deng Kuol, the gentle Dinka chief who had held the feast in Winter's honor six weeks earlier, was now destitute and staying in huts with dozens of family members. ''My people are living under trees,'' he said by phone from a camp south of town. The American negotiator, Richard Williamson, flew to the town. ''I've been to Bosnia and Kosovo and I've never seen anything like Abyei,'' he told me. ''At least 95 percent of the homes were destroyed'' -- even those 25 feet from the United Nations base. When U.S.-led talks between north and south over Abyei turned to bickering, Williamson walked out. ''I'm not goingto give any legitimacy of U.S. participation to name-calling,'' he said. The next day, amid reports of troops massing at Abyei, the United Nations Security Council met with both sides, who agreed to international arbitration, as they have many, many times before. ''We need terms of arbitration -- specifics,'' Williamson said. ''If 50,000 people who've had their lives shattered isn't enough for you to take responsibility for your own solution, then the U.S. cannot impose one.'' Disgusted, he told both sides, ''If you think I'm a junkyard dog, wait until January.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: This page: A camp for members of the Dinka tribe outside the town of Abyei, Sudan. Opposite: Roger Winter near Boma
Winter meets a Darfur rebel, Minni Minawi, in Juba, Sudan
 The town of Abyei before it was virtually destroyed by northern military forces in May. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J CARRIER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EASTER SEASON (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (76%); HOMICIDE (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); REFUGEES (70%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (73%) EQUATOR (56%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



375 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: Going Hyper Over Mileage

BYLINE: By AZADEH ENSHA

 BODY:
WITH average gasoline prices hitting $4 a gallon, drivers are increasingly looking for ways to cut fuel costs. Chief among this group are the hypermilers. 
 Hypermilers use a variety of techniques, from the manufacturer-recommended to the illegal, to maximize their mileage. This includes keeping up on vehicle maintenance, especially oil changes and tire pressure; driving at or below the speed limit; and more dangerous tactics like coasting or following closely behind larger vehicles the way Nascar racers draft.
 Wayne Gerdes, a hypermiler, offers tips and techniques on his Web site, Cleanmpg.com, for hypermiling enthusiasts. Many hypermilers boast of doubling a car's estimated fuel economy. In 2005, Mr. Gerdes and four other hypermilers logged 1,397 miles on a single tank of gas in an unmodified Toyota Prius on a road trip. According to his Web site, Mr. Gerdes once averaged 200 miles a gallon in his hybrid Honda Insight. 
 Some hypermilers take part in the M.P.G. Challenge during Hybridfest in Madison, Wis. Last year's top hypermilers scored 60 to 168 miles a gallon.
 ''I do worry about people getting hung up on the extreme techniques though,'' said Eric Powers, the founder of Hybridfest. ''It gives hypermiling a bad name. There are plenty of techniques that even my mom could do. It's interesting how socially acceptable it is to speed, but it's not acceptable to go five miles under the limit. We'll see what happens when we hit $4.50 and $5 gas prices.'' AZADEH ENSHA

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); AUTO RACING (78%); SPEED LIMITS (78%); NASCAR RACING (73%); TIRES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (53%) WISCONSIN, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



376 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: Tapped out

BYLINE: By LISA MARGONELLI. 
Lisa Margonelli is an Irvine fellow at the New America Foundation and the author of ''Oil on the Brain: Petroleum's Long Strange Trip to Your Tank.''

 BODY:
BOTTLEMANIA 
 How Water Went on Sale and Why We Bought It. 
 By Elizabeth Royte. 
 248 pp. Bloomsbury. $24.99. 
 To paraphrase an old axiom: You don't buy water, you only rent it. So why did Americans spend nearly $11 billion on bottled water in 2006, when we could have guzzled tap water at up to about one ten-thousandth the cost? The facile answer is marketing, marketing and more marketing, but Elizabeth Royte goes much deeper into the drink in ''Bottlemania: How Water Went on Sale and Why We Bought It,'' streaming trends cultural, economic, political and hydrological into an engaging investigation of an unexpectedly murky substance. Partway through her undoctrinaire book, Royte, a lifelong fan of tap water, refills her old plastic water bottle, reflecting that ''what once seemed so simple and natural, a drink of water, is neither. All my preconceptions about this most basic of beverages have been queered.'' And by the end of the book she will have discarded the old plastic bottle too, but not the tap. 
 ''Bottlemania'' is an easy-to-swallow survey of the subject from verdant springs in the Maine woods to tap water treatment plants in Kansas City; from the grand specter of worldwide water wars, to the microscopic crustaceans called copepods, whose presence in New York's tap water inspired a debate by Talmudic scholars about whether the critters violated dietary laws, and whether filtering water on the Sabbath constituted work. (Verdict: no and no.) Water is a topic that lends itself to tour-de-force treatment (the book ''Cadillac Desert'' and the movie ''Chinatown'' come to mind), as well as righteous indictments and dire predictions (''Thirst: Fighting the Corporate Theft of Our Water,'' ''When the Rivers Run Dry: Water -- The Defining Crisis of the Twenty-First Century''). Where others are bold, ''Bottlemania'' is subversive, and after you read it you will sip warily from your water bottle (whether purchased or tap, plastic or not), as freaked out by your own role in today's insidious water wars as by Royte's recommended ecologically responsible drink: ''Toilet to tap.'' 
 Eww. Sorry. Let's talk about those evil marketers. In 1987, Americans drank only 5.7 gallons of bottled water per person per year, but the cumulative impact of ad campaigns and the vision of Madonna fellating a bottle of Evian in ''Truth or Dare'' more than doubled consumption by 1997. In 2000 the chief executive of Quaker Oats bragged to analysts that ''the biggest enemy is tap water.'' By 2005, the enemy had become the consumer's bladder; and in 2006, Pepsi, which owns Aquafina, spent $20 million suggesting that Americans ''drink more water.'' That year we drank 27.6 gallons each at a rate of about a billion bottles a week.
 But marketing swings both ways. As quickly as bottled water became a symbol of healthy hyperindividualism -- sort of an iPod for your kidneys -- a backlash turned it into the devil's drink. In 2006, the National Coalition of American Nuns came out against bottled water for the moral reason that life's essential resource should not be privatized. New numbers surfaced: each year the bottles themselves require 17 million barrels of oil to manufacture, and, one expert tells Royte, ''the total energy required for every bottle's production, transport and disposal is equivalent, on average, to filling that bottle a quarter of the way with oil.'' Mayors from San Francisco to New York suddenly became aware of the new symbolism of bottled water as a waste of taxpayer money, a diss of local tap water and a threat to the environment. Some canceled their city's bottled water contracts. Chicago began taxing the stuff. And celebrities -- among them Matt Damon and ... Madonna -- started backing a dazzling array of water charities in support of domestic tap and African water supplies, associating themselves with the magical ur-brand of ''pure water'' just as marketers and Madonna did in the early '90s. 
 Royte asks, perceptively, if the pro-bottle and anti-bottle movements aren't cut from the same plastic: ''Is it fashion or is it a rising awareness of the bottle's environmental toll that's driving the backlash? I'm starting to think they're the same thing.'' To Royte, the author of ''Garbage Land,'' righteousness requires a greater commitment.
 She finds it in Fryeburg, Me., a town of 3,000 that is trying to stop Nestle's Poland Spring from sucking 168 million gallons of water a year out of the pristine aquifer buried under its piney woods. As Royte arrives the town is in an uproar, with neighbor pitted against neighbor and rumors of secret planning-board meetings and of dummy corporations. Fryeburg is a ''perfect example of water's shift from a public good to an economic force,'' she observes. The locals are more blunt: ''This is what a water war looks like.'' Fryeburg bears the burden of living at the other end of the giant green Poland Spring pipe. Residents of nearby Hiram count 92 water tankers rolling through their town in one typical 24-hour period; they feel themselves under siege precisely because their watershed is clean, while 40 percent of the country's rivers and streams are too polluted for swimming or fishing, let alone drinking. Fryeburg residents try to repel the water company. They demand tests, throw a Boston Tea Party by dumping Poland Spring in a local pond, take the issue to Maine's Supreme Judicial Court and hold a town meeting straight out of Norman Rockwell. Here I wish Royte had devoted more energy to the narrative. The people of Fryeburg and their complaints feel tentative -- a sketch where a portrait could have been. And although her writing always flows, I sometimes wished for something less utilitarian.
 That comes, unexpectedly, as Royte stands at the edge of the Ashokan Reservoir in upstate New York. ''Ignoring the bluish mountains that form its backdrop and the phalanx of security guards in our foreground,'' she gazes ''down onto the spillway which curves and drops like a wedding cake, in four tiers, before sending its excess through a granite passage,'' supplying 1.2 billion gallons a day through 300 miles of tunnels and aqueducts and 6,200 miles of distribution mains. There once was grandeur in public works, and Royte captures the mythic heroism that inspired the politicians and engineers to build great reservoirs more than a century ago. Their outsize civic largesse makes our current culture of single-serving bottles feel decidedly crummy. But returning to public water's golden age, if it's possible, will not come cheap. Royte says the country needs to invest $390 billion in our failing water infrastructure by 2020.
 By the time I finished ''Bottlemania'' I thought twice about drinking any water. Among the risks: arsenic, gasoline additives, 82 different pharmaceuticals, fertilizer runoff sufficient to raise nitrate levels so that Iowa communities issue ''blue baby'' alerts. And in 42 states, Royte notes, ''people drink tap water that contains at least 10 different pollutants on the same day.'' The privatization of pristine water is part of a larger story, a tragic failure to steward our shared destiny. And if you think buying water will protect you, Royte points out that it too is loosely regulated. And there is more -- the dangers of pipes and of plastic bottles, the hazards of filters, and yes, that ''toilet to tap'' issue. But there is slim comfort: Royte says we don't really need to drink eight glasses of water a day. Drink when you're thirsty, an expert says. That's refreshing. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM BERRY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.BR7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (89%); BOTTLED WATER (89%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); WATER RIGHTS (87%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); WATER CONSUMPTION (78%); TRENDS (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); INDICTMENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%); WATER QUALITY (51%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%); MISSOURI, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Bottlemania (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



377 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Where the Wild Things Came From

BYLINE: By LAURA MILLER. 
Laura Miller is a staff writer for Salon and the author of ''The Magician's Book: A Skeptic's Adventures in Narnia,'' which will be published in December.

 BODY:
MINDERS OF MAKE-BELIEVE 
 Idealists, Entrepreneurs, and the Shaping of American Children's Literature. 
 By Leonard S. Marcus. 
 402 pp. Houghton Mifflin Company. $28. 
 When my second-grade teacher was growing up during the Great Depression, she discovered what would become her favorite book at the Cleveland Heights Public Library. Unfortunately, by the time she'd finished reading ''The Hobbit'' and persuaded her parents to buy her a copy, they couldn't find it in the bookstore. Undeterred, she checked out the library's copy over and over again, determined to make one of her own by pecking out the entire text with two fingers on the family's manual typewriter. How many authors who write for adults can boast of having a reader so utterly devoted to their work? 
 Leonard Marcus's ''Minders of Make-Believe: Idealists, Entrepreneurs, and the Shaping of American Children's Literature'' is the story of the apparatus that conjured such readers into existence: the children's librarian who chose to order ''The Hobbit''; the publisher (Houghton Mifflin, Marcus's own) who brought it to market, the stores that were out of stock (possibly because of paper shortages). He even has a few words for the parents who, in the mid-20th century, increasingly saw books as an investment in their children's future. What probably strikes many people as the most fascinating aspect of the history of children's literature in America -- the children, and the literature itself -- takes a back seat to editors and reviewers, printers and magazines, libraries and bookstores.
 Studies of books for young people are a recent phenomenon. ''Children's books,'' Marcus writes, ''may well have mattered so little to historians of past generations precisely because the books mattered so much to children. With their place firmly fixed in the foreground of young people's intimate lives, few scholars thought to look further or to ask what the books might possibly mean as commercial or cultural artifacts, much less as works of literature and art.'' ''Minders of Make-Believe'' primarily views them as commodities -- ones that went from a trifling sideline to a $3.4 billion industry and have on occasion become the focus of fierce cultural battles.
 Marcus orders his account chronologically -- from primers to Potter, so to speak -- beginning with the first children's book published in the colonies, ''The New-England Primer'' (1689) and concluding with J. K. Rowling's record-breaking series, the only books of any kind to have their release dates celebrated at midnight festivals nationwide. No doubt this structure is meant to emphasize how much children's book publishing has changed in the past 320 years, but in truth, the industry has been peppered with the same kinds of minor crises that have characterized adult trade publishing over the decades. Budgets are cut in lean years and fattened during booms. Outrage flares when a publisher fires a revered editor in a ''spectacular act of administrative shortsightedness'' and then the editor is hired a month or so later by someone else. Authors grumble about their contracts. Experts worry about the degradation of the public's taste and the distractions of other media. And someone is always around to reminisce about how much more noble and idealistic the business was 30 or 40 years ago.
 One thing that did distinguish children's publishing in the early 20th century, however, was the predominance of women in the industry, as editors, critics and librarians. The first editorial division devoted exclusively to children's books, the Department of Books for Boys and Girls, established by Macmillan in 1919, was headed up by Louise Seaman, a former schoolteacher and graduate of Vassar. Like teaching and missionary work, Marcus notes, working with children's books was considered one of the '''mothering' professions'' to which women were supposed to be uniquely suited. Once ''Minders of Make-Believe'' gets to the period after World War I, it's taken over by a procession of formidable grandes dames, each armed with ''a Seven Sisters degree and the well-honed social skills that implied.'' These were among the first women to attain positions of significance in the men's club of book publishing.
 Despite the relative uniformity of their backgrounds, the doyennes of the children's book world did feud on occasion. One major divide lay between children's librarians, epitomized by the daunting Anne Carroll Moore, the New York Public Library's first children's director, and progressive educators, led by Lucy Sprague Mitchell, who ran the experimental Greenwich Village school now known as Bank Street. The librarians endorsed ''timeless'' fairy tales and folklore as the gold standard in children's fiction, while Mitchell and her camp advocated contemporary stories in settings familiar to young readers. ''Little Red Riding Hood,'' Mitchell protested, was ''brutal,'' ''Cinderella'' was ''sentimental,'' and far too many of the traditional tales were filled with ''the strange, the bizarre, the unreal.'' Virginia Haviland of the Library of Congress referred to the disagreement as the ''controversy raging over 'milk bottles' versus 'Grimm' for the preschool child.''
 In the picture book world, a schism separated the champions of the ''book beautiful'' from the producers of cheap and cheerful items like the Little Golden Books series, which tended to be sold in five-and-dime stores to the stressed-out parents of whining kids. The quality of the paper, printing and binding in children's books was a particular obsession for librarians and high-minded booksellers and editors, to the degree that these worthies often seemed to lose track of the books' intended audience. Marcus writes of an editor at Viking during the inflation-straitened 1970s, who, ''in fear and trembling,'' was obliged to ask Robert McCloskey if he would permit the reprinting of ''Make Way for Ducklings'' without a dust jacket. McCloskey consented, though the experience ''soured'' him. Anyone who's ever seen a 4-year-old handle a book will wonder why it had a dust jacket to begin with.
 ibraries and librarians were perhaps the mightiest force in the children's book world until the cutbacks of the 1970s and a boom in parental book-buying during the 1980s knocked them from their throne. In their heyday, children's librarians imperiously banished series fiction (like the Tom Swift and Rover Boys books and, later on, Nancy Drew) from many collections, as well as the Little Golden Books -- some of which number among my own childhood favorites. The prejudice against series, the most popular of which were formulaic adventure stories churned out by the Stratemeyer Syndicate, was so virulent that Laura Ingalls Wilder's autobiographical novels about her pioneer childhood were repeatedly shut out of librarian-administered awards competitions like the Newbery Medal, merely because they seemed series-ish. (Eventually, the American Library Association created a lifetime achievement award in Wilder's name and presented her with the first one in 1954.)
 Although the titans of the genre, from Wilder and Dr. Seuss to E. B. White and Maurice Sendak, make brief appearances in ''Minders of Make-Believe,'' this is finally a publishing history, the sort of book whose typical event might be characterized as ''And then she went to Scribner. ...'' Marcus, a charming and nimble writer, makes a valiant effort to keep things interesting, but the editorial shake-ups and new printing technologies will be of interest primarily to historians and people in the industry. It's the editor's lot, alas, to subsist on reflected glory. The most interesting thing about even the most esteemed individuals that Marcus covers are the authors they discovered and the books they published, and there's not quite enough about either in ''Minders of Make-Believe.'' The effect is a little like hanging around at a perfectly nice party while there's a terrific one going on just down the hall.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A review on June 15 about ''Minders of Make-Believe: Idealists, Entrepreneurs, and the Shaping of American Children's Literature,'' by Leonard S. Marcus, referred incorrectly to Laura Ingalls Wilder's autobiographical novels. Though none ever won a Newbery Medal, several were named Newbery Honor books; they were not ''repeatedly shut out'' of Newbery competitions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY HORACE BRISTOL/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); WRITERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LITERATURE (78%); LIBRARIES (77%); PUBLISHING (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (72%); LIBRARIANS (72%); BOOKSTORES (72%); HISTORY (69%)

COMPANY: HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (93%); CHILDREN'S BOOKS & TOYS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%)

PERSON: J K ROWLING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (68%)

TITLE: Minders of Make-Believe (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



378 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1712 words

HEADLINE: A YEAR RESHAPES HAMAS AND GAZA

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER; Taghreed el-Khodary contributed reporting.

DATELINE: GAZA 

 BODY:
Cursing God in public here -- a fairly common event in this benighted and besieged strip of Palestinian land -- can now lead to prison. So can kissing in public. A judge ruled last week that a bank could not collect its contracted interest on a 10-year-old loan because Islam forbids charging interest.
 One year ago, gunmen from Hamas, an Islamist anti-Israel group, took over Gaza, shooting some of their more secular Fatah rivals in the knees and tossing one off a building. Israel and the West imposed a blockade, hoping to squeeze the new rulers from power. Yet today Hamas has spread its authority across all aspects of life, including the judiciary. It is fully in charge. Gazans have not, as Israel and the United States hoped, risen up against it. 
 ''The Palestinian criminal code says there should be no improper behavior in the streets,'' the new chief justice, Abed al-Raouf Halabi, explained in an interview, pulling the code book from his breast pocket. 
 ''It is up to judges to interpret what that means,'' he said. ''For us that means no cursing, no drinking and no kissing in public. In the past these things were ignored.''
 Gaza has always been poor and pious, distinct from the more secular and better off West Bank. But a year of Hamas rule has made it more so. The notion of Gaza as an enduringly separate entity is solidifying, making it less likely that Palestinians might agree even among themselves on peace with Israel. 
 Compared with a year ago here in Gaza, more women are covered, more men are bearded, Internet sites are filtered and non-Hamas public gatherings are largely banned. With the Israeli closure greatly reducing the supply of fuel, spare parts and other vital goods, less sewage is treated and more fish are contaminated. Gazans feel trapped and helpless.
 But assessing exactly how bad it is -- how angry or loyal people feel, how effective or cruel the closure has been, how truly impoverished Gaza has become -- is a delicate and politically fraught activity as three recent days of reporting here and dozens of interviews showed.
 Those who reject Israel's policy as evidence of its ill will make it sound like Gaza has turned into Somalia. It has not. At the same time, those who consider it their role to defend Israel in all it does make it sound as if the 70 truckloads of goods that Israel permits in daily have prevented any real suffering. They have not.
 Even more politically complicated is the question of how the closure has affected Hamas's authority and popularity. Many in the West and Israel would very much like to believe Hamas is in trouble. And it is easy to find people here who hate the government and its black-clad police, even among some who voted for Hamas in the January 2006 elections that gave it a majority in the Palestinian legislature and led to 18 months of tense power sharing before the takeover.
 But those in Israel who watch most closely -- Arabic speaking security officials -- say that while the closure is pressing Hamas, it is not jeopardizing it.
 ''Gaza is totally under Hamas's control,'' said one of three such major officials, all of whom agreed to speak only if identified in this vague manner, and all of whose assessments were the same.
 ''What happened in Gaza a year ago was not really a coup,'' a second official said. ''Hamas's takeover was a kind of natural process. Hamas was so strong, so deeply rooted in Palestinian society through its activities in the economy, education, culture and health care, and Fatah was so weak, so corrupt, that the takeover was like wind blowing over a moth-infested structure.'' 
 For months before the takeover, life in Gaza, with its 1.5 million inhabitants, was deeply insecure as Fatah and Hamas gunmen fought for control of the streets and institutions. Hamas had a parliamentary majority but Fatah, through the presidency of Mahmoud Abbas, still officially controlled the security apparatuses and ministries.
 Now, even many of those who detest Hamas say that security has returned to daily life as a result of its takeover.
 ''Hamas is strong and brutal but very good at governing,'' observed Eyad Serraj, a British-trained psychiatrist who runs a group of mental health clinics and is a secular opponent of Hamas. ''They are handing out coupons for gas. They have gotten people to pay for car registration. They are getting people to pay their electricity bills after years of everyone refusing to. The city and the hospitals are cleaner than in many years.''
 While the West Bank-based government of President Abbas bars its nearly 80,000 employees from showing up at work in Gaza to protest the takeover, it continues to pay their salaries here. With no work and a steady wage, there is a once-a-month rush on the A.T.M.'s and a fair amount of disposable income spent in handsome coffee shops surrounded by Poinciana trees now in bloom. New restaurants have opened recently to take advantage of this phenomenon.
 The relative scarcity of goods makes it both harder and easier for Hamas to maintain control. It is harder because the basic role of government, to provide for its people, is a challenge. It is easier, however, because what little comes through is inevitably channeled through Hamas, which collects a tax on it. 
 Many of the goods in Gaza now come through smuggler tunnels from the Egyptian Sinai. There are scores of such tunnels and while the Israeli and American authorities have complained that the tunnels provide a pathway for arms, their more central role is for computers, cigarettes, gasoline and clothing. Hamas taxes everything that comes through. 
 At a Gaza City clothing store for women and girls, the owner, Wael, 31, who considered it unsafe to give his last name, said that while he used to get his goods from Israel and Turkey, now everything in his shop comes from Egypt in flour sacks smuggled in the tunnels. The markup on a bundle of $5,000 worth of goods is $3,000, he said, some of it for the smuggler, some of it for taxes to Hamas.
 ''Everything that has happened here has been a terrible mistake,'' he says of the election victory and subsequent takeover. ''It is a mistake for Islamists to get into power. But what can we do? Hamas is even stronger than a year ago. They can take me and put me away whenever they want.''
 That is apparently what happened to Mohamed Zughbur, a Fatah supporter who was taken from his home two months ago by Hamas forces, imprisoned and tortured and accused of collaboration with Israel, according to Moustafa Ibrahim, a researcher for the Palestinian Independent Commission for Citizens' Rights.
 He said that when his organization complained to the Hamas authorities, they pointed to the United States and the Guantanamo Bay prison; a collaborator, they said, can not be treated with kid gloves. He and other advocates say that Gaza was not exactly a model of individual liberty when Fatah was in power, but the changes of the past year are real and likely to get worse.
 While few dispute that Hamas has changed Gaza, a more complicated question is whether ruling Gaza has changed Hamas. Many in the movement and even outside it say that it is less ideological than it was at its founding or even a year ago. 
 Whereas Hamas says it will never recognize Israel, its leaders say that if Israel returned to the 1967 borders, granted a Palestinian state in Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem and dealt with the rights of refugees, Hamas would declare a long-term truce. This is not that different from what the rest of the Arab world says or the Fatah position in peace talks with Israel. 
 Jawad Tibi, a health minister under the Fatah government and a Fatah advocate in the southern Gaza town of Khan Yunis, is angry at Hamas. Still, he said, ''Hamas is talking about a 30-year truce which is no different really from what we want. Hamas is Fatah with beards.''
 Sayed Abu Musameh is one of the founders of Hamas and now a member of the legislature. One of the old guard moderates, he is also on the board of Hamas's first research organization just opening here. It is called Beit al Hikma, the House of Wisdom, and seeks to build bridges with the West.
 ''We are not seeking all of Palestine, only the '67 borders,'' he said. ''Then there would be a truce for a very long period to pave the way for the next generation to resolve the issues we are paralyzed to resolve.''
 He added that Hamas's rocket attacks on southern Israeli communities are a mistake and that the group's links to Iran are out of necessity, not desire. He said that while the top Hamas leadership did not agree on these last two points, he was not the only advocate to believe them and more would do so if there were encouragement.
 Americans who have visited the top Hamas leader in Syria, Khaled Meshal, including former President Jimmy Carter and Henry Siegman of the U.S./Middle East Project, say a real change is under way, especially regarding the group's willingness to live next to Israel. So far, few American or Israeli officials have taken their assertion seriously.
 Indeed, Israel's security officials who seem realistic about Hamas's control in Gaza dismiss the idea that Hamas has changed in any fundamental way worth Israel's time. They see the talk of a truce as tactical, not strategic, especially given the toxic words of its leaders and media and the continuing rocket and mortar attacks on Israel. 
 As a result, Gaza seems set to continue as is for some time -- isolated, polluted, unhappy, days filled with waiting on line for provisions, but not explosive. 
 Noha Abu Ramadan, an office manager, typifies Hamas's supporters. Covered in Muslim modesty, she efficiently works a telephone, fax machine and cellphone while greeting a pair of visitors. 
 ''Isn't it nice to have such light traffic?'' she joked about the lack of fuel. ''It keeps the accident rate down.'' Asked her view on how things were going, she grew more serious. 
 ''Israel is trying to pressure us to make us forget that the real problem is the occupation,'' she said. ''Hamas was elected like any government and never given the chance to govern. Life is hard here but it has never exactly been perfect. We can take it. The Koran teaches that in the end we will be victorious.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Palestinians stood in line to fill gas canisters in Rafah, on the Gaza Strip. An Israeli blockade has reduced supplies in the territory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABID KATIB/GETTY IMAGES)(A12)
The new chief justice, Abed al-Raouf Halabi, says the criminal code calls for ''no improper behavior'' like kissing in public.
 Members of the Hamas Naval Police patrol the Port of Gaza in Gaza City. Some credit Hamas with improving security. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NAAMAN OMAR/RAPPORT, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (88%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); AL FATAH (78%); RELIGION (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); JUDGES (77%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOMALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



379 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: In a Year Off the Beaten Path, A New Direction for Life

BYLINE: By LAUREN CLARK; As told to PATRICIA R. OLSEN. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
AT the end of my junior year in high school in Maryland, I realized I wasn't ready to apply to college or take the SAT. I wanted to postpone the whole application process and focus on my studies during senior year. A friend suggested a gap year -- a year to pursue other interests -- after high school.
 It sounded perfect. Not only could I get what I wanted out of my senior year, I could also try something that I was interested in before attending college. I had no idea how much the experience would mean for my future. 
 In the fall of my senior year, I contacted the Center for Interim Programs, a company that arranges gap-year programs for students. I knew I wanted to go to a country where I hadn't been before, and I designed a program with its help. I spent the first half of that year helping villagers in Ghana and the second half studying art history in Italy. My four months in Ghana turned out to be a defining experience. It introduced me to the field of international development. 
 I lived with a family in Homabenasi, a rural village, and taught English and math to middle-school students. I also helped the community with a project. First, I met with the elders and people from the local government to find out what they needed most. We decided on a library for the middle school. Then I wrote letters to friends and family back in the United States and raised $2,500 to buy the materials and the tools -- everything from cement mix to nails, corrugated tin and window panes.
 Along with the other two students working on the project, I organized the villagers and helped to build and furnish the library. I also bought books with some of the money. 
 When we were done, we instituted a library council, composed of teachers and elders and other respected people in the village, to manage the library after we left. A radio news announcer attended the grand-opening ceremony along with representatives from neighboring school districts. As a token of their appreciation, the villagers gave us traditional garments appropriate for a king and queen of the village. I realized at that ceremony how much the library would mean to the community's education.
 That experience was the biggest challenge I'd ever had -- emotionally, intellectually and physically, but it was also the most rewarding.
 After Ghana, I went home for a month and then studied art history in Venice for three months. I was glad for the opportunity, but art history was more an avocation. I wasn't drawn to it the way I was to the work in Ghana.
 When I returned to the United States, I knew I wanted to pursue international development as a career. I enrolled at Tufts University for a B.A. in economics and international relations, with a minor in Africa in the New World. I'm sure my essay about what I did in Ghana helped me get in, because the dean of admissions wrote me a personal letter in response and remembered me at a welcome reception for new students.
 I liked Ghana so much that I returned to Africa and studied in Cameroon during the spring semester of my junior year. I stayed there for the summer to work for a local nonprofit organization on a water distribution project. For three months, I researched sites for hand-pumps and wells to be built in villages that have no access to potable water.
 When I graduated in 2006 I obtained an internship at FINCA International, a nonprofit organization in the microfinance field. FINCA wanted someone who had worked in Africa and who spoke French, which I do. I know that the people who interviewed me for the internship and for my later job at MicroVest Capital Management, recognized the value of my gap-year experience. For a career in international development, time in the field is priceless. 
 I want to make a difference and improve the lives of people in impoverished countries around the world. The microfinance industry is the most sustainable pathway to productive international development because it's not dependent on philanthropy. Like other companies in microfinance, MicroVest gives loans to companies that fund poor people who want to start a business. Then those people pay the money back, and the companies repay MicroVest. Thus, the capital is recycled if the funding is done commercially.
 I tell friends who want to work in development finance that a communications position is a great way for someone without an M.B.A. to get a foot in the door. 
 At MicroVest, I worked on our annual report, on brochures, and on other external marketing. I also managed the Web site and designed presentations for conferences. 
 FAMILY friends were afraid that I would never go to college and get a good job if I chose a gap year. But I knew I was committed. Now I'm interested in the financial side of global development, and I plan to go to business school and get my M.B.A. Recently, I accepted a job offer to return to the field because I feel that it's critical to advancing my career. I am moving to India this month to work for a microfinance consulting company. 
 It's good to have a plan, but if something extraordinary comes your way, you should go for it. As I did with a gap year. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lauren Clark, 25, in Bethesda, Md. After high school, she worked with villagers in Ghana.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL T. POWERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ART HISTORY (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%)

COMPANY: OFF THE BEATEN PATH LLC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (93%) GHANA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



380 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Highly Taxed and Fed Up, Rebels Won't Just Eat Cake

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER. 
E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

DATELINE: GREENBURGH 

 BODY:
 THE revolution has begun.
 On June 2 -- remember that date; you may someday celebrate it with fireworks and barbecues -- 70 sons and daughters of Westchester gathered in Town Hall here to overthrow the county government. 
 These Minutemen wannabes were not violent sorts, broke no laws we know of. The most aggressive thing they did was come up with a funny name for a Web site they plan to create: Wastechester.org.
 But make no bones about it: They did vigorously and harmoniously call for the abolition of county government. One man in the crowd even shouted like Peter Finch in ''Network'': ''We can't take it anymore!'' Others denounced the county government as extravagant, duplicative and riddled with patronage and boondoggles. 
 ''Two hundred and thirty years ago, the country went to war over taxation without representation,'' declared Sherwood Chorost, a former trustee of Tarrytown. ''Now the phrase is overtaxation with overrepresentation.''
 The Patrick Henrys or Vladimir Lenins or Robespierres -- choose your revolution -- were Paul Feiner, the idea-generating supervisor of Greenburgh, and Joan Gronowski, a freshman councilwoman from Yonkers. They informed the crowd of middle-aged and older people, including some of Westchester's most seasoned gadflies, that the county government costs almost $1.8 billion a year, mostly paid by homeowners. 
 Many taxpayers scarcely know what the government does, and others would not be surprised to learn that many functions could be transplanted to state and municipal governments that already perform similar functions -- like maintaining parks and dispensing welfare. The result of all that payroll padding, said several speakers, is that Westchester residents increasingly can't afford taxes on their homes.
 The insurgents' case has been bolstered by recent disclosures that some members of the 17-member County Board of Legislators have spent taxpayer dollars on flights and hotels for conferences in getaways like Hawaii, on whopping cellphone bills and even on software for Hollywood scriptwriting and drawing Japanese cartoons. Mr. Feiner recalled that when he was a legislator two decades ago, the Legislature did not have a single aide; now it has 40, and one earns $150,000.
 The county bureaucracy does do some essentials. It runs a regional airport that accommodates flights to Chicago and Orlando, Fla., a bus system for 55,000 daily riders, 50 parks, a jail, a forensics unit needed by local police departments, academies to train police officers and firefighters and a social services program that funnels temporary payments to distressed families. Seventy-five percent of the county's spending is on matters required by the state or federal government.
 But people at this Boston Tea Party argued that necessary functions have encrusted themselves with layers of commissioners and deputy commissioners whose jobs could be done by state bureaucrats. Does Westchester need a human rights commission when other governments already have them? Does it need a consumer protection agency when the state has one? Does it need a bomb squad to answer crank calls by students trying to get out of exams? For that matter, the rebels asked, how necessary is County Executive Andrew Spano, or at least, how necessary is it that he travel to China saying he is trying to attract business?
 ''I find that the more you give anybody in government, the more they want,'' Councilwoman Gronowski told the crowd. ''Give 'em a car and they want a cellphone. They get used to that and develop a sense of entitlement.''
 When told of the rebels' demands, Susan Tolchin, Mr. Spano's chief adviser, unsheathed a dagger of her own. She wondered if Mr. Feiner was leading the abolition bandwagon to ''deflect the fact that he's had to raise taxes in Greenburgh by 21 percent.''
 Asked about that, Mr. Feiner retorted that he has been advocating abolition of county government since 1990 and that he increased taxes only after two years of zero increases.
 Taxes, Ms. Tolchin insisted, were at the root of the grievances, but county taxes, she said, account for only 20 percent of a homeowner's bill, while school taxes exceed 60 percent. And the county, she argued, has no choice but to perform required functions like paying 50 percent of the Medicaid bill -- a tab of $195 million annually.
 At the June 2 meeting, speakers extolled Connecticut for ending county government in 1960 and Massachusetts for giving county governments the option to abolish themselves, which many did in the 1990s. Two of the eight committees the rebels formed will study how abolition in those states has worked out. Other committees will look into what state legislation would be required for abolition and develop ways to market and finance the overthrow campaign.
 Those who study revolutions might point out that revolutionary committees have a way of becoming longstanding and lethal. The French Revolution's Committee of Public Safety ordered thousands of executions by guillotine. 
 And there was a shrewd warning by Dennis Robertson, a former Yonkers councilman, about a backlash from politicians who would lose their jobs.
 ''If they see this is a revolution, what are they going to do?'' he asked.
 Ultimately, abolition might turn out to be a rallying cry for something a good deal less drastic -- cuts in county spending -- a theory Mr. Feiner concedes.
 ''When times are good and the economy is good and people can afford living here, if you have an extra layer of government, nobody's paying attention,'' Mr. Feiner said. ''But now people tell me they can't afford their taxes, so our goal is to eliminate layers of government fat.''
 E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SOUNDING OFF: Paul Feiner and Councilwoman Joan Gronowski. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); FORENSICS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); HOMEOWNERS (69%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); AIRPORTS (61%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (60%); POLICE FORCES (60%); DRAMA LITERATURE (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



381 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1848 words

HEADLINE: Gay Couples Find Marriage Is a Mixed Bag

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK; Katie Zezima contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Four years after Massachusetts became the first state to allow gay couples to marry, there have been blissful unions, painful divorces and everything in between. 
 Some same-sex couples say being married has made a big difference, and some say it has made no difference at all. There are devoted couples who have decided marriage is not for them, couples whose lawyers or accountants advised them against marrying, and couples in which one partner wants to marry but the other does not. 
 But as same-sex marriage begins in California, Massachusetts's experience may offer hints of what is to come. For example, after an initial euphoric rush to the altar, the number of gay weddings here fell sharply and has declined each year since. Of the more than 10,500 same-sex couples married here since May 17, 2004, 6,121 wed in the first six months. There were 2,060 weddings in 2005; 1,442 in 2006; and 867 in the first eight months of 2007, the most recent data show. 
 Gay men and lesbians say the early wave of weddings reflected ''pent-up demand'' from longstanding couples. The subsequent numbers indicate that ''marriage isn't for everybody,'' said Mary L. Bonauto, a lawyer who argued the case that led to same-sex marriage being legalized here. And, Ms. Bonauto said, ''there's only so many gay people in Massachusetts.'' 
 The Census Bureau recorded 23,655 same-sex households in Massachusetts in 2006.
 Nearly two-thirds of the weddings have been lesbian marriages, including one between two women named Melissa McCarthy. And while nearly half of straight people marrying are under 30, more same-sex married couples of both sexes are older -- nearly a third are in their 40s. 
 Lawyers say same-sex couples are more likely to draw up prenuptial agreements than straight couples are.
 For some, the marriage learning curve is steep. 
 ''It's been a mixed bag,'' said Jacob Venter, a 44-year-old child psychiatrist who married Billy Boney, a 36-year-old hairdresser, a month after it became legal to do so. They have disagreements over money, the in-laws and whether to adopt children or have their own. 
 ''Nothing turns out the way you imagine,'' Mr. Venter said. ''There are no role models for gay marriage.''
 Unlike California, Massachusetts has a residency requirement for marriage. Some couples have moved here to marry, including Lisa Forest and Ann Marie Willer, who came from Texas.
 ''Without having that legal recognition, we felt very vulnerable,'' Ms. Forest said. ''We wanted the psychological security of knowing that we're protected if one of us were to become sick, that we would be able to transfer our assets, at least on the state level, without incurring taxes, that we'll be able to stay together if we're old and not able to care for ourselves.''
 For many, the biggest advantages are less quantifiable. 
 ''I feel totally different inside my skin,'' said Linda Bailey-Davies, 62, who married her longtime partner, Gloria Bailey-Davies, 67. With marriage, she said, ''I felt legitimate in the world.''
 Heather and Adrienne Walker believe people better understand the seriousness of their relationship, recognition that is especially valuable to them as mothers of four children in suburban Natick. 
 ''Before marriage was legal, if I called Adrienne my wife, people would say 'Your what?' '' Heather Walker said. ''But if you say partner, they're thinking business partner. The knowledge that we are legally married, that they can't play a semantics game, is very freeing. There's none of that, 'but we really need to talk to the actual parents.' ''
 Still, some couples find few significant advantages. Many employers offered health insurance to domestic partners. State taxes can be higher for some couples, and the lack of federal recognition of gay marriage makes lucrative benefits -- Social Security, federal tax breaks -- off limits. 
 ''I can't say that anything has changed for us personally,'' said David Eppley, who married Chad Garner in 2004. What has changed for gay couples is that marriage is part of the dating landscape, adding tension or romance, pressure or excitement.
 ''It makes me completely think differently about the relationship,'' said Lance Collins, 38, a colorist at a Boston hair salon. He envisions his perfect wedding (grooms in jeans and T-shirts), but his partner does not want to marry. ''I know he cares about me quite a bit,'' Mr. Collins said. ''I just think he doesn't want to.'' 
 Mr. Collins believes his partner is his ideal match because he ''gets as excited about seeing me as I get about seeing him,'' because ''sometimes he'll do my laundry and fold it the way I like it,'' and because ''he makes my coffee really well -- one Equal with just a tablespoon of fat-free half-and-half.''
 But their marriage chasm worries him. ''Maybe I should move out and maybe that will make him appreciate me,'' Mr. Collins said. ''I've gone so far as looking for an apartment.'' 
 While many couples want conventional marriages, some are drawing on a creative definition of family forged while living ''outside mainstream society,'' said Joyce Kauffman, a family lawyer and gay activist. ''They've incorporated whatever's outside the box into their marriage.''
 Eric Erbelding and his husband, Michael Peck, both 44, see each other only every other weekend because Mr. Peck works in Pittsburgh. So, Mr. Erbelding said, ''Our rule is you can play around because, you know, you have to be practical.''
 Mr. Erbelding, a decorative painter in Boston, said: ''I think men view sex very differently than women. Men are pigs, they know that each other are pigs, so they can operate accordingly. It doesn't mean anything.''
 Still, Mr. Erbelding said, most married gay couples he knows are ''for the most part monogamous, but for maybe a casual three-way.''
 Some same-sex spouses have split up, including Julie and Hillary Goodridge, the lead plaintiffs in the case that paved the way for same-sex marriage in the state.
 ''Lesbian and gay couples get divorced for the same reasons that heterosexual couples do,'' Ms. Kauffman said. ''Honestly the only thing that is different is that some people rushed to get married without thinking it through just because they could. It was an incredibly heady historical moment, and some people probably made the decision hastily.''
 Rick Bettencourt, 41, married his partner of 12 years in July 2005, but by September they had broken up, and his partner is now married to another man, he said.
 ''I knew there was an issue with us prior to the marriage,'' Mr. Bettencourt said, ''but we thought maybe this is the thing that will help us stay together. Stupid, obviously. It was almost like I needed the marriage in order to consummate the relationship in order to break it up.'' 
 Amy Bullock married in 2004 after her partner of nine years said ''we've got to quick do it because maybe they'll reverse'' the law, Ms. Bullock recalled. They had a child and were considering having another. But five months after the wedding, ''she decides she is straight,'' Ms. Bullock said.
 ''Maybe being married triggered those feelings,'' she said. ''I didn't see it coming.''
 Chris Burgess, pregnant when she wed her partner in June 2004, severed the marriage in 2006 when past problems resurfaced, she said. Divorce was more complicated than ''in most of our relationships, whereyou say, 'O.K., you get these CDs,' '' Ms. Burgess said. Her partner needed to adopt their son before divorcing to retain parental rights. 
 Now, Ms. Burgess lives with another woman and they wear rings and want children, but she says she will not marry unless federal recognition makes it economically irresistible. 
 ''I'm kind of fine with the 'Brad Pitt-Angelina Jolie, all right we're committed, we don't need to get married,' '' she said. 
 Ms. Bullock, who is dating another woman, is buying a duplex with her former wife so both can see their son daily. She is wary of remarrying in general, though she says marriage may have made separation more equitable. 
 Mr. Bettencourt and his current partner, Chris Weaver, just bought a house, but he played down a ring he gave Mr. Weaver for Valentine's Day, telling him, he says, ''I don't want you to get concerned that I'm pushing marriage or anything.''
 Some couples, including longtime partners and those with children, have rejected marriage for economic, philosophical or cultural reasons. 
 ''I just don't really see the point in it,'' said Michelle Smith, 51, of Truro, who has two children with Terri Humes, 51, her partner of 27 years. ''I don't need that paper for any type of validation. I know what her and I have.''
 Ms. Kauffman considers marriage a ''patriarchal institution'' that ''politically, kind of makes me queasy.'' 
 To Clint Wolbert, 28, marriage is too ''assimilative.'' Being gay is like belonging to an ''exclusive club,'' Mr. Wolbert said. ''I just worry that the drive to marry will end up kind of chipping away at the culture.''
 Some couples are advised not to marry for financial reasons or if they want to adopt children from foreign countries, most of which would not place children with a same-sex married couple. 
 Bill Brandon, a doctor who will soon marry Tedd Elison, waited several years because Mr. Elison's job as a disc jockey seemed too unstable until he also began running a hair salon. ''I wasn't going to go through this unless he was -- I don't want to say having a real job, but more of a profession,'' Dr. Brandon said. 
 Same-sex married couples report widespread acceptance in Massachusetts, but not necessarily out of state. At a Disney World hotel, ''I got the third degree -- who is Heather, is she your sister?'' Adrienne Walker said. 
 An Atlanta pharmacy argued when Mr. Boney, filling a prescription, said that as a husband, he was covered by Mr. Venter's insurance. 
 The Bailey-Davieses are so nervous about being separated if one gets sick that they rejected spending the winter in Florida. ''I don't feel safe,'' Linda said. ''I'd rather freeze my butt off and be with my honey.''
 Jodi Sperber, who moved with her wife, Pippa Shulman, to New Hampshire, said a handyman there ''could not bring himself to talk about Pippa as anything other than my associate.'' But over all, Ms. Sperber said, their religion probably draws ''stranger questions: 'Why don't you have a Christmas tree? Is it the Jewish thing?' ''
 Many couples said marriage had made relatives more comfortable with their relationships. Mr. Boney, who is black, was surprised that his ''very conservative, very Bible Belt'' family in North Carolina welcomed Mr. Venter, a white South African, so warmly. And when his nieces and nephews say ''Uncle Jacob,'' he said, it ''almost brings a tear to my eye; and honey, it takes a lot to bring a tear to my eye.'' 
 Mr. Boney and Mr. Venter remain committed to marriage despite their conflicts. 
 ''It's a hard commitment to make,'' Mr. Venter said. But they try to settle their disagreements. ''I'm more willing to figure it out,'' he said. ''In the past I might have just ended the relationship.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''There are no role models for gay marriage,'' said Jacob Venter of Boston, right, with his husband of four years, Billy Boney. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
Rick Bettencourt, left, married and split up in 2005. He now lives with Chris Weaver.
Eric Erbelding and his husband deal with the obstacles of a long-distance marriage.
 Heather, left, and Adrienne Walker with their four children in Natick, Mass., say others have more respect for the seriousness of their relationship since they married. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A23) CHART: Same-Sex Marriages In Massachusetts: Since May 2004, when the state first began allowing same-sex couples to marry, the number of such marriages has declined substantially each year. Nearly a quarter of all marriages are clustered in Provincetown and Boston. (Source: Massachusetts Office of Health and Human Services)(A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (95%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (95%); MARRIAGE (91%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); FAMILY LAW (78%); PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (73%); CENSUS (69%); ADOPTION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



382 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: A Victory for Tenants

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL. 
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
OFF the construction-choked streets of Manhattan, tenants are in court fighting condominium developers, in search of justice -- or at least a bigger settlement.
 At 220 Central Park South, 22 tenants recently won a small victory in State Supreme Court in Manhattan that could eventually delay the demolition of their building for a 41-story glass tower. In a ruling on June 4, Justice Paul G. Feinman found that state law may require the state to conduct a formal environmental review, including a study of what effect the project, and its influx of wealthy buyers, ''may have on population patterns or existing community character.'' 
 The decision rejected efforts by the developers, the Clarett Group and Vornado Realty Trust, to dismiss the tenant suit. 
 Jack L. Lester, a lawyer for the tenants, said the ruling marked the first time a court had found that environmental regulations might be used to protect tenants under the state's rent-stabilization law. 
 Veronica W. Hackett, the managing partner of the Clarett Group, minimized the decision's significance. She said that a state hearing officer had been assigned to the group's eviction case and that she expected the hearings to get under way soon.
 James Plastiras, a spokesman for the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, suggested that the hearings might be delayed because of the lawsuit. ''We are reviewing all possible options,'' he said.
 The proposed demolition, announced last year, involves the eviction of 80 tenants from a large postwar building. All but 30 tenants have since left the building, including market-rent tenants and rent-regulated tenants who have accepted buyouts.
 Mr. Lester said the tenants he represents had rejected an offer of $1 million per apartment to leave the building and were seeking a higher offer. 
 They include Jean E. Shimotake, a partner at the law firm of White & Case, and Leighton Candler, a well-known broker at the Corcoran Group. Ms. Candler was recently selected to handle the sale of the late Brooke Astor's duplex co-op at 778 Park Avenue with an asking price $46 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 220 Central Park South 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); EVICTION (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); LITIGATION (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (70%); WHITE & CASE LLP (57%)

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (70%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



383 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Bush Says Iran Spurns New Offer On Uranium

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and ELAINE SCIOLINO; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
President Bush accused Iran on Saturday of rejecting a new set of incentives to stop enriching uranium, only hours after the proposal received a cold shoulder when it was delivered by Western diplomats in Tehran. 
 ''I am disappointed that the leaders rejected this generous offer out of hand,'' Mr. Bush said during a joint news conference here with President Nicolas Sarkozy of France. ''It is an indication to the Iranian people that their leadership is willing to isolate them further. Our view is we want the Iranian people to flourish and to benefit.''
 Tehran did not formally reject the offer, meaning that it may be able, as Western officials fear, to play for time, saying that it is in an ongoing dialogue with the West while continuing to enrich uranium to secure the amounts necessary to build a nuclear bomb. 
 The response, in the waning days of Mr. Bush's presidency, was far from warm. The new package was handed to the Iranian foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, by the European Union foreign policy chief, Javier Solana. Mr. Mottaki said that Iran's response would depend on how the West responded to Iran's May 13 proposal calling for international talks on all issues and improved international inspection of Iran's nuclear facilities. But Iran's proposal does not mention the key Western demand -- that Iran stop enriching uranium.
 But before Mr. Bush spoke, an Iranian government spokesman, Gholamhossein Elham, made it clear in Tehran that stopping enrichment was unacceptable. ''If the package includes suspension it is not debatable at all.'' Mr. Elham said. ''Iran's view is clear: any precondition is unacceptable.''
 Both Mr. Bush and Mr. Sarkozy emphasized that current and future economic sanctions on the people of Iran were the fault of the Tehran government's insistence on enriching uranium in violation of United Nations Security Council resolutions, and that the West should not be blamed for the economic pain.
 The French and Americans presumed in advance that their new proposal of incentives -- a negotiated gesture to Russia and China for their support of earlier Security Council sanctions -- would be brushed aside by Tehran, officials and diplomats said, insisting on anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue. 
 Mr. Bush has previously said that an Iranian nuclear weapon is ''insupportable'' and that all options, including military strikes, remain available.
 But Mr. Bush and the Europeans who formally made the offer want to show that all efforts at dialogue are being taken, and they are hoping to ensure that ordinary Iranians can have access to the full text of the offer.
 A copy of the two-part document was made available to The New York Times.
 Mr. Sarkozy, who has strongly supported Washington on the Iran nuclear issue, used language harsher than Mr. Bush's. An Iranian nuclear bomb would be ''a menace unacceptable for the stability of the world,'' Mr. Sarkozy said, appealing to the Iranians to show good faith, allow full international inspections and accept the offer of civilian nuclear power if they stopped their own enrichment program.
 ''Iran has the right like all countries in the world to have civil nuclear power and we are ready to help them,'' he said. ''If they have nothing to hide, they should show it.''
 The offer to Iran by the world's six major powers, including the United States, was a sweetened version of a rejected June 2006 offer. It promises ''direct dialogue and contact'' with Iran if it freezes crucial nuclear activities and ''dialogue and cooperation on nonproliferation, regional security and stabilization issues.''
 To show solidarity, Mr. Solana was accompanied on his trip to Iran by the political directors of the Foreign Ministries of France, Britain, Germany, Russia and China. Washington has no diplomatic relations with Iran and did not send a representative.
 The United States has refused to negotiate directly with Iran until it suspends enrichment, but it has also promised a full regional dialogue with Iran, which would include Iraq, Syria and Middle East peace, if enrichment stops. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has said of the Iranian government: ''We would be willing to meet with them but not while they continue to inch toward nuclear weapons under the cover of talks.''
 Should Iran accept it, the new proposal is based on a timetable for negotiations. Talks would start with a six-week mutual ''freeze'' period to establish the good will of both sides, according to the text. 
 The six world powers ''will refrain from any new action in the Security Council,'' while Iran ''will refrain from any new nuclear activity, including the installation of any new centrifuges,'' the fast-spinning machines that enrich uranium. 
 The timetable was first proposed to Iran in early May 2007, but its precise details had not previously been made public. 
 As before, the new proposal recognizes Iran's right to peaceful nuclear energy. It pledges to support construction of modern light-water reactors, to arrange for the timely provision of enriched fuel and to cooperate in trade, energy, agriculture, the environment and civil aviation.
 But with Russia and China reluctant to endorse harsher sanctions against Iran, and with oil prices at record levels, assuaging the pain of Iran's damaged economy, Western officials are examining other punitive moves against Iran that could be taken by a ''coalition of the willing'' outside the United Nations.
 Officials would not provide details, but analysts suggest those could include a naval embargo of the Persian Gulf or the refusal to supply Western-made technology required for Iran's oil industry, creating bottlenecks in Iran's oil production.
 But even these measures would take months to negotiate and put in place.
 In the meantime, Iran is thought to be waiting out the Bush administration, with a new president bound to spend months in a policy review of Iran that it hopes could produce a less conditioned dialogue than Mr. Bush has been willing to allow. 
 The offer and an accompanying letter signed by Mr. Solana and five foreign ministers, including Ms. Rice, mentioned no new punitive measures against Iran, but concentrates on incentives. The letter praises Iran as a great civilization, but warns that ''Iran's relationship with the international community has been overshadowed by growing tension and mistrust, since there remains a lack of confidence in Iran's nuclear program.''
 In Paris, Mr. Bush and Mr. Sarkozy both urged Syria to break with Iran and re-establish peaceful diplomatic relations with Lebanon's government.
 France has reached out to Syria, to invite it to a new Union of the Mediterranean that France intends to establish during its European Union presidency. 
 Mr. Bush was blunt, telling Syria to ''stop fooling around with the Iranians and stop harboring terrorists'' and to stop supporting radical Islamic groups like Hamas and Hezbollah that use violence to destabilize the peace process and Lebanon itself.
 Mr. Sarkozy said that Syria was a Mediterranean country and that if France started ''picking and choosing'' whom to invite to the new union, very few would attend -- another way for him to defend his invitation to Israel, which is causing problems for some Arab states.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (79%); JAVIER SOLANA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); IRAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



384 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Almighty Dollar

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

 BODY:
Now the child of scorn.
 The U.S. dollar -- beloved greenback, graced by George Washington's face -- is down in the dumps. No longer is its name modified by almighty, a word in its noun form reserved for God. 
 Today the phrase is used in gleeful derogation: Business Day, a South African publication, reports ''the collapse of the almighty dollar,'' for which it blames low interest rates in the U.S. (to resist the threat of recession) while European central bankers keep interest rates high (to counter inflation). As a result, holding dollars became less desirable than holding euros. Nearly a decade ago, they were of equal value; now it takes a buck and a half to buy one euro. Although this helps us sell American exports, it makes our imports much more costly, which is why imported oil is driving American motorists out of driving -- and why the Federal Reserve may stop cutting interest rates. 
 Enough economics; however, because Rob Walker, The Times Magazine's consumer columnist, recently wrote an essay with the headline ''Almighty Dolor,'' nicely punning on the noun for ''sorrow,'' the language columnist can wade into this historic bit of financial jargon. 
 Tom Ricks, the Washington Post's military correspondent, gets into the phrase-detection act with this e-mail message: ''I just noticed that Washington Irving used the phrase 'the almighty dollar' in 1855. I had assumed it was a 20th-century thought. It certainly isn't applicable in the 21st century.'' 
 The thought of the all-powerful -- and morally corrupting -- nature of money was first expressed in rhyme by Ben Jonson, Shakespeare's playwriting rival, in a 1599 letter he wrote to a countess named Elizabeth: ''Whilst that for which all virtue now is sold, And almost every vice -- almighty gold.'' In the Democratic primaries this spring, Chris Cuomo of ABC News asked, ''Can Hillary Clinton win the fight for the Democratic nomination if she doesn't win the fight for the almighty dollar?'' That did not treat the dollar all that disrespectfully by complaining of its worship, but during that intraparty tumult, the conservative Glenn Beck of CNN made a populist observation: ''We have these enormous houses and these expensive lifestyles that we shouldn't have because we're worshiping the almighty dollar.'' 
 It was indeed Washington Irving, as Ricks notes, who first derided the dollar as the undue object of near-religious reverence. Writing about the Creole villages of Louisiana, the biographer of George Washington, Irving's namesake, praised the simple values observed by the rural area's residents: ''The almighty dollar, that great object of universal devotion throughout our land, seems to have no genuine devotees in these peculiar villages.'' 
 With a phrasedick's obeisance to Isidore of Seville, who founded the field of etymology in A.D. 630, and with the scholarly help of Mary Huth in the rare-books section of the University of Rochester's library, I can report that Washington Irving first used that phrase nearly two decades earlier, in an 1836 sketch published a year later in an annual collection called ''The Magnolia.'' In 1855, in his book ''Wolfert's Roost'' (which was Ricks's source, secondary but no fiasco), the phrase-making Irving added this unapologetic apology in a footnote to the reprint: 
 ''This phrase, used for the first time in this sketch,'' wrote Irving, nailing down credit for his coinage, ''has since passed into current circulation, and by some has been questioned as savoring of irreverence. The author, therefore, owes it to his orthodoxy to declare that no irreverence was intended even to the dollar itself; which he is aware is becoming more and more an object of worship.''
 In that savoring spirit, let me recall this gag, a literary chestnut but apropos: What is the question to which ''Washington Irving'' is the answer? The question: ''Who was the father of our country, Sidney?''
 Slay That Suffix
 ''I am a sky-diver,'' e-mails Kim Emerson. ''When we sky-dive together, we like to stay in relative position with one another, which we call being 'on level.' A friend of mine calls this 'maintaining levelitidy.' Why do people feel the need to add a suffix to a word that already suffices as is?''
 Sometimes a suffix changes the meaning of a noun; function is neutral, but functionality gains a meaning of ''usefulness.'' But often it does nothing but stretch out a word: deceptiveness is not as punchy as the shorter deception, and potentiality is a waste of syllables when potential does the trick. As the year's primary season began, Barack Obama charged, ''I think there's some intentionality on the part of the Clinton campaign to knock us off message,'' which was possibly that campaign's intent, or even intention. All too often, such suffixation is an example of pretentiousness.
 (Pretentiousness? That's the noun form of the adjective pretentious, created by adding the suffix -ness. But wouldn't it be better to use the shorter noun pretension? Or the even shorter noun, pretense? No; sometimes brevity asks too much. In the synonymy of pompous fakery, the mouth-filling pretentiousness goes beyond ''characterized by pretension'' to mean ''affectedly showing off one's claimed erudition or prestige,'' as exemplified in this paragraph.)
 In general, however, suffer not the surplus suffix. Take the shortening plunge with my satiric sky-diving correspondent: ''Thank you for your attentionality.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (LETTERING BY HELICOPTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); WRITERS (87%); RECESSION (78%); RELIGION (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); EURO (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (61%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (77%); GLENN BECK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



385 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Hugo Chavez, New and Improved

 BODY:
It turns out that Hugo Chavez is an adaptable man. The Venezuelan president, who has championed -- and almost certainly helped arm -- Colombia's FARC rebels, called last week for the rebels to lay down their weapons and unconditionally surrender their hostages. 
 We suspect this change of heart has been driven more by self-interest than conviction. Mr. Chavez is increasingly unpopular at home and increasingly isolated abroad, especially as evidence has mounted of his meddling in Colombia. The change nevertheless is welcome and well timed. 
 The FARC, which long ago chose drug trafficking over liberation, has been under assault from Colombia's Army and looks as if it is unraveling. The United States, Colombia and all of Venezuela's neighbors should press Mr. Chavez to use all of his influence to get the rebels to demobilize. 
 There is good news inside Venezuela too. On the same weekend that Mr. Chavez turned on the FARC, he suspended a chilling new law he had enacted by decree that would have forced Venezuelans to cooperate with the intelligence services or go to jail. He has also withdrawn a school curriculum that blasted capitalism as a force to subjugate the people.
 With Venezuela's economy slowing and its inflation rate the highest in Latin America, Mr. Chavez's approval rating has plunged since December, when he narrowly lost a referendum that would have given him even more power and allowed him to run for re-election indefinitely. With gubernatorial elections coming in November, he apparently decided he needed a political makeover. 
 Mr. Chavez has a lot further to go. He must stop all aid to the FARC. He must stop using the levers of the state to harass his political opposition at home. And he must stop trying to seize by decree powers that voters denied him in December's referendum. Venezuela's voters and its neighbors should use all of their influence to persuade Mr. Chavez that real change is good. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); REFERENDUMS (70%); GOVERNORS (69%); CURRICULA (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); INFLATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (55%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (91%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



386 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Lily Stockman, Peter Brooks

 BODY:
Isabel Robinson Stockman, a daughter of Lisa Russell Stockman and Robert Bernard Stockman of Princeton, N.J., was married at her family's farm there on Saturday afternoon to Lt. Peter Harrington Brooks, a son of Virginia Woodworth Brooks and Stephen Harrington Brooks of Weston, Mass. The Rev. Valerie Webster, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony. 
 The couple met at Harvard, from which they graduated.
 The bride, 26, is known as Lily. Last month she left her job as a production associate on the assignment desk at ABC News in New York; she will continue working for the network as a freelance producer. 
 Her father is the executive chairman and a founder of Reva Medical, a San Diego company that develops dissolvable coronary stents. He is also a trustee of St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H. Her mother is a trustee of the Princeton Day School and serves on the board of the Youth Foundation in New York, which awards college scholarships to needy high school seniors. 
 The bridegroom, 24, returned in March from a tour in Iraq and is stationed at the Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center in Twentynine Palms, Calif. 
 The bridegroom's mother is a residential real estate broker with the Coldwell Banker office in Weston. His father is an economics consultant and researcher for colleges and universities. 
 Ms. Stockman and Lieutenant Brooks endured long separations from the start. 
 They met in 2006, the year they both graduated from Harvard, at a graduation party for a mutual friend. ''I was weeks away from moving to Mongolia and he was about to take off for God-knows-where with the Marine Corps,'' she said. ''But we both quickly realized we were nuts about each other and promised that as soon as we fulfilled our obligations we would never leave each other's side again.'' 
 Ms. Stockman left for Mongolia on a National Geographic youth grant as a member of an expedition to document nomadic culture. She was away for several weeks and they had a summer courtship until Lieutenant Brooks went to Virginia for training that August. A year later he was deployed to Iraq.
 In May 2007, before going overseas, he went to New York and proposed on a bench in Central Park. Minutes later, they stopped near the statue of Robert Burns along Literary Walk. As he read a 1795 Burns song, ''There Was a Bonie Lass,'' about a romance interrupted by war, she cried. 
 ''Robbie Burns expressed how important she would be to me in making it through the deployment,'' he said. 
 He returned from Iraq two and a half months ago. ''So our wedding isn't just a celebration of our marriage,'' she said, ''for me it's also a celebration of his safe return home from the war.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); CONCORD, NH, USA (71%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MONGOLIA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); IRAQ (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



387 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: The Conservator

BYLINE: By JACOB HEILBRUNN. 
Jacob Heilbrunn, a regular contributor to the Book Review, is the author of ''They Knew They Were Right: The Rise of the Neocons.''

 BODY:
ONE MAN'S AMERICA 
 The Pleasures and Provocations of Our Singular Nation. 
 By George F. Will. 
 384 pp. Crown Forum. $26.95. 
 When William F. Buckley Jr. died a few months ago, George F. Will, who dedicates ''One Man's America'' to him, became, perhaps, the right's most enduring elder statesman. It's a distinction he's worked assiduously to earn. Over the past three and a half decades, Will has been conservative in everything but his output, which includes several columns a week and regular appearances on Sunday television, along with a steady stream of books on subjects ranging from baseball to politics. But Will isn't noteworthy simply for his industry. As this droll and discerning examination of America reminds us, he's also been, and remains, the conscience of conservatism.
 In the past few years, something of a battle between ancients and moderns has been taking place among conservatives. The first camp included Buckley and other founding members of the postwar conservative movement, who look askance at George W. Bush and believe in reason, not revelation. The second and more boisterous camp is made up of neoconservatives and bloggers, who saw Bush as the reincarnation of Winston Churchill, at least until Senator John McCain became the Republican Party's standard-bearer. 
 Will, of course, has been an ancient ever since he was a toddler. He arrived in Washington in the early 1970s after studying at Oxford and Princeton, invariably sporting a bow tie and citing Edmund Burke. The unabashed Anglophilia, coupled with the self-assured diction and arch prose, created consternation among liberals. Potshots were aimed at Will from places like Esquire and The New Republic, but they only served to confirm his importance. As conservatism took off, so did his career.
 As Will notes at the outset of this collection of his recent columns, however, conservatism has hit something of a rough patch with the Bush presidency, which, in his stringent assessment, has produced ''a torrent of acrimony about the dubious inception and incompetent conduct of a war that became perhaps the worst foreign policy debacle in the nation's history.'' In 2004, at a moment when other columnists on the right were dutifully lining up to garland Bush with laurels and declare the Iraq war a blazing success, Will was deploring what he saw as a flagrant repudiation of conservative principles -- a war that was supposed to create peace in the Middle East by relying on the kind of social engineering that Republicans abhorred at home. 
 But then, Will has always had a knack for upsetting the conservative apple cart. He displayed his stubbornly independent streak back in January 1987 when he dismissed Vice President George H. W. Bush as a ''lap dog'' and when, a few months later, after the release of the Tower Commission report on the Iran-contra scandal, he stated that Ronald Reagan ''must prove that he is still interested in being president.'' 
 Will's distaste, then, for presidential overreaching -- he was also among the first on the right to denounce Watergate -- is hardly new. He believes in that quaint document known as the Constitution, which sets firm limits on presidential power abroad that have been routinely flouted by presidents since the onset of the cold war. Some of Will's most acidulous passages therefore center on the Republican Party's exaltation of military power as the prescription for curing America's foreign policy woes. He traces the rot back to Theodore Roosevelt, who lamented that Americans lacked ''the stomach for empire,'' and said, ''I don't think that any harm comes from the concentration of power in one man's hands.'' This militancy, Will writes, set a perilous example for today's Republicans.
 Will points out that veneration for Roosevelt, fostered by, among others, William Kristol and David Brooks, the advocates, or more precisely concocters, of ''national greatness'' conservatism, is antithetical to the ideal of limited government. Will believes the very opposite. America's greatness resides in its reluctance to conscript its citizens ''into vast collective undertakings'' at home or abroad. Will also objects to the idolatry of Reagan that has taken hold among conservatives. ''Conservatives,'' he writes, ''should face the fact that Reaganism cannot define conservatism.'' Not only can't but shouldn't, because, Will says, Reagan catered to the notion that all Americans are, as he put it in his first Inaugural Address, ''heroes.'' By implication, they should feel free to indulge themselves since they deserve it.
 Has Will lurched leftward? Not at all. As his 1983 book ''Statecraft as Soulcraft'' indicates, he has long regretted that we have ''become a nation wedded to the liberal assumption that the way to deal with passions is to 'express' them, to maximize 'self-expression.''' These sentiments have now led to a sentimentalization of America. By contrast, Will mocks what he sees as a saccharine therapeutic culture in which bus drivers in Scottsdale, Ariz., are referred to as ''tranporters of learners'' and school receptionists as ''directors of first impressions.'' What's more, Will ridicules Thomas Frank's fatuous ''What's the Matter With Kansas?,'' which maintained that Americans vote conservative only because hot-button social issues like abortion and gun-control blind them to their true economic interests. As Will puts it, ''It has come to this: The crux of the political left's complaint about Americans is that they are insufficiently materialistic.'' 
 But these are easy targets, sometimes too easy. When Will issues blanket and tedious denunciations of American universities, he has a penchant for stacking the deck: ''Professors, lusting after tenure and prestige, teach that the great works of the Western canon, properly deconstructed, are not explorations of the human spirit but mere reflections of power relations and social pathologies.'' But is there anything wrong with a professor aspiring to make a mark in his or her field? Was Will ''lusting'' for ''prestige'' when he embarked upon his career as a journalist or was he simply trying to make a success of himself? And to denounce professors as a class is a form of reverse Marxism, no less absurd than depicting all businessmen as intrinsically greedy and corrupt.
 Elsewhere, Will, like not a few conservatives, drifts into intellectual quicksand in trying to reconcile his worship of the past with his admiration for the free market. What Daniel Bell called the cultural contradictions of capitalism poses something of a problem for him since, you might say, he admires libertarian economics but not the libertinism that accompanies it. And for all his denunciations of hedonism, Will's contempt for environmentalists and admiration of capitalism prompts him to pour scorn on measures to protect the planet. Suddenly, the swollen appetites of Americans are O.K. According to Will, in a column from 2002, ''Beware the wrath of Americans who like to drive, and autoworkers who like to make, cars that are large, heavy and safer than the gasoline sippers that environmentalists prefer.''
 He continues, ''Some environmentalism is a feel-good indulgence for an era of energy abundance.'' Still, when it comes to preserving a Civil War battlefield at Chancellorsville, Va., Will bemoans the threat of automobiles and new highways.
 Unlike the radicals on the right who want to upend American traditions, Will seeks to conserve them. Despite his habitual caution, however, even Will seems to have made at least one concession to modernity that may leave some of his admirers reeling. The bow tie has vanished. For the cover photograph of ''One Man's America,'' he's donned a necktie.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CONSERVATISM (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HISTORY (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); BASEBALL (69%); WRITERS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (51%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); JOHN MCCAIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); MIDDLE EAST (73%)

TITLE: One Man's America (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



388 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1825 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: June 15, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 OLD FARMING HABITS
 Leave Legacy of Salt
 The former Soviet state of Uzbekistan is the world's second-largest cotton exporter after the United States. But the irrigation steps taken to produce the plant in the land-locked country have long taken an environmental toll, creating large salt flats, and corruption, poor planning and the degradation of cropland threaten cotton's status as king. PAGE 6 
 TROOPS MASS FOR ASSAULT
 Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki massed Iraqi troops near Amara, a city controlled by forces loyal to the radical cleric Moktada al-Sadr. The launching of the operation came a day after Mr. Sadr announced that he was reorganizing his Shiite movement. If an assault follows, as anticipated, it will be the fourth time this spring that Mr. Maliki has sent troops into a city dominated by Shiite or Sunni militias. PAGE 12 
 NATIONAL
 JUGGLING HIGH SCHOOL
 And Juggling
 He got his start thanks to his sixth-grade teacher, who taught him and a few classmates to juggle. Now Reid Fierheller-Conklin, who competes for crowds by juggling fire by the water at sunset, is a performance veteran at 16 and a sign of Key West's transformation from a freewheeling party mecca to a clean-cut family getaway. PAGE 14
 OBAMA GETS UP CLOSE
 Senator Barack Obama, fighting the perception that he is only a razzle-dazzle speechmaker who is aloof in small settings, has spent the first full week of the general election campaign in intimate appearances. He has also been showing a more pugnacious side, telling a Philadelphia fund-raiser Friday night that he was prepared for a fight with Republicans. PAGE 14
 TRYING FOR DISTANCE
 Automobile clubs and towing services say they are getting an increasing number of calls from motorists who have run out of gas, a not-so-surprising result of the way fuel prices have been going up. ''People are just trying to squeeze the most they can out of a gallon,'' said a spokesman for one auto service. PAGE 14
 METRO 
 MORE PROMINENT ROLE 
 For Tasers Is Possible
 Tasers, which are much favored by some police departments, have never been fully embraced by the New York City police, partly because of the difficulties in maintaining the devices. But a report on a study of police shootings that was commissioned after a Queens man was killed by officers recommended that the New York police experiment with using Tasers more. PAGE 25 
 SALUTING ALL DADS
 Peter Applebome looks back at three dads he grew up with, his own and two neighbors. ''Maybe some kids today grow up with the same odd air of total familiarity with their neighbors,'' he writes in Our Towns. ''But just as almost no kids seem to just go out and play ball in the street without an adult telling them what to do, it doesn't seem today's style.'' PAGE 25
 SPORTS
 THE MAN BEHIND CENTER 
 Is a Center of Calm
 Two of Eli Manning's receivers are generating minicamp headlines for the Giants by showing up but expressing their displeasure, each in his own way. Meanwhile, Harvey Araton writes in Sports of The Times, ''The Man is staying characteristically calm, shaking off minicamp controversies as he did Patriots tacklers last February on third-and-Tyree, brushing off praise as he did all doubters, accepting his new standing as the sleepy-eyed face of the Giants with a familiar aw-shucks shrug.'' PAGE 5
 SWAPPING PASSPORTS
 The eligibility rules for the United States president call for being a natural-born citizen, but not so for Olympic athletes. And so it is that among those taking part in the Beijing Games this August representing the United States will be a kayaker from Poland, table tennis players from China, a triathlete from New Zealand, a world-champion distance runner from Kenya and a gold-medal-winning equestrian from Australia. PAGE 1
 A STUDY IN CONTRASTS
 On the field he may be a menacing All-Pro linebacker for the Dallas Cowboys. But on his living room couch, making baby noises and shaking a rattle as he holds his 3-month-old daughter, DeMarcus Ware shows another side. Finally, he and his wife, Taniqua, 26, have a child of their own. ''Our little angel,'' Ware says. PAGE 6
 OBITUARIES
 ANNE C. MARTINDELL, 93
 She entered politics in her 50s, found true love as ambassador to New Zealand in her 60s, earned a college degree in her 80s and published a memoir titled ''Never Too Late'' in her 90s. PAGE 30
 Sunday Business
 A DEAL RAISES
 Shareholder Ire
 Some shareholders of Washington Mutual, the nation's largest savings and loan, are not happy with the board's decision to go through with a $7 billion capital infusion. And the more they read the fine print, the angrier they get. Gretchen Morgenson, Fair Game. PAGE 1
 $15 HEAVIER
 American Airlines' decision to charge passengers $15 for their first checked bag was initially criticized by other carriers. But many followed suit, with more likely to do so. What no one knows is what kind of confusion the new policy will have at the ticket counter -- or in the suddenly very attractive overhead bins. PAGE 1
 The Future Richest Person? 1
 Getting an Online Degree 14
 Sunday Styles
 ED MCMAHON
 And the Mortgage Crisis
 When the mortgage market imploded, it dragged down thousands of distraught homeowners, Bear Stearns and even Ed McMahon. The television personality and his wife have been trying to sell their Los Angeles mansion for some time after he defaulted on his mortgage. But he has an advantage most people don't: he can talk about his problems on ''Larry King Live.'' PAGE 2
 YOUNG, RICH AND NORMAL
 Melissa C. Morris's blog is called May December, so named because it details the life she leads with her wealthy husband, who is 30 years her senior. But her popular site eschews the salacious tidbits one might assume such a blog would traffic in, in favor of, say, soliciting reader advice on where to place her silverware rack. PAGE 1
 Book Review
 A TELEVISION MAINSTAY 
 Looks Back
 Barbara Walters's much-discussed memoir, ''Audition,'' isn't quite ''Ulysses,'' but at 612 pages, it comes pretty close. She remembers how much ''fun'' it was to date Alan Greenspan (really?), her affair with Senator Edward Brooke and her contemptuous relationship with co-anchor Harry Reasoner. PAGE 9
 THE CONSERVATOR
 On the cover of George F. Will's book, ''One Man's America,'' the conservative writer has swapped his trademark bow tie for a necktie. But Jacob Heilbrunn says that's not the only thing in the collection of columns that might unnerve admirers, as ''Will has always had a knack for upsetting the conservative apple cart.'' PAGE 8
 Arts & Leisure
 OUT WITH THE OLD,
 In With the ... Old
 Many an old, beloved television show has been turned into a movie. ''Get Smart,'' the movie based on the show about the bumbling spy and starring Steve Carell, is the latest in that long (and often underwhelming) tradition. So how to market a movie that appeals both to die-hard fans and legions of young people unfamiliar with the source material? PAGE 1
 Doctor Who's Creator PAGE 1
 Travel
 READY FOR ITS CLOSE-UP
 Zaragoza is the fifth-largest city in Spain, but has never had the profile of places like Granada or Toledo. Andrew Ferrin says that could change soon, with the start of Expo Zaragoza 2008, which is expected to bring seven million visitors to the city before closing in September. PAGE 3
 Sunday Magazine
 CAN A COUPLE REALLY
 Halve It All?
 Some parents want to split the child-rearing and housekeeping duties. Is it possible? Some spouses who are determined to adhere to ''equally shared parenting'' explain how they do it, minute by minute, and it's not always easy. PAGE 44
 A PAINTER'S WORLD
 Marlene Dumas, a Dutch painter born in South Africa whose works touch on topics like race relations and terror, is one of the world's most controversial artists. So how, exactly, did she go on to fetch the highest price of a living female painter at auction, ever? PAGE 38
 IS SILENCE GOLDEN?
 A doctor treats a 30-year-old woman in normal, unremarkable health. Another patient, who is an administrator at the woman's school, later mentions how impressive it is that the woman continues with her work even with terminal cancer, and that the school held a fund-raiser to help the woman pay her medical bills. Should the doctor inform the school and confront the woman? Randy Cohen, The Ethicist. PAGE 19
 Automobiles
 UNFORTUNATE TIMING
 Even Decades Later
 The first time Dodge rolled out its Challenger in the early 1970s, the car was doomed by high gasoline prices, tighter emissions standards and a grim economic outlook. The automaker has re-released the Challenger, but Dodge's timing seems as unfortunate as it was nearly four decades ago. PAGE 1
 Week In Review
 IS AGE THE NEW RACE
 And Gender?
 The combustible issues of race and gender have dominated much of the discussion this presidential campaign season. Age will most likely become an important issue because of John McCain, who would be the oldest president at election were he to win the race. Will older voters flock to him? And as life expectancies become longer, who exactly is old, anyway? PAGE 1
 RUSSERT'S PLACE
 Tim Russert's death rattled Washington, a small town where all the players know one another and are obsessed with their place in the pecking order. And while Mr. Russert liked to make note of his roots in Buffalo, he was well aware of his status at the top of the heap. PAGE 1
 EDITORIAL: 
 Foreclosures and Elections
 This Congress and President Bush have done so little for so long about the home mortgage debacle that it is clear they will never manage an effective response. Like so many other problems, this crisis will be dumped on the next president and the next Congress. PAGE 11
 EDITORIAL: 
 The Intel Investigation
 It certainly took its time. But the Federal Trade Commission's decision to open a formal antitrust investigation of Intel is very welcome. PAGE 11
 OP-ED: 
 Frank Rich
 It's McCain, not Obama, who has to worry about disaffected voters in his party deserting in November. PAGE 13
 OP-ED:
 Maureen Dowd
 When it comes to President Bush, the country known for its Gallic shrug can't even muster a sigh of indifference. The French have turned to a new, less hostile obsession -- Carla Bruni Sarkozy. PAGE 12
 OP-ED: 
 Thomas L. Friedman
 The global energy-food crisis is, understandably, a pocketbook issue in America. But in Egypt, you see how, in a society where so many more people live close to the edge, food and fuel prices could become enormously destabilizing. PAGE 13
 OP-ED: 
 Nicholas D. Kristof
 World leaders fight terrorism all the time, but they have studiously ignored one of the most common and brutal varieties -- a kind of terrorism that disproportionately targets children and involves not W.M.D. but AK-47s, machetes and pointed sticks. This is mass rape, and it will be elevated, belatedly, to a spot on the international agenda this week. PAGE 14

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COTTON & COTTONSEED (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); FAMILY TRAVEL (65%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (63%); AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES (63%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); SHOOTINGS (60%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (90%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (55%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UZBEKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



389 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Tariff to Nowhere

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN. 
Roger Lowenstein, a contributing writer, is the author of ''While America Aged,'' published last month.

 BODY:
According to Political Science 101, candidates run to extremes in primary season and crowd the center in November. A good test will be whether the apparent Democratic nominee, Barack Obama, tries to reclaim a moderate position on trade.
 During the primaries, Obama and Hillary Clinton attacked free trade as if it were a scourge at times each one accusing the other of (horror of horrors) harboring a hidden affection for the North American Free Trade Agreement. Clinton has called for a ''time out'' on new trade deals, and Obama has insisted he would renegotiate Nafta. Given that most economists think Nafta, and trade deals like it, have been good for the country, their pandering to the opponents of trade was faintly humorous. No matter. Having finished for the moment with Nafta, the Democrats got behind the recent farm legislation, which was essentially an antitrade bill in disguise. Instead of imposing a tariff on foreign goods, the farm bill tilts the scales in favor of domestic crops by extending, and in some cases increasing, hefty subsidies. 
 Tariffs protect a minority of Americans in threatened industries while punishing the rest of us by raising prices (and by encouraging other nations to retaliate against U.S. industry). In the 1990s, when Bill Clinton pushed through Nafta and normalized trade relations with China, it seemed to reflect a new, bipartisan consensus. But in recent years, Congress soured on trade. Gary Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, laments, ''The consensus is gone.'' Even some economists have begun to suggest that trade is playing a major role in widening the income gap between rich Americans and poor -- especially as more of our imports now originate in low-wage countries.
 What has changed? In the first place, the supposed consensus was never so broad. Clinton passed his trade deals mostly with the votes of Republicans. And in the Bush years, economic troubles have stoked the fear that trade is costing Americans jobs, especially in the shrinking manufacturing sector.
 This was also the fear in 1930, when the U.S. hiked tariffs, aggravating the world Depression. To the diplomats who reshaped the world's economy after World War II, trade barriers were clearly a folly. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, signed in 1947, reduced tariffs around the globe. Seven successive treaties cut them more. Today the average tariff on U.S. imports is a meager 3 percent -- down from 20 percent in 1940. Free or almost-free trade is a fact. Clinton greatly accelerated the process by signing Nafta, which created a free-trade zone with Mexico and Canada. Bush has signed 12 more bilateral deals, with countries ranging from Chile to Morocco. But Congress is balking at passing the most recent pact, with Colombia.
 At latest count, 35 percent of U.S. trade is with countries with whom the U.S. has, in effect, an open market. The other two-thirds remains subject to tariffs -- in some cases quite high ones (exporters to India are often slapped with a tariff of roughly 25 percent). Negotiators in Doha, Qatar, have been trying for years to draft a new multilateral tariff reduction for all. But progress on this monumentally complex process has stalled.
 The Doha talks have emphasized agriculture, reflecting that farm protections remain high. The Bush administration's effort to protect cotton subsidies has hardly inspired other countries to open their markets. The recent farm bill, which doles out treats to sugar growers and many others, should have a similar, chilling effect. Bush opposed the bill but couldn't stop it, and he will leave office with the free-trade momentum having fizzled.
 John McCain, an avid free trader, would surely try to reignite the Doha session. The more interesting question is what the Democrats would do. Obama may soften his populism in the fall, given that protectionists of late have not been winners in national elections. What's more, if he were to win, he would have a difficult time governing as a protectionist. ''There are two forces that will tend to move Obama to centrist positions,'' Hufbauer says. Thanks to the cheap dollar, U.S. exports are booming; trade is now the economy's strong suit. And Obama will find that China is less likely to cooperate on global warming, and the French less likely to lend a hand in Iraq, if our markets are closed to their products. Protectionism does not go down with a multilateral foreign policy.
 And most economists, including those advising Obama, still support the old consensus, that trade promotes the general well-being even if it causes certain industries and their workers harm. The harm is difficult to measure, but trade is hardly the only culprit. Middle- and lower-income workers' relative earning power started falling in the late 1970s -- more than a decade before Nafta. In all likelihood, the loss of manufacturing jobs has more to do with productivity gains (the fact that it takes fewer employees to assemble a car, print a newspaper and so forth) than with trade.
 Even Dani Rodrik, an economist at Harvard's Kennedy School who, like Hillary Clinton, favors a time-out on new trade deals, isn't antitrade. He argues that with trade accounting for fully 30 percent of the gross domestic product, the government should do more to cushion its effects. For instance, it could give workers displaced by trade wage insurance or early retirement.
 And all discussions of the victims of trade ignore the considerable benefits: the exports we sell and the lower prices for consumers at home. Since poorer Americans spend a higher proportion of their incomes on low-wage imports (shoes from China, for instance), trade can also be seen as favoring the less well off. If only politicians would stop preaching to them otherwise. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHULI HALLAK)
GRAPH: GLOBALIZERS UNITE!: Percentage of public that believes globalization is ''mostly good'' (Source: The Chicago Council on Global Affairs and WorldPublicOpinion.org, 2006
 CHART BY CHARLES M. BLOW). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (73%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (61%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); MOROCCO (79%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



390 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Ed McMahon's 90210 Mortgage Crisis

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 WITH sweeping canyon views, gated access and nearby homes owned by the likes of Britney Spears, Ed McMahon's house above Beverly Hills looks like the symbol of a life well paid. 
 That is why it came as a shock when Mr. McMahon, best known as Johnny Carson's sidekick, confirmed this month that he was facing foreclosure.
 He quickly became a national symbol of an overspent borrower struggling with the mortgage crisis. But Mr. McMahon had an advantage over the average homeowner: he could go on ''Larry King Live'' to talk about his plight. 
 ''If you know where the money is, would you let me know?'' Mr. McMahon joked during an interview in the six-bedroom, five-bathroom Mediterranean-style mansion he and his wife, Pamela, have called home for nearly 20 years. 
 In his case, he added more seriously, the troubles were not about a subprime loan or ballooning adjustable rate mortgage, but simple overspending. ''I made a lot of money, but you also can spend a lot of money,'' he said.
 At 85, Mr. McMahon appears to be his jovial self. But he is in the twilight of a successful career, as a broadcast announcer, professional pitchman for brands like Alpo and Budweiser, and television host for shows like ''Star Search'' and ''TV's Bloopers and Practical Jokes.'' He also drew income from acting, radio and writing books, and from serving as a celebrity spokesman for the sweepstakes sponsored by American Family Publishers.
 His house is the one product he has not been able to sell. In the two years the 7,000-square-foot property has been listed on the market, currently at $6.5 million, he has not received a single offer, he said. The recent publicity is turning that around. By the end of last week, there were two offers for the house, said his real estate agent, Alex Davis.
 Earlier this year, he defaulted, he said, on a $4.8-million loan from a unit of Countrywide Financial Corporation, the mortgage lender that is one of a number of companies involved in the mortgage-market implosion. Mr. McMahon, who is more than $600,000 in arrears on the loan, refused to discuss any other details of that or any other debts. (According to Los Angeles County Superior Court records, he also owes American Express more than $747,000 after an arbitration judgment last April.)
 Foreclosures are happening at all income levels, but Mr. McMahon lives on Mulholland Drive in the Santa Monica Mountains, a 90210 neighborhood that real estate brokers say is not in a price slump. 
 Mr. Davis, the real estate agent, said that there had been no urgency to sell until a few months ago, and that he had been selective in showing the property. One factor, he said, was the need to respect his clients' privacy; but another, ''for quite some time,'' was the need to avoid the paparazzi camped out outside the gate.
 ''Everybody was following Britney Spears, and we thought a lot of people were trying to get into the community'' by posing as potential buyers, he said, adding that Ms. Spears's home is now also for sale, and that the scene has ''simmered down.''
 The McMahon house, full of Hollywood pictures and memorabilia and decorated by Mrs. McMahon, is listed as a ''celebrity estate.'' A well-publicized mold problem, which led to a $7.2-million insurance settlement, has been fixed, Mr. Davis said.
 But real estate agents in Beverly Hills say that an inability to sell in two years point at a too-high asking price. Originally $7.6 million in 2006, the price was lowered several times, to $5.7 million in January, then climbed to the current $6.5 million. (Mr. Davis said the increase was needed to cover Mr. McMahon's debt.)
 ''It's not the market or Britney Spears,'' said Drew Mandile, an agent for Sotheby's International Realty in Beverly Hills, who brought clients to see the house in 2006. ''Two years means you're a stubborn person and you refuse to face the reality of the value of the home.''
 Mrs. McMahon offered another explanation. ''Ed and I prayed that we wouldn't sell it,'' she said, admitting that they don't really want to move.
 The financial crisis was long in the making. The McMahons cite his two divorces, their need to take care of family and friends, bad money management and worse investments. He also lost work because of the bad economy, and a neck injury he suffered in a fall (he faces his third surgery in the next few weeks). ''A series of these things befell us, and that's the easiest way to explain where we are right now,'' he said.
 He didn't gamble, he said, and alcohol wasn't part of the equation, despite the running joke on ''The Tonight Show'' portraying him as an enthusiastic imbiber. ''I haven't had a drink in five years,'' he said.
 A Marine fighter pilot who fought in the Korean War and retired with the rank of colonel, Mr. McMahon said he hasn't stopped working since his first professional radio job at age 17. He recently released his latest book, ''When Television Was Young,'' which he wrote with David Fisher. His publicist, Howard Bragman, points at one common misconception. All those millions celebrities make, he said, dwindle fast after they pay agents, managers, lawyers, publicists like himself and, of course, the Internal Revenue Service. Next thing you know, Mr. Bragman said, ''you take $20,000 a month.''
 Since his neck injury last year, in a fall he didn't want to discuss, Mr. McMahon, who has four grown children (another son died) and two adopted children, has worked only on his weekly show, ''The Ed McMahon Show,'' for the USA Radio Network, which he tapes from his home office.
 ''He has the texture to be able to withstand this,'' said Ron Seggi, his longtime producer and close friend. ''He doesn't have a down bone in his body.''
 In fact, he went on ''Larry King Live'' wearing his neck brace to share his optimism with other struggling homeowners. ''All kinds of things can happen,'' he said. ''Let it work out great for you, O.K.?''
 Because Mr. McMahon was always the second banana, making it easier for the public to identify with him, his plight may resonate more than those of many other celebrities who have hit financial bottom. ''We can certainly see ourselves in Ed's role,'' said Walter J. Podrazik, an author of ''Watching TV: Six Decades of American Television.'' ''One of his trademark identifiers was the hearty laugh, even if the joke was falling flat. You and I could do that.''
 He's earned sympathy; a basket on Ms. McMahon's desk is slowly filling up with letters from the public. And a caller on ''Larry King Live'' said he wanted to send in a contribution, which Mr. McMahon refused. But Jay Leno and Donald Trump have publicly vowed to help; others have quietly offered jobs, Mr. Bragman said. 
 The renewed interest in the house from potential buyers is a good sign, but offers are yet to be negotiated. Mr. Davis, the real estate agent, had said last week that Mr. McMahon was also in negotiations with the lender, and a short sale, in which the house sells for less than what's owed on the mortgage, was possible.
 Mr. McMahon -- in bright orange shirt and suspenders, followed around by some of his seven dogs -- said he has no doubt things will work out.
 ''I'm not in the poorhouse,'' he said. ''I'm a lucky man.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MONEY TROUBLE: Ed McMahon, who is best known as Johnny Carson's sidekick, found his home in the Hollywood Hills, below, facing foreclosure after he defaulted on his a mortgage.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); CELEBRITIES (70%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); SWEEPSTAKES (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); MOUNTAINS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); AMERICAN FAMILY PUBLISHERS (54%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (51%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); AXP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC7331 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING SERVICES (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (51%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (51%)

PERSON: BRITNEY SPEARS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



391 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; GOVERNMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Presidential Bid a Memory, Dodd Focuses on Legislation

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 SENATOR CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, the Connecticut Democrat who spent months on the presidential campaign trail earlier this year, may be forgiven for getting a little exasperated when people welcome him back to Washington. 
 The reason is simple: He says he never really left. 
 ''I find it somewhat ironic,'' he said, as he sat in his office recently, apparently vexed at the notion that he had more or less deserted the Senate to travel the country as a presidential candidate. 
 ''We were busy, in addition to running a campaign for the presidency,'' he said, ticking off the issues in Congress he dealt with while he was a presidential candidate. 
 Nevertheless, Mr. Dodd has been an unmistakable presence on Capitol Hill and in his home state of Connecticut since putting the presidential campaign behind him and devoting himself exclusively to his day job. He is pursuing an array of issues and working on proposals to avert a potential credit crisis in the student loan industry, provide relief to people struggling with rising home heating costs and offer paid leave to workers with family emergencies. 
 With Connecticut and the rest of the country facing high foreclosure rates -- Connecticut alone had 14,000 foreclosures in the last three months of 2007 -- Mr. Dodd is also sponsoring a bill that would create a system in which lenders can limit their losses if they agree to reduce the principal balances of loans at risk of default. In turn, borrowers, particularly those with expensive adjustable-rate loans, could apply to refinance with a more stable, 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage insured through the Federal Housing Administration.
 Mr. Dodd is in a position to wield significant influence, since he is a senior member of several committees with jurisdiction over these issues. Perhaps most important, he is the chairman of the banking committee, one of the critical panels in the Senate. 
 Nowadays the senator is back home in Connecticut -- he has long had a home in East Haddam, along the Connecticut River -- just about every weekend, making frequent public appearances to talk about his Senate work.
 But presidential politics is hardly behind Mr. Dodd. He has been mentioned as a potential running mate for Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, the presumed Democratic nominee for president. Mr. Obama is said to have a close relationship with Mr. Dodd, who threw his support behind the Illinois senator after abandoning his own candidacy, to the chagrin of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, who had sought his endorsement. Political analysts say that Mr. Dodd, a five-term incumbent of the Senate who raised his stature with his national campaign, would add experience to the ticket. 
 The last few weeks have also brought distressing news for Mr. Dodd. In May, doctors discovered that Senator Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts, who is perhaps Mr. Dodd's closest friend in the Senate and who Mr. Dodd says is like a brother, had a malignant brain tumor. Mr. Kennedy has since successfully undergone surgery for the tumor, his doctors said. 
 Mr. Dodd has tried to be upbeat and hopeful. ''He's going to be in this fight,'' he said in an interview on ABC's ''Good Morning America'' recently. ''I have a lot of confidence. I wouldn't want to be that tumor. With Teddy Kennedy fighting back, you're in trouble.'' 
 Mr. Dodd, 64, abandoned his presidential campaign in January after a poor showing in the caucuses in Iowa. Mr. Dodd had staked a great deal on the state, both politically and personally. He moved there with his wife and two young daughters from their home in Washington (in addition to his East Haddam home). He invested in building an extensive political organization there, with 13 offices and a large staff. But in the end, he was unable to generate much support, picking up less than 1 percent of the Democratic vote. 
 He is not lingering on the loss, though, preferring instead to push ahead with what he sees as the major issues coming before Congress. 
 Perhaps the most pressing issue he says he must focus on is the need for the federal government to provide assistance to individual homeowners caught in the upheaval of the mortgage industry and the overall downturn in the housing market. 
 After holding a series of hearings on the issue and then conducting negotiations with Republicans, many of whom are wary of government intervention, Mr. Dodd was able to make some progress. In late May, he announced that he had won support from key Republicans on the Senate banking committee for a bill that would help hundreds of thousands of homeowners in danger of foreclosure by expanding the availability of government-insured mortgages. 
 The Bush administration, which previously said it would oppose legislation to rescue troubled homeowners, suggested that it was willing to consider Mr. Dodd's bill because it did not contain a direct cost to taxpayers. 
 While that is welcome news, Mr. Dodd has clearly grown impatient with the concerns that some Republicans have voiced over providing a federal bailout to individuals who the Republicans argue may have borrowed recklessly. 
 Mr. Dodd says that while Republicans have dragged their feet on helping average Americans, the administration and the Federal Reserve rushed to assemble a package that prevented the collapse of Bear Stearns, the investment bank. 
 ''Where's the same energy, where's the same hustle?'' he asked, referring to the federal government's response to the plight of individual homeowners. ''I don't see it.'' 
 Mr. Dodd has also turned his attention to what he sees as a potential crisis in the student loan industry stemming from the turmoil in the credit markets. Already, he says, 15 lenders have pulled out of the student-loan business, meaning that there is about $8 billion less to lend to students. He has already convened a hearing on the Hill to determine what, if anything, Congress can do to prevent students from going through the kind of crisis that homeowners are facing.
 At the same time, with fuel costs rising, Mr. Dodd has also sought to generate support in Congress for expanding the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program, known as LIHEAP, to provide subsidies for more families. 
 As head of the Senate Health Education Labor and Pensions Subcommittee on Children and Families, he has convened a hearing to examine what effect the cost of home heating fuel is having on Americans. 
 The program is important in Connecticut, where 98,000 families received subsidies last winter. In fact, Mr. Dodd invited a woman from Hartford who is raising her three grandchildren to appear before his subcommittee to discuss the difficulties she has paying fuel costs despite support from the federal fuel program. 
 Finally, Mr. Dodd is also planning to take up a fight that he admits is going to be difficult: expanding the Family and Medical Leave Act, a law he helped enact in 1993 that gives people with family emergencies as many as 12 unpaid weeks off work.
 Mr. Dodd, one of the authors of the original legislation, has proposed additional benefits, including the establishment of paid leave for parents of newborns or for people caring for a seriously ill family member.
 Mr. Dodd says that his proposal for paid leave will likely draw more opposition than the stiff resistance that the original legislation faced from the business community, whose leaders expressed concerns about the cost of the legislation.
 ''I've got a mountain to climb,'' he said. ''I could have never passed paid leave 15 years ago.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AT WORK: Senator Christopher J. Dodd is behind measures addressing student loan problems, the mortgage crisis and fuel costs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(CT 1)
CAMPAIGN MATTERS: Senator Christopher J. Dodd, with his wife, Jackie, at left, thanked his supporters in East Haddam in January after leaving the race. Below, Mr. Dodd with Senator Barack Obama in Cleveland after endorsing Mr. Obama for president.
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK BOWMER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (E 5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); STUDENT LOANS (67%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (66%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (50%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TED KENNEDY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008



392 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosures and the Election

 BODY:
There is much still uncertain about the future course of the home mortgage debacle, but one thing is now clear: Congress and President Bush have done so little for so long that they will never manage an effective response. Like so many other problems, the foreclosure crisis will be dumped on the next president and the next Congress.
 The bad lending of the bubble years continues to wreak havoc. Foreclosures were up sharply again in May, and the continuing surge in defaults shows that more are in the pipeline. The pain goes beyond the ruin of individual families. Foreclosures are causing house values to plummet, local tax revenues to decline and credit to remain tight. 
 That, in turn, is prolonging the housing slump and deepening the broader economic slowdown, threatening the well-being not only of lenders and borrowers whose greed and misjudgment provoked the crisis, but of everyone. And, still, there has been no cogent response from Congress or the Bush administration.
 The current Congress may manage to pass a foreclosure aid bill before July 4, which, at best, would prevent up to 500,000 foreclosures over the next few years. That would be an accomplishment. But even if the bill passes -- and if President Bush signs it -- the potential relief will not prevent or confine the damage from what is shaping up to be millions of foreclosures continuing well into the next administration. 
 That makes it important to judge what the two presumptive nominees, Senators John McCain and Barack Obama, are pledging to do to avert foreclosures. 
 In a major foray into the issue last March, Mr. McCain aligned himself with those who argue that people who took on more debt than they could afford deserve no government help. He was criticized for his mean-spiritedness and for missing the economic point: whether the borrowers deserve help or not, their problems should not be allowed to damage the broader economy and everyone in it. 
 Mr. McCain relented in April, but his new stance represented mostly a political pivot, supporting administration antiforeclosure efforts. One of those, Hope Now, the voluntary mortgage-industry alliance to help troubled borrowers, had its effectiveness called into question last week by a report from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. 
 Mr. McCain also proposed foreclosure aid similar to the legislation that Congress is now considering. That misses the point too, because what Congress is proposing is not enough. Indeed, in a recent interview with the trade publication American Banker, Mr. McCain's top economic adviser said that the candidate's approach is, ''Let's watch, let's monitor, let's just see what this is going to be like.''
 Mr. Obama apparently has seen enough and has consistently pledged a broader range of initiatives. They include allowing bankrupt homeowners to have the terms of their mortgages modified under court protection, arguably the most effective way to stanch foreclosures. It is also the proposal most reviled by the mortgage industry and, as a result, has been rejected out of hand by the Bush administration. 
 Unlike the Bush administration, Mr. Obama also supports aid to localities to help them buy up foreclosed properties -- a proposal that the president wrongly portrays as a handout to lenders or speculators. Actually, it is a way to protect communities from a buildup of unsold homes, which pummels the value of surrounding homes.
 The foreclosure crisis is getting worse, and Mr. McCain's policy of wait-and-see invites the worst. There is no guarantee of success in Mr. Obama's proposals, but there is a quality of leadership, sorely lacking on the issue now, and a reasonable chance of success. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (63%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



393 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHECK POINT; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: When a Populist Stance Meets a Complex Issue

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
As he campaigns against what he describes as unfair foreign trade deals, Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee, often singles out Japan and especially South Korea for criticism. Both countries, he complains, have erected ''all kinds of restrictions and barriers'' to shut out American products, including beef and automobiles.
 ''You can't get beef into Japan and Korea, even though, obviously, we have the highest safety standards of anybody, but they don't want to have that competition from U.S. producers,'' Mr. Obama said last month in a speech to farmers in South Dakota. Last week, near Detroit, he asserted that ''if South Korea is selling hundreds of thousands of cars to the United States and we can only sell less than 5,000 in South Korea, something is wrong.'' 
 Many scientists, public health experts and consumer advocates in the United States and abroad, though, have suggested that American beef exports are lagging at least in part because United States safety standards are lax compared with those in Europe and East Asia. 
 As for automobiles, Korea's auto imports have grown nearly tenfold in the past decade as trade barriers have eased, and Japanese and European car manufacturers have been more successful at capitalizing on those opportunities than their American competitors. 
 Mr. Obama's criticisms, voiced as part of a populist message on the campaign trail, come as Congress is weighing a free trade agreement with South Korea, recently concluded by the Bush administration. Mr. Obama opposes the accord; in a May 22 letter to Mr. Bush, he said, ''Approval of the agreement as negotiated would give Korean exports essentially unfettered access to the U.S. market and would eliminate our best opportunity for obtaining genuinely reciprocal market access to one of the world's largest economies.'' 
 Austan Goolsbee, an economic adviser to Mr. Obama, said of beef exports, ''No one ever puts up a nontariff barrier and describes it as that.''
 ''Two facts are not in dispute,'' Mr. Goolsbee continued. ''Japan and Korea retain rules that prevent imports of U.S. beef, rules that other countries don't have, and in countries that don't have those rules, U.S. beef exports have returned to higher levels than before. So you've got to be highly suspicious at the outset.''
 In South Korea, the beef issue in particular has become the flashpoint for recent protests against the government. In hopes of gaining American approval of the accord, President Lee Myung-bak has agreed to eliminate an 8 percent tariff on American cars and to relax some safety standards on beef imports. Thousands of people took to the streets to demand that Mr. Lee step down or spurn the trade agreement.
 Five years ago, South Korea, which has 50 million people, was the third-largest importer of American beef and Japan the first, in both volume and dollar value, according to the United States Meat Export Federation. But an episode of the brain-wasting ailment known as mad cow disease in the United States late in 2003 led both nations, as well as some others, to forbid imports of American beef.
 Japan, which allows imports of foreign beef only if the spinal cords, vertebrae, brains and bone marrow have been removed, lifted the ban two years later, after a food safety commission ruled that American safety measures were adequate. But the prohibition was reinstated in early 2006, after a shipment from the United States was found to contain some of the banned material.
 That prompted a contrite apology by the American government, acknowledging that it was at fault. ''This is an unacceptable failure on our part to meet the requirements of our agreement with Japan,'' the secretary of agriculture, Mike Johanns, said then.
 The prohibition has since also been lifted in Korea, though Japan and Korea continue to impose restrictions on the age of slaughtered cattle, which the United States finds onerous and has sought to modify. In the interim, however, Australian beef producers, who have been able to meet the rigorous sanitary conditions of their East Asian neighbors, have increased their market share at America's expense. 
 As for automobile exports to Korea, the situation also appears to be more complicated than Mr. Obama's remarks on the campaign trail would suggest. At the end of the last decade, that trade was visibly skewed, with Korea exporting more than 400,000 cars to the United States but importing in total 5,675, only 739 of which were American made, according to the American Chamber of Commerce in Korea. 
 Since 2003, however, Korea's imports of foreign cars have nearly tripled, to 53,390 last year, according to statistics compiled by the Korean Automobile Importers and Distributors Association. Of that total, only 6,235 were made by Ford, General Motors or Chrysler, giving the Big Three an 11.7 percent share of the import market, compared with 16.3 percent five years ago.
 One reason for the decline may be a longstanding engine displacement tax levied on automobiles by motor size, which appears to have benefited Japanese and European carmakers like Honda, BMW and Volvo. The United States considers the tax an unfair trade barrier and has sought to have it and other requirements ''streamlined,'' but defenders describe it as part of a Korean government strategy to reduce consumption of ever-more-costly imported gasoline and related carbon emissions. 
 ''You can say that people in Korea don't like American cars, but then you have to say why in nearby places people do seem to like them,'' Mr. Goolsbee said. He added, ''The Koreans have designed a system that will prevent competition from a segment of the market that is different from what they produce, and that is a nontariff barrier.''
 The Association of International Automobile Manufacturers, trade group based in Washington, declined requests for an interview about Korean auto imports, as did the Korean Embassy. But in a letter sent to Democratic senators in 2006, the trade group noted that only one of Korea's car manufacturers, Hyundai, is Korean-owned and that ''some of the low export volume to Korea can also be attributed to G.M.'s investment in General Motors Daewoo Auto and Technology.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, is opposed to a free trade agreement with South Korea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); BEEF (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); MEATS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (72%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (72%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (58%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



394 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: As Talks Stall to Save the OTB, Horseplayers Worry About Getting Shut Out

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA; Nate Schweber contributed reporting.

 BODY:
There were the usual utterances of triumph and defeat, elation and heartbreak, and there was also this: worry. With time slipping away before Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's threatened closing of the city's Off-Track Betting Corporation, and no agreement between the city and state in sight, the thrill of uncertainty that usually accompanies horse wagering was buffeted by the sobering question of whether Sunday will be the last day of simulcast racing at the parlors. 
 ''People are on pins and needles,'' said Steve Simmons, 45, a security specialist for an OTB parlor on the Upper West Side. ''We know we're good till Sunday, but we don't know what's going to happen Monday. They said, there's a possibility we may be locked out.'' 
 Talks between the Bloomberg administration, the office of Gov. David A. Paterson and the State Legislature continued on Saturday, but progress was stalled over a key economic issue. The city wants to retain about $19 million it receives annually from surcharges on winning bets, while the state, which has proposed taking over the parlors, says it should get that money. 
 ''It's like taking over a store that someone doesn't want to run anymore,'' Governor Paterson said in an interview on Saturday, ''and then they turn around and ask you for the profit.'' 
 At stake are some 1,500 jobs ranging from tellers and secretaries to branch managers, accountants and executives. The governor said the state had a ''moral obligation'' to keep the parlors open and aimed to pass legislation on Sunday to do so. 
 The city's OTB parlors generate about $1 billion of the $2.7 billion that is bet on horse racing in the state each year. The profits are split among the city, the state and the racing industry through a distribution formula that city officials say has increasingly left the city unable to cover the cost of running the parlors. 
 At the urging of Mayor Bloomberg, the city's OTB Corporation, which runs the parlors, voted in February to close the parlors at the end of business Sunday if a new arrangement was not reached. 
 The negotiations took an odd twist on Friday when Mr. Paterson held a news conference announcing an agreement to have the state take over the parlors. But the announcement appeared to catch Mayor Bloomberg and his staff by surprise. A short time later, the mayor issued a statement saying that he still intended to close the parlors unless ''substantial legal and economic issues'' were resolved. 
 Governor Paterson acknowledged on Saturday that he should have said the financial issues had yet to be worked out. But he expressed surprise at the mayor's objections, saying he thought the state was doing the city a favor. 
 ''If I misunderstood, I apologize,'' he said. ''Since he said he'd shut it down, we thought we were helping.''
 Jim Anderson, a spokesman for the mayor, said that Mr. Bloomberg has ''been clear from the beginning that there needs to be a long-term solution that benefits the public -- not just the racing industry -- and that if OTB is operating in New York City, it should actually benefit the public here in New York City.'' 
 Governor Paterson's proposal on Friday did not do that, Mr. Anderson said.
 At least one lawmaker, Assemblyman J. Gary Pretlow, a Westchester Democrat and chairman of the Assembly's Committee on Racing and Wagering, signaled a strong reluctance on Friday to let the city keep the surcharge revenue in a state takeover. Mr. Pretlow said the state would ''just take'' the parlors if the city refused to give them up. 
 But Governor Paterson struck a more moderate tone on Saturday, saying the state would do whatever it would take to keep the parlors open and that the finances could be worked out later. 
 ''Finances and money, that's fungible, we can work that out,'' he said, adding that he did not ''see this as a difficult situation.'' 
 On Saturday, the usual assortment of elderly men in Panama hats and baseball caps and younger men in shorts and T-shirts gathered at an OTB on the Upper West Side that is squeezed between a cupcake shop and a Latin-Chinese restaurant. Most were well aware that their days of betting there could be near an end. 
 ''I think it's a stupid mistake,'' said Vincent Bochicchio, 72, a retired Army veteran who said he visits the parlor about three times a week. ''You know what happens if the city closes this, they'll go to the illegal bookies.'' 
 Keeping bets out of the hands of illegal bookmakers and organized crime was exactly why the OTB was established in 1970. 
 Mr. Bochicchio said that in ''this whole stupid mess,'' the people whom he felt most sorry for ''are the people who work here.'' 
 Indeed, the topsy-turvy negotiations and the threat of losing their jobs has led to anxiety for many of the people who run the operation. 
 ''I have a daughter starting college in the fall,'' said Judy Jackson, 53, a branch manager of the Upper West Side parlor who started with the OTB as a cashier 24 years ago. 
 ''Yesterday we were all cheering when we saw the governor on television saying we were going to stay open,'' she said. Only after many of them got home, she said, did they learn there was no deal after all.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At an OTB parlor on the Upper West Side, customers are advised to cash winning tickets before the close of business on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITIES (78%); HORSE RACING (77%); HORSES (76%); GAMING (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); LEGISLATION (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); DAVID PATERSON (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



395 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Obama Goes One on One, Battling 'Just a Speechmaker' Label

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN; John M. Broder contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Standing before Senator Barack Obama at a campaign event Thursday in Wisconsin, a young man asked him earnestly, ''What does life mean to you?''
 ''Oh, goodness,'' Mr. Obama began. ''Well, you know, I, uh, you don't know where to start on a question like that.''
 He recovered and segued into a long, soul-searching answer about the self-centeredness of his youth, his two daughters, his wife and God. 
 Oprah Winfrey would have been proud. 
 Mr. Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee, has spent the first week of the general election campaign getting up close and personal. Fighting the perception that he is only a razzle-dazzle speechmaker who is aloof in small settings, Mr. Obama devoted most of his time on the campaign trail in the past week to intimate appearances, hosting round-table discussions with the public and touring a hospital in St. Louis, a retirement facility in Columbus, Ohio, and an all-girls charter school in Chicago. 
 He has also been showing a more pugnacious side, commenting at a Philadelphia fund-raiser Friday that he was prepared for a fight with Republicans, saying, ''If they bring a knife to the fight, we bring a gun.'' That line, from ''The Untouchables,'' led the campaign of his Republican opponent, Senator John McCain of Arizona, to cry foul and to suggest that hopes for an elevated dialogue were in danger.
 But out on the campaign trail, Mr. Obama, of Illinois, was warmer and cozier, sometimes adopting the Bill Clintonesque I-feel-your-pain message used to such great effect by his wife, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, in swing states. 
 In Pennsylvania, Mr. Obama reminisced about listening to show tunes in music classes as a child, in the days before many schools trimmed arts education programs. 
 And he mentioned his family again and again, warming up audiences with stories about his daughters, his mother-in-law and his late mother. (Michelle Obama, campaigning with her husband in Ohio, rounded out the family picture with an affectionate mention of Mr. Obama's maternal grandparents, ''Toot'' and ''Gramps.'') 
 On Saturday, Mr. Obama shed his tie for a campaign event near Philadelphia, where he first met privately with a local family struggling to pay its bills, and then spoke to supporters about rising gasoline prices. 
 ''This is good, this is a relatively small group,'' Mr. Obama said, his eyes scanning the room approvingly, ''which means I can get through a decent percentage of the questions that are asked.'' 
 Mr. Obama's chief strategist, David Axelrod, said large rallies in the primaries had energized the candidate and his supporters, but were also on some level ''isolating'' lectures rather than conversations. In the general election, Mr. Obama wanted to interact more intimately with voters. But Mr. Axelrod also said he expected Mr. Obama would return to the large-audience format this summer and fall.
 Having finally shaken himself loose of his opponents for the Democratic nomination, Mr. Obama began the general election campaign with a two-week economic tour that sent him through swing states, to Missouri, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. (A trip to Cedar Rapids, Iowa, was canceled because of the flooding there.) 
 All week, Mr. Obama has kept a light public schedule, typically with one campaign event each day, sometimes followed by a quick stop or two at a fund-raiser in the evening. 
 Many of his nights have been spent in his hometown, Chicago. On Thursday evening, he hung out with old friends and supporters who paid thousands of dollars a head to attend a fund-raiser at a home in the upscale North Side neighborhood of Lincoln Park. 
 The week was not without its bumps. Mr. Obama's campaign was wounded by the swift political evisceration and subsequent resignation of a top adviser, James A. Johnson, the head of his vice-presidential vetting committee, who stepped down on Wednesday to try to quell a protest about his business activities. 
 But Mr. Obama had some glimpses of favorable general-election terrain in battleground states, especially Wisconsin, where he arrived for a campaign event on the same day a new poll showed him with a 13-point lead over Mr. McCain. (The next day's Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reported that Mr. Obama had brought a ''fierce populist message'' to the state.)
 A participant in a round-table discussion about credit in Chicago, Rosa Figueroa, who was driven into bankruptcy by credit card debt after her divorce, said in an interview afterward: ''I think he understands the need for change. A lot of families are going through what I went through.''
 Ms. Figueroa said he had quickly put her at ease when they met before the event. ''I was not afraid of him,'' she said. ''I was afraid of the media. He's just very warm and comforting, an average Joe.''
 Things did not go as flawlessly at a town-hall-style meeting on Saturday in Wayne, Pa. Picking an audience member for the final question of the day, Mr. Obama called out, ''The young lady in the Coca-Cola T-shirt.''
 ''It says 'recycling,' '' she corrected him. 
 ''Oh,'' he replied, shrugging. ''I'm getting old.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama meeting with Benjamin and Barbara Ellis and sons, Price, 5, left, and Brayton, 6, Saturday in Wayne, Pa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GRANDPARENTS (72%); MUSIC (62%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (52%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); OPRAH WINFREY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (87%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (55%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (87%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008



396 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON PAR WITH BILL PENNINGTON; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: As Open Goes Public, Many Players Do, Too

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
It is midafternoon on a Friday, and the fairways and greens of the Blue Hill Golf Course 30 miles north of New York City are alive with golfers. In their faces, you see excitement, even glee. It is an 80-degree June day, and cars are streaming up the driveway to Blue Hill's century-old stone clubhouse.
 The parking spaces fill one by one, the car trunks immediately popping open. And beside those trunks, in a chorus line of sorts, golfers perform that inimitable dance: the one-legged, putting-on-the-golf-shoe hop.
 It's as funny as it is soothing. There are a lot of mores in golf, and this custom is not appropriate in every setting. But here, it is a welcome sight. 
 At moments like these -- parking lot teeming, golf course busy and restaurant grill awaiting a happy hour onslaught -- you wonder if anyone is in the office complexes that line the nearby roads. Is anyone at work?
 There has been much hand-wringing lately about a decline in the number of golf rounds played in America. And indeed, some high-end golf clubs and resorts are doggedly in pursuit of the recreational golfer who doesn't seem to have the free time to hang around the country club the way the golfers of a generation ago did. But the affordable, quality municipal golf courses, as measured by those I surveyed in the metropolitan New York area, are alive and well.
 Torrey Pines Golf Course, the public facility in San Diego that is hosting this year's United States Open, has been a symbolic location for a tournament sometimes referred to as the People's Open. The event will return to the municipally owned Bethpage Black on Long Island next year. Golf in much of America, meanwhile, may be more open to more people than ever before.
 If, for example, you live in Orangetown, N.Y., the sprawling municipality that owns Blue Hill, and purchase an annual park permit for $50, it will cost you $25 to play 18 holes on weekdays and $30 on weekends (without a cart). Nonresidents pay about $20 more. But these rates are typical. Indeed, in other parts of the country, public golf is probably a better bargain.
 Still, within 50 miles of New York City are dozens of golf courses that represent a good value. If you are a New York State resident, you can play at Bethpage Black for $50 on weekdays and test its respected companion layout, the Red Course, for $36. Not far away, the greens fees for the Red Course at Eisenhower Park are roughly the same if you are a Nassau County resident (though the course is closed until July 1 because it is host to a Champions Tour event June 26-28). 
 Connecticut is home to a number of publicly owned courses that are similarly economical, like the quirky but entertaining Oak Hills in Norwalk and the oft-honored Richter Park in Danbury. In New Jersey, it is more of the same at two scenic courses: Sunset Valley in Kinnelon and Hominy Hill in Colts Neck.
 New York City, not surprisingly, offers an assortment of good choices, like Dyker Beach in Brooklyn, La Tourette in Staten Island and Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx.
 There is no secret to their success. Go walk their fairways -- they are fun to play, accessible and full of people happily tugging on their pull carts. The golf hazards are penal but not treacherous. If you hit a ball into the woods, you will probably find it and have a way out of trouble. That is usually by design.
 ''We make sure the woods are more sparse and not dense,'' said James Stewart, the head P.G.A. professional at Blue Hill. ''And we manicure the areas under the trees so the rough is not too high. It helps the speed of play. It keeps everyone moving instead of spending all their time looking for the ball or trying to figure out how to get out of the woods.''
 Blue Hill, once a private estate, has big, old trees and wide greens that are not as forgiving as they seem. There are sweeping views of Lake Tappan and the Hudson Highlands. The demographic is decidedly mixed: men, women, children and seniors. Together, on Blue Hill's 27 holes, they will play nearly 70,000 rounds of golf this year.
 ''The value golf courses are supporting golf right now,'' said Jay Mottola, the executive director of the Metropolitan Golf Association. ''Those places are still very busy.''
 Players are lucky to have all styles of golf courses, from high-end resorts to traditional clubs, and newer spectacular sites that continually impress with their architectural beauty. Together, they make up golf's delightfully varied universe. It remains a privilege to play the exclusive, top-ranked golf courses, just as there are specific advantages to belonging to a golf club -- advantages that millions, myself included, enjoy.
 But there is something about the local, quality municipal layouts that are close to golf's heart. Every player should visit one regularly. It's a refresher course in what gives the game its appeal. Because it's not really about the makeup of the sand in the bunkers or the Stimpmeter reading of the greens. It's about getting the ball in the hole and trying to do it with a bunch of other people inspired by the same goal. When finished, you sit back in a restful bar, probably with a window onto the final green, so you can watch others trying to do the same thing.
 By the way, when you visit, you can change your shoes in the locker room or restroom if you like. It's perfectly acceptable.
 But your legs -- and your sense of humor -- won't be warmed up when you stand on the first tee.
 A Tip That Involves Choking? One Pro Swears by It
 The teaching pro Del Snyder, who has been helping golfers play better since the 1950s, has an easy cure for short-game woes. It's not what club you hit, but where you grip that club.
 ''Not enough players, even good players, choke down on the golf club handle when hitting a shot from 50 yards and in,'' said Snyder, who is in his 32nd year as a club pro at the Golden Horseshoe Golf Club in Williamsburg, Va. ''The closer your hands are to the ball, obviously the more control you have over where that ball is going. You can reduce the size of the swing and feel the club head better. It just makes sense.
 ''But day after day, I see amateurs standing very upright hitting chips and pitches and wondering why they don't have any touch. It's simple: shorten the club, get more touch.''
 A Good Work Out Spoiled
 Golf is good for your health and can extend your life by five years, according to a recently released Swedish medical study. And better golfers seem to live the longest. Data collected from 300,000 Swedish golfers showed that the death rate in golfers was significantly lower than it was for the rest of the population. The lowest death rates were reported among those with the lowest golf handicap. Researchers reasoned that because the game is good for you, playing it more often (typical behavior for better golfers) yields even more benefit.
 Leaders of the study said the health advantages were linked to players' being outside in fresh air for several hours and walking briskly between shots.
 And therein lies the rub for many North American golfers who like to ride in a golf cart or are required to use one at a cart-only golf course. Two studies released last week, in Alabama and Ohio, reported that injuries sustained while riding in a golf cart were on the rise.
 The moral of the story is that golfers should walk if possible. Or perhaps that they should move to Sweden. The actor Bill Murray, a golfing comedy icon, was stopped by the police while driving a golf cart in downtown Stockholm late one night last year. The police apparently feared for his safety.
 Five Welcome Comments
 1. After your first tee shot: ''You been working out?''
 2. On each tee: ''You're still up.''
 3. With wonder: ''It looked like it went in the hole!''
 4. On the 18th tee: ''Is that the same ball you hit off the first tee?''
 5. With some disgust: ''You know that the winner buys the first round.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: While expensive golf clubs proliferate, some players are falling for the value of quality municipal layouts like Blue Hill Golf Course in Orangetown, N.Y.
The starter's shed at Blue Hill, where nearly 70,000 rounds are expected to be played this year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZY ALLMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Bill Murray: Dressed for a long life. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT GALBRAITH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008



397 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: India's Growing Gap Between Rich and Poor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Inside Gate, India's Good Life; Outside, the Servants' Slums'' (front page, June 9):
 Rampant privatization, government-supported out-of-control corporate power, the destruction of the social safety net and the blindfolded emulation of the Western socioeconomic model have all contributed to the increasing chasm between the rich and poor in India. 
 It will be hard to take seriously India's aspiration to be the next superpower until it shows significant improvement in controlling its population growth, poverty and pollution; betters its abysmal record on corruption, health care, education and human rights; and finds a way to bring the ugly disparity between rich and poor into balance. 
 As an Indian-American with deep home ties, I am saddened by how India's leaders have pushed India's once-glorified concepts of morality-based equality and prosperity into oblivion. 
 The globalization of capital and the work force has made a relatively small percentage of the Indian population happy. But at the same time, millions are in misery, both in cities and villages, with no hope for a better future.
 Partha Banerjee Brooklyn, June 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 India's rapid strides in economic progress are the cynosure of the developing and developed world today. As a naturalized American citizen who was born and educated in India, I am proud of the spectacular achievements India has made in technology and manufacturing in the relatively short span of its 60 years of independence. 
 But during my frequent visits to India, I am concerned to see the two sides of this growth. The disparity between the burgeoning middle class and the poor is widening at an alarming rate. 
 Notwithstanding the sharp increase in newly minted dollar billionaires and millionaires in India, the majority of the people who have been at the lowest rung on the economic ladder are still struggling to make ends meet. The high rate of illiteracy, poverty and disease and the lack of empowerment have made their present economic condition almost chronic.
 Unless the fruits of the economic boom fired by globalization are responsibly invested in social projects like public education and health care that will penetrate into the villages and the interior of India, the gulf between the rich and the poor will widen further and create two worlds right across from each other.
 Atul M. Karnik Woodside, Queens, June 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); CORRUPTION (70%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (70%); LITERACY RATES (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008



398 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; RED HOOK JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Awaiting a Big Blue Box and a New World

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

 BODY:
When she moved to her apartment five years ago, Perian Carson's small corner of Red Hook in Brooklyn looked much different. An abandoned Civil War-era warehouse sat a few blocks away on Van Brunt Street. Nearby, along the cobblestones on Beard Street, she could see the remnants of the old Todd Shipyards, where ships were repaired in a massive graving dock. 
 It was a drowsy neighborhood where one could smell the harbor, a close-knit community where people signed for one another's mail. Ms. Carson tended a small garden on the sidewalk near her building.
 Today, the graving dock and many of the cobblestones are paved over, and from her garden, Ms. Carson sees something else: an enormous blue and yellow Ikea superstore, all 346,000 square feet of it, rising along the waterfront. The old warehouse is now a Fairway supermarket, with luxury rentals above. 
 ''I'm at the fulcrum here,'' Ms. Carson said one evening, as she tended to the lilies and goldenrod in her garden. ''It's so much at once.''
 After years of delays and bruising fights with local activists, the newest branch of Ikea, the Swedish furniture store, will open on Wednesday -- another signpost, for better or worse, in Red Hook's transformation. Thousands of visitors, most of them in cars, are expected to stream into the neighborhood every day.
 As the store, known for its selection of relatively inexpensive furniture and the Swedish meatballs for sale in its cafeteria, prepared to open its doors, residents and people who work in the neighborhood expressed varying assessments of what Ikea would mean for Red Hook.
 For some, it was an occasion to be celebrated; for others, a fine excuse to leave town.
 Some people said they would line up to be among Ikea's first shoppers (and win free prizes, like an Ektorp sofa, that the store is offering). Others said it was a moment to reflect and mourn New York's vanishing industrial landscape.
 For the residents hired by Ikea, Wednesday is simply the start of a new job. For those who fought long and vigorously against the store, the day is shaping up to be a funeral. 
 Many people sounded much like Ms. Carson, slightly anxious and unsure about what would happen when the huge blue building finally rumbled to life.
 Ikea is the latest sign of change in Red Hook, for decades a working-class neighborhood that depended on the shipping industry and which declined in the 1950s and '60s as container ports opened in New Jersey. 
 As it turned from its industrial past, parts of Red Hook became a haven for artists, and more recently, a lure for developers. Most of the area's residents live in the Red Hook Houses, a public housing development that the neighborhood's resurgence has barely touched. Income levels for the people who live there remain low, and unemployment levels are high.
 Ikea has been battling to open its first store in New York City for years. Its supporters said the store would create jobs and help other businesses in Red Hook. Ikea also said it would develop the dilapidated shipyards into an esplanade, allowing people to enjoy more of the waterfront. Opponents said traffic to and from the store would overwhelm the Brooklyn neighborhoods surrounding it and would mean the destruction of historic shipyards.
 In the end, a new esplanade did come into being and the Todd Shipyards were destroyed. 
 In tiny Red Hook, everyone had a stake in the arguments, including Ian Marvy, one of the founders and the executive director of Added Value, a community farm on a concrete lot directly across Beard Street from Ikea. ''There's real apprehension,'' he said during an interview at his farm on Saturday. ''Manhattan's population doubles in a day, and we all know the impact. You're talking about tripling the population of this neighborhood.''
 Estimates of the extra traffic vary widely, ranging from a few thousand visitors on weekdays to more than 14,000 cars a day on weekends.
 All year long, students work and learn at Mr. Marvy's farm, crossing the roads that lead to it, thoroughfares that will now be busy with furniture buyers. But Mr. Marvy also saw an opportunity, and he has spoken to the general manager at Ikea about collaborating, perhaps on a composting system. ''We've got to make lemonade,'' Mr. Marvy said.
 The store presented other opportunities as well, and the days before its opening were training days for many residents who had found jobs at the store.
 Ikea had promised to hire local residents first. A spokesman for the company, Joseph Roth, citing Ikea's policy of not providing demographic data on employees -- along with what he called ''Swedish modesty'' -- would not say how many Red Hook residents had been hired. During a press tour of the Ikea last week, several employees said they lived in the neighborhood. 
 Lenora Richardson and her daughter were both hired, but Ms. Richardson, who lives in the Red Hook Houses, decided not to take the job, preferring to stay at home with her 14-year-old son. ''Keeping up children in the projects is hard,'' she said, as she walked her daughter's dogs, Boo Boo and Ja, along the new promenade that hugs Ikea. ''It's going to be a madhouse,'' she said. ''But it's exciting.'' 
 The Brooklyn Ikea features picture windows -- unusual for a big-box store -- with views of the Statue of Liberty. Shuttle buses will carry shoppers from local subway stops, and visitors from Manhattan can take a free water taxi from Pier 11 in Lower Manhattan. The cafeteria serves Ikea's Scandinavian cuisine, including herring, meatballs and apple cake. The six-and-a-half-acre esplanade has more than 9,000 plants, along with benches and bollards from the shipyard.
 The store's vast parking lot has room for 1,400 cars. In recent weeks, though, Ikea announced it was leasing space on an adjacent property for extra parking. Mr. Roth said Ikea always looked for overflow parking when opening a store, but the announcement had not reassured residents worried about the traffic.
 Naren Budhkar, 38, said he was concerned that the store could mean the end of Red Hook as an out-of-the-way enclave, as if surrounded by hills. The barriers are not natural: no subway lines run there, and Red Hook is separated from other parts of Brooklyn by the water and by Hamilton Avenue, the service road that runs under the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway. ''It will change for the worse,'' said Mr. Budhkar, a musician who plays the tabla, an Indian drum.
 But German Mendez, who runs a store called the Red Hook Bike Shop, called Ikea a blessing. ''All these people in the new houses, they don't like it,'' he said, as he inspected a customer's tire. ''They gave us back the pier,'' he said, referring to Ikea. But one of his customers, Elizabeth Lyons, took a slightly different view. ''Now this is Mayberry,'' she said, ''with a big blue box.''
 Monica Byrne, one of the owners of Tini, a bar on Van Brunt Street, also was generally supportive of the store's presence. ''If it was a Wal-Mart, I'd be protesting,'' she said. ''This could be a really good thing.'' 
 In the days before, people on foot or on bike took advantage of the new esplanade. A man who identified himself as a video artist, and who said he did not want his name published because he is ''rather well-known,'' was shooting video footage of buildings near the Ikea one evening. ''I'm taking a picture before the funeral,'' he said. ''In a week from now, the deserted streets won't be deserted.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Looking across Beard Street in Red Hook from Annabelle's bar and restaurant to the Ikea store. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BESS GREENBERG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP (pg. B2) Map showing the Ikea site in Red Hook, Brooklyn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); SHIPBUILDING (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (75%); FURNITURE STORES (74%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%)

COMPANY: INGKA HOLDING BV (85%); VIGOR INDUSTRIAL LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (85%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (85%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008



399 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
SIGNALS ON THE ECONOMY Economic reports will include the Producer Price Index for May, housing starts for May, the current account deficit for the first quarter and industrial production and capacity utilization for May (Tuesday); and the Philadelphia Fed manufacturing index for June and the Conference Board's leading economic indicators for May (Thursday). 
 EARNINGS REPORTS Financial companies will dominate the earnings calendar this week, including Lehman Brothers (Monday), Goldman Sachs (Tuesday) and Morgan Stanley (Wednesday). Other reports will come from Adobe Systems (Monday); Best Buy (Tuesday); FedEx (Wednesday); Circuit City and J. M. Smucker (Thursday).
 THE REGULATORS The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, will speak on health care and economic competitiveness at the Senate Finance Committee's health reform summit (Monday).
 Officials from the United States Treasury and the Chinese government will discuss economic issues (Tuesday and Wednesday).
 The vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, Donald L. Kohn, testifies at a Senate Banking subcommittee hearing on risk management (Thursday).
 ET CETERA United States airline executives will make presentations at a Merrill Lynch conference in New York (Tuesday and Wednesday). The Supreme Court of Canada will hear Bell Canada's appeal of a lower court's decision that prevented a leveraged buyout (Tuesday).
 Bradley Birkenfeld, a former senior UBS banker, is to appear before a Federal District Court judge in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., to enter a guilty plea in a tax evasion investigation (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); TAX FRAUD (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (73%); RISK MANAGEMENT (71%); JUDGES (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); GUILTY PLEAS (67%); TAX LAW (66%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (65%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); ADBE (NASDAQ) (71%); ADB (FRA) (71%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (71%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008



400 of 801 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S ON TODAY

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (HBO) RESOLVED (2008) Until the 1960s high school debate was an art form, a combination of ideas and eloquence. Today debate has evolved into a sport in which students memorize their arguments, employ a specialized jargon and use ''the spread,'' a style of machine-gun delivery at up to 400 words a minute. This documentary from Greg Whiteley follows two socio-economically and stylistically contrasting teams in their quest for the championship at the University of California-Berkeley Invitational Tournament and as their members seek admission to elite universities. The documentary also seeks to illuminate the racial and class divide in American education. Past debaters, including Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. of the Supreme Court, the actor Josh Lucas, the journalists Jane Pauley and Juan Williams, and the political adviser Karl Rove, discuss the value of their oratory skills.
 11 A.M. (ABC) THE VIEW Glenn Close discusses politics; Catherine Bell and Kim Delaney talk about their hit series, ''Army Wives''; and Cyndi Lauper performs. 
 8 P.M. (ABC) THE BACHELORETTE: DeANNA TELLS ALL DeAnna Pappas assesses the competition for her affection, narrates outtakes from previous episodes and reveals a few, um, details. At 9 she takes the remaining six bachelors to a Palm Springs, Calif., resort, where she'll choose the four men whose families she would like to meet.
 8 P.M. (ABC Family) THE MIDDLEMAN One minute a temp (Natalie Morales, above, with Matt Keesler) finds herself in the middle of a science experiment gone wrong; the next she is the colleague of a covert hero (Mr. Keeslar) fighting otherworldly evil. This new series was created by Javier Grillo-Marxuach, a producer of ''Lost'' and ''Medium,'' based on his graphic novels for Viper Comics.
 9 P.M. (History) HOW LIFE BEGAN This two-hour exploration of evolution uses animation, interviews with specialists, expeditions to exotic locations and cutting-edge science to explain how life on Earth transformed from a soup of single cells into trillion-cell organisms like humans. It also imagines how new life could be created.
 9 P.M. (Sundance) TEN MORE GOOD YEARS (2007) They fought for their civil rights in the 1960s. But now, as lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people grow older, they face discrimination from the government and social-service agencies. In this documentary Michael Jacoby profiles four elders who are proudly gay: the photographer and filmmaker James Bidgood; the performance artist Harry Bartron; Miss Major, a witness to the Stonewall uprising; and Ivy Bottini, an activist.
 10 P.M. (13) ANYONE AND EVERYONE (2007) In this documentary from Susan Polis Schutz, a book and greeting-card author, parents recall their reactions to having their teenage and older children reveal their homosexuality.
 10 P.M. (A&E) PSYCHIC KIDS: CHILDREN OF THE PARANORMAL A series devoted to children who profess psychic abilities, starting with girls who say they see ghosts.
 10 P.M. (Showtime) WEEDS The season opens with Nancy (Mary-Louise Parker) heading to the beach with Andy (Justin Kirk) and the boys after she has set their home on fire. She also reunites with her father-in-law (Albert Brooks). Meanwhile Doug (Kevin Nealon) and Dean (Andy Milder) point to Celia (Elizabeth Perkins) as the owner of the grow house.
 10:30 P.M. (Showtime) SECRET DIARY OF A CALL GIRL Billie Piper (''Doctor Who'') splits her personality in this British import to play Hannah, a legal secretary by day, who transforms into Belle, a high-class prostitute by night. And yes, she loves her work. The series is based on the popular ''Belle du Jour'' blog and books, written by a real-life Belle. Some have speculated that the source material is a clever ruse, though Ms. Piper says she has met the young woman on which her character is based.
 11 P.M. (Travel) LIFE'S A TRIP Andrew Anthony continues to make check marks on his list of 20 things he wants to do before he dies by traveling to Los Angeles, Palm Springs and Las Vegas, where he sees what he should add to his regime to extend his years. At 11:30 he visits Kobe in Japan to sample karaoke, sumo and a $700 slice of beef. 
 11 P.M. (13) CHARLIE ROSE A roundtable discussion with the Emanuel brothers: Ari, a talent agent; Ezekiel, a bioethicist; and Rahm, a Democratic United States representative from Illinois. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FAMILY (77%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); DISCRIMINATION (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); ANIMATION (67%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (67%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ALITO (53%); KARL ROVE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008

 
