

201 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Sprawl, Oregon County Makes Deal With Intel to Limit Job Growth

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: HILLSBORO, Ore., June 8

 BODY:
When county officials sat down with the Intel Corporation to develop a package of tax incentives that would keep the state's largest private employer here, the two sides struck a deal that had some fairly standard provisions. Intel would invest up to $12.5 billion in new equipment and plant upgrades over the next 15 years, and the county would grant $200 million in property tax breaks.
And just one more thing, the county asked: Please don't create too many new jobs. 
 In an unusual arrangement that reflects both the flush national economy and Oregon's particular obsession with controlling sprawl, the computer-chip maker has agreed to pay a "growth impact fee" if it exceeds a ceiling of 1,000 new manufacturing jobs on top of the 4,000 it already provides here in Washington County, part of the growing Portland metropolitan area.
Under the package, which county commissioners are expected to approve next week, Intel will pay the county $1,000 per excess worker per year if it surpasses the job limit. County officials say they are thrilled to keep the existing jobs here but really are not interested in a major expansion, which would put new strains on schools, roads, utilities and many other services in an area that is trying to hold on to the patchwork of farms, forests, orchards and other undeveloped space that make it a particularly attractive place to live.
"This whole process was geared toward consolidating our victories," Charles D. Cameron, the Washington County Administrator, said of the negotiations with Intel. "We're more concerned about retaining the economic strength we have rather than creating more." Or, as Walter C. Peck, a county spokesman, put it, if Intel had been "talking about 5,000 new jobs here, the sense is they wouldn't have gotten to first base" with any request for tax breaks.
The idea of providing incentives for a company not to create many more jobs has a certain man-bites-dog quality to it, county and state officials concede. Indeed, they say that the arrangement between Intel and Washington County is the first such deal in Oregon and that they know of none like it anywhere else.
But, the officials say with some pride, if communities are really concerned about battling sprawl, the innovation here could well prove to be a national model for how to achieve sensible, precisely defined growth.
"This is maybe a tenor-of-the-times thing," said Bill Scott, the state's Director of Economic Development. "A few years ago Oregon was really interested in all the jobs we could get. But the political environment has changed. People know there's more than one side to growth. We aren't just interested in jobs, jobs, jobs."
Some local opposition to the growth impact fee has arisen, although not much.
"The hair on the back of my neck stood up on that one," said State Representative Jim Hill, a Republican who is from the area and otherwise supports the tax-break package.
"I think it could send the message to businesses, 'Yeah, you can show up here, but you're going to pay a premium for it,' " Mr. Hill said of the fee provision. "I don't think we can afford to do that. I don't think any community anywhere can sit there and say we're going to pick and choose who we want to arrive."
But Tom Brian, chairman of the county's Board of Commissioners, said: "We're certainly still pro-business. It's just a matter of pace."
Mr. Scott said the package was a creative one that was not in any way a slap at businesses.
"Yes, the message is more complicated, but it's a healthy message," he said. "The idea is we want you to have incentives for investment that also give us ways to deal with livability issues."
Livability is an especially potent issue to many Oregonians, whose passion for protecting their state's natural splendor has been interpreted by some critics as a reflection of a moat mentality and attendant hostility to outsiders. Tom McCall, a staunch environmentalist and legendary Oregon Governor, said memorably in his tourism promotion pitch three decades ago that visitors were welcome, "but for heaven's sake don't come to live here."
And in the Portland area, planners have brought an almost religious zeal to regulating an "urban growth boundary" area of roughly 400 square miles into which almost all development is channeled, while a broad necklace of green space and farmland maintains the region's stunning beauty. It is an anti-sprawl model that other planners from around the country routinely come to research.
So in Washington County, where more than 90 percent of the population of some 400,000 live within the 15 percent of the county lying inside the growth boundary, the desire to limit Intel's job growth has some obvious roots.
Officials at Intel, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., but has more employees here than there, have worked closely with county planners on growth issues over the years, even donating land in order to have a light-rail station placed near their offices and chip plants. They say they are as concerned with livability as anyone else in the Portland area and were happy to agree to the impact fees, however unusual.
Whether the fees would be steep enough to deter Intel from creating many new jobs is, of course, an open question. At $1,000 per excess worker, a total of even 1,000 excess workers would mean a payment to the county of only $1 million a year, although Mike Salsgiver, an Intel spokesman, said: "It certainly could be a factor. This is a cost-conscious company."
More broadly, the provision authorizing the fees has powerful symbolic value, reflecting a clear effort on the county's part to set a new-jobs target that the company calls reasonable. The fees are also a selling point in information that county administrators have posted on their Web site for residents who have questions about the tax package.
"The fact that Intel is combining a $12.5 billion investment and a focus on job retention, not new employment growth, means new impacts should be minimal to schools and public infrastructure (roads, sewers, water systems, etc.)," a message on the Web site says.
Just a few years ago, when the state's timber industry had collapsed and Oregon's unemployment rate soared into the double digits, the idea of levying growth impact fees would have been almost unimaginable. Indeed, it was only six years ago that the state, in a determined bid to attract high-technology companies, kicked off its Strategic Investment Program, under which Intel has negotiated this and previous tax breaks.
The state has done spectacularly well with its transition from wood chips to computer chips. Oregon's Silicon Forest is a large part of the reason why the unemployment rate in the state is routinely below the national rate. A study issued this week by the United States Commerce Department said Oregon's economy in 1997 grew faster than that of any other state.
Oregon, with no sales tax, has a special reliance on property taxes, and state officials say the new package is intended to help mitigate a provision in the state tax code that assesses property taxes on a company's machinery and other equipment as well as its buildings and land, and thus imposes particular burdens on the high-technology industry.
The vast majority of Intel's investments here will be in equipment, which sometimes needs to be upgraded in a matter of months to accommodate advances in the fast-changing industry. As that equipment becomes increasingly automated, Intel is unlikely to be creating large numbers of jobs here despite the billions of dollars it is investing, the company says.
The deal also has provisions that would strip away the growth impact fees if the economic situation here turned and the area wanted more jobs. For now, though, even many workers who hold good jobs at Intel say they are just as happy that the company has disincentives to create very many more.
"The housing prices, the traffic, it's all going off the charts," Mark Kent, a 37-year-old technician looking to buy his first house, said at the company's Ronler Acres plant as he donned his chip-protective clothing, which looks a lot like a space suit.
"They'll never be able to stop the growth," Mr. Kent said, "but if this puts it at a slower pace, that's good."
Dave Stegemann, a technician who moved here from Albuquerque, N.M., a year and a half ago, said he had found the idea of discouraging growth a bit jarring, but only at first.
"It was unusual -- I'd never really heard of that idea before," Mr. Stegemann said. "But then I read about it, I thought about it, I talked to my wife about it, and it seemed like it's a really innovative approach. I think it's a fair idea. Growth does have costs."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Under its agreement with Washington County, Ore., Intel must either limit the growth of chip-manufacturing jobs like those at this plant in Hillsboro or pay the county an annual "growth impact fee." (Shane Young for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP INTEL CORP (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND (ORE); OREGON; WASHINGTON COUNTY (ORE); UNITED STATES (96%); OREGON, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIFE STYLES; HIRING AND PROMOTION; TAX CREDITS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENVIRONMENT; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; LABOR EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); COUNTIES (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999



202 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: City's Water Supply Must Be Above Politics

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Could it be that the issues raised by Michael J. Smith (Op-Ed, June 5) go beyond justifying the commuter tax and the preservation of New York City's water supply? 
 As a suburbanite who commuted to the city for many years, I recognized daily its significance in providing the reason for my economic and cultural well-being. It was my home for most of my daytime hours, and I felt I owed it something in terms of financial support.
It was a major political achievement three decades ago when city-versus-upstate infighting was set aside so that the small commuter tax could be enacted.
Today's officeholders would do well to recognize the interactions and dependencies that exist among all communities in the metropolitan area. They should try to persuade their constituents that these relationships count.
 
WILLIAM S. MILLER
Scarsdale, N.Y., June 7, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; TAXATION; COMMUTING LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: MILLER, WILLIAM S MICHAEL J SMITH (58%); OP-ED JUNE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999



203 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Citywide Reading and Math Test Scores Decline Sharply

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew released citywide reading and math test scores yesterday that showed a sharp decline from a year ago.
Last year, the Board of Education reported that 49.6 percent of New York City schoolchildren were reading at or above the level of students across the country. But yesterday, Dr. Crew said only 44.6 percent of students were reading at grade level. 
 Math scores declined even more sharply -- falling by about 10 percentage points -- and third-grade scores in both reading and math declined more than in any other grade.
Dr. Crew attributed the plunge to new, more challenging tests and higher standards that reflect a rise in test scores nationwide.
But he made no effort to play down the grimness of the new statistics. He said he was determined "not to make excuses" for the scores, and he pledged to move aggressively in the next weeks to hold administrators, teachers and students accountable.
He said he would set performance targets for next year -- requiring the city's 32 school districts and individual schools to meet either a test-score target or a target for improvement. Saying he was distressed by the wide achievement gap between black and Hispanic children and white and Asian ones, he said he would also set targets by race, in a program similar to one that has been adopted in Texas. Dr. Crew's proposal was immediately attacked yesterday by civil libertarians.
Based in part on the scores released yesterday, Dr. Crew said that he would require 70,000 third, sixth and eighth graders to go to summer school as he phases in tougher promotional standards that will be expanded to other grades. As a result of the fourth-grade reading test introduced by the state this year, which 67 percent of city students failed, 16,000 fourth-graders would be urged to go to summer school, he said.
And he promised to use the test scores to sanction and replace district superintendents, principals and teachers whose students were not performing well, and said more details about which districts he would focus on would come next week.
"You are looking at this system going through a watershed moment in reform," Dr. Crew said at a briefing on the new scores at Board of Education headquarters in Brooklyn. The tests were given to about 290,000 students in the third, fifth, sixth and seventh grades in April.
The city scores have traditionally been among the most closely watched measures of student performance. Scores have risen steadily over the last few years, and last year Dr. Crew boasted that city schoolchildren were performing just shy of the national average in reading and well above it in math, an especially remarkable achievement given the large concentration of immigrants and children in poverty.
The new scores show that city schoolchildren are now performing significantly below the national average in reading and about average in math. The scores of third-graders -- the centerpiece of a focus on literacy by Dr. Crew and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani -- dropped most of all, in both reading and math.
Saying he was "very alarmed and concerned," Mr. Giuliani seized on the decline in scores yesterday to renew his call for what he called radical reform of the city's school system, including abolishing the semi-independent Board of Education and placing the schools directly under the control of the Mayor.
But he stopped short of blaming Dr. Crew, saying the Chancellor "has done a very good job within a system that is totally nonfunctional."
The Chancellor's plan to set achievement targets by racial groups came under immediate fire yesterday from civil libertarians, who said that it appeared to perpetuate stereotypes that children perform better or worse because of their race, rather than because of factors like poverty, family stress or the poor quality of teachers and facilities in many inner-city schools.
"Are the targets for blacks and Hispanics going to be higher or lower than for whites and Asians?" said Michael Meyers, executive director of the New York Civil Rights Coalition, who said he would watch the policy closely with an eye to a legal challenge as the policy developed. "I don't get it; either way, it's outrageous. It's institutionalizing disparity and racial difference." Judging students by race, Mr. Meyers said, raised deeper questions. "Are you going to give them blood tests?"
Dr. Crew said he expected a total of 225,000 children in grades 3 through 12 to attend summer school this year, based on the test-score results and on their performance in high school. He predicted that the number would rise to 300,000 next year, as the city stiffens promotional requirements for grades 3 to 12.
Some of this year's decline, city testing officials said, came because the city is now comparing the performance of its students with a more recent sample of students nationwide who have taken the same test. The new national sample is from 1996; the old norm is from 1991. The performance of students nationwide has risen steadily, officials said, so that when the norm was updated, city students had to meet a higher standard.
If last year's test had been graded using the new standard, only 43.6 percent of the students would have been found to be reading at or above their grade level. That would have been a percentage point lower than this year's result. But math scores in all the grades tested and third-grade reading scores declined this year using either the old or the new standard.
In math, 61.9 percent of students in grades 3, 5, 6 and 7 scored at or above grade level last year. This year, the number dropped to 49.3 percent, just shy of the national average. After a statistical adjustment to make the tests comparable, math scores still declined 10 points.
Introducing a new focus on the achievement gap by race, Dr. Crew reported that 69 percent of white students, 65 percent of Asian-American students, 36 percent of Hispanic students and 37 percent of black students scored at or above grade level in reading.
Dr. Crew said this year's tests were more difficult than in the past -- requiring students to read longer passages and engage in more inferential thinking in reading and to use more logical deduction in math than on the old tests. The sharp drop in math, Dr. Crew said, indicated that schools had focused on literacy to the detriment of math, and he promised to change that.
The plunge in third-grade scores was especially dramatic -- and remained even after adjusting for the new norm and the new test.
Last year, 51.7 percent of third graders were reading at or above grade level; this year, the number dropped to 42.9 percent. Even after adjustment, third-grade scores dropped 3.5 percentage points.
In math, third-grade scores plummeted, to 47.4 percent from 64.3 percent last year; even after adjustment, the third-grade math score dropped 13.6 percentage points.
Since he arrived in New York four years ago, Dr. Crew has made a mantra of his insistence that all children should be able to read by third grade. He and Mr. Giuliani have repeatedly trumpeted Project Read, an after-school reading program for grades 1 through 3 as a centerpiece of their education policy.
Asked whether the new scores pointed to weaknesses in Project Read, Dr. Crew said yesterday that he did not subscribe to the "single bullet theory," adding that there might be "other things we didn't do or didn't do enough of."
Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers, said Project Read was often ineffective because it takes place after school, when children are tired and not at their best.
Irving Hamer, the Manhattan member of the Board of Education, said this year's results would become a baseline to build on, and that he expected a rise in scores next year. Scores often do rise as teachers become more familiar with a new test. New York City might have benefited from such test inflation after giving the same test since 1993, said Monty Neill, executive director of the National Center for Fair and Open Testing in Cambridge, Mass.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "More Exams, More Scores, More Concern"
District-by-district results of New York City's math and reading tests, given this spring in grades 3, 5, 6 and 7. Numbers shown are the percentages of students who perfomrmed at or above grade level.
 
MATH
 
District
 
Manhattan
1 - 48.2%
2 - 76.4%
3 - 47.7%
4 - 40.1%
5 - 29.1%
6 - 44.5%
 
Bronx
7 - 31.6%
8 - 42.4%
9 - 27.5%
10 - 35.5%
11 - 49.5%
12 - 28.1%
 
Brooklyn
13 - 38.5%
14 - 45.2%
15 - 50.6%
16 - 34.3%
17 - 37.0%
18 - 46.1%
19 - 32.9%
20 - 65.1%
21 - 69.4%
22 - 61.9%
23 - 32.2%
24 - 42.4%
 
Queens
24 - 51.9%
25 - 70.8%
26 - 84.9%
27 - 45.3%
28 - 55.7%
29 - 45.7%
30 - 57.6%
 
Staten Island
31 - 64.4
 
Chancellor's District*
85 - 26.5%
 
READING
 
District
 
Manhattan
1 - 41.1%
2 - 71.7%
3 - 47.4%
4 - 36.8%
5 - 26.5%
6 - 36.4%
 
Bronx
7 - 29.3%
8 - 35.2%
9 - 24.3%
10 - 31.2%
11 - 41.7%
12 - 23.7%
 
Brooklyn
13 - 36.7%
14 - 43.6%
15 - 46.5%
16 - 33.8%
17 - 36.3%
18 - 45.9%
19 - 28.8%
20 - 54.5%
21 - 61.6%
22 - 57.6%
23 - 28.6%
32 - 40.3%
 
Queens
24 - 46.1%
25 - 61.5%
26 - 78.7%
27 - 40.5%
28 - 51.0%
29 - 46.4%
30 - 47.6
 
Staten Island
 
31 - 60.7%
 
Chancellor's District*
 
85 - 24.5%
 
*A small group of low-performing schools under the control of the Chancellor
 
(Source: New York State Educations Department)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: INDEPENDENT BOARD OF EDUCATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENT BOARD OF EDUCATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (79%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (79%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (79%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); MATHEMATICS (75%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (74%); CHILD POVERTY (72%); 

PERSON: RUDY CREW (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



204 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: At Last, Japan Gets the Pill. Is This Good News?

BYLINE: By Francis Fukuyama; Francis Fukuyama is the author of "The Great Disruption: Human Nature and the Reconstitution of Social Order."

DATELINE: MC LEAN, Va.

 BODY:
More than 35 years after the birth control pill was introduced in the United States and other Western countries, an advisory council to Japan's Ministry of Health and Welfare finally decided in early June that it was safe enough for Japanese women to use. Japanese couples currently rely on condoms, the rhythm method and abortion (which is nonetheless frowned upon by both Buddhism and Shinto) to avoid unwanted pregnancies.
Japanese feminists lobbied hard to have the pill approved, particularly after the impotence drug Viagra was quickly approved by the (presumably) aging men in Japan's health bureaucracy. Many people in the West see this as another example of Japan's quaint backwardness, like the persistence of keiretsu business networks in an age of high-tech, global capitalism. 
 But these Japanese health bureaucrats may be savvier than that. Although we now take the birth control pill for granted, its introduction into Western societies in the 1960's had far greater consequences than anyone imagined at the time. The pill was supposed to give women more control over their reproductive lives; instead, in the United States and other Western countries, its introduction was followed by an explosion of illegitimacy, divorce and single-parent families.
This conundrum can be explained by the emergence of a totally unanticipated consequence: by giving women the means to prevent pregnancy, the pill freed men from the social responsibility of dealing with the consequences of sex.
The economists Janet Yellen and George Akerlof recently demonstrated that the pill led to, among other things, a sharp decrease in the rate of shotgun marriages in the United States between the early 1960's and the 1980's. At the beginning of this period, society enforced strict rules on young men who got their girlfriends pregnant; 20 years later, the pill had paradoxically liberated men rather than women from responsibility for the children they created. The fatherless household that subsequently emerged contributed to a host of other social ills, like poverty, crime, poor educational achievement and drug use.
Japan (along with Korea) stands out among developed countries because it lacks many social dysfunctions that have plagued Western societies. In the decades after World War II, violent crime rates in Japan actually declined, during a period when they were rising rapidly in the United States and Europe. Divorce has increased only slightly in the past 40 years, while single-parent families remain very rare. There are no extremes of poverty, drug use or teen-age pregnancy, despite the fact that Japan has a minimal welfare state when compared with North America and Europe.
While much of the so-called Asian values debate initiated at the beginning of the 1990's by Lee Kwan Yew, the former Prime Minister of Singapore, has been discredited by the Asian economic crisis, Mr. Lee was right about one thing. Asian societies, he argued, were more orderly than their Western counterparts in large measure because they had stronger and more stable families. And the stability of the traditional family rests, in Asia as elsewhere, on a sexual division of labor.
Poll after poll of Japanese women has shown a strong preference for traditional child-rearing roles over careers. This cultural preference has been reinforced by laws that are intended to protect women but that, from a Western perspective, end up discriminating against them in the workplace. Japanese white-collar women won the right to work as many hours as their male counterparts only in the 1980's, while blue-collar women have only recently been allowed to work second shifts. This has effectively barred them from, among other things, Japan's fabled lifetime employment system. As a result, female labor force participation is very low by the standards of developed countries, and the gender gap in incomes remains large.
There are many reasons for thinking that the Japanese family, and thereby Japan's vaunted social stability, will face disruption over the next generation. Japan is beginning to deindustrialize as the United States and Britain did a generation ago, with male workers losing jobs to smart machines and cheap foreign labor. Because of Japan's historically low fertility, the country will face a severe labor shortage as it loses well over 1 percent of its population each year in the 21st century. This shortage can be met either by importing foreign workers -- something Japan has resisted strongly -- or by encouraging more women to work. Together with the pill, all of these factors will undercut the social bargain on which Japanese society has traditionally rested, in which male resources were exchanged for female fertility.
Japan will be embarking on a fascinating social science experiment when it finally legalizes the pill. We will see if this bit of medical technology will produce consequences similar to ones that occurred in the West. That, more than the introduction of the Internet or the globalization of the economy, may produce a convergence between societies East and West. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIRTH CONTROL AND FAMILY PLANNING CONTRACEPTION (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (78%); APPROVALS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); FAMILY PLANNING (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); WOMEN (77%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (75%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (75%); SINGLE PARENTS (71%); ABORTION (71%); RELIGION (71%); CRIME RATES (69%); CHILD POVERTY (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); VIOLENT CRIME (61%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (61%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (56%); WORLD WAR II (50%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: FUKUYAMA, FRANCIS

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999



205 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3213 words

HEADLINE: CRACK'S LEGACY: A special report.;
In States' Anti-Drug Fight, A Renewal for Treatment

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: PHOENIX

 BODY:
A thief, a burglar, a gang member, a drug dealer and a mother stepped into a windowless room in this overbaked city one Tuesday afternoon, strip-searched of pride and any material possession that made them somebody outside the brick-walled room.
They are drug addicts in treatment, and every one of them might well be in prison under Federal law and the statutes of most other states. But in defiance of Arizona's political establishment, voters here took the law into their own hands and voted twice, by large majorities, to make their state the first to mandate treatment instead of prison for drug offenders. 
 So they sat in the ground-floor room, five people on a shaky frontier, talking about how tough it was to keep away from the pills, powder and smoke that used to run their lives. Several had been heavy users of crack cocaine, once characterized as so addictive that its users were deemed to be beyond help. All of them have tested clean for drugs.
"Believe me, this is harder than jail," said Albert Delatorre, the former gang member who would have faced up to five years in prison before the new law mandated treatment. "It's been a struggle. But treatment has helped me become a man. I've grown up." He is 22.
A dozen years after the national alarm over crack speeded the discarding of drug treatment in favor of punitive laws that helped create the world's largest prison system, drug policy is taking another turn. Treatment is making a comeback, driven largely by a grass-roots revolt.
In changing its laws, Arizona has taken the boldest step. But at least 40 states are giving judges and prosecutors discretion within existing laws to steer offenders toward treatment instead of jail through drug courts. A number of states are considering changing their mandatory prison laws for drug offenders, most notably New York, which was the first to require long sentences for possession of small amounts of drugs 26 years ago.
In the crack years of the 1980's, treatment programs were gutted while the drug-fighting budget quadrupled. News reports said crack was the most addictive substance of all, and prisons started to fill with people who once might have received help instead. As a result, the number of Americans locked up on drug offenses has grown to 400,000 today from 50,000 in 1980.
Yet even during the height of the prison boom, when some people were sentenced to life behind bars for possessing small amounts of a drug, a number of treatment centers continued to have success.
While not all addicts respond to treatment -- some studies show that a majority fail, usually in the first month -- these programs showed that crack was less addictive than some other street drugs, or even nicotine, and that many of its users responded to conventional group therapy. Habitual users of crack, according to a five-year Federal survey of treatment published last year, showed greater success at staying clean than alcoholics.
"It was simply nonsense, this notion that crack addicts were untreatable," said Dr. Mitchell Rosenthal, the president of Phoenix House of New York, the nation's largest private, nonprofit drug treatment institution, which has worked with more than 75,000 addicts over the last 30 years.
Some of the experts who called crack the worst drug of all have done an about-face.
"I've changed my view because of the data that has come in over the last 10 years," said Dr. Charles P. O'Brien, chief of psychiatry at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Philadelphia, who in the late 80's described crack as "by far, the most addictive drug we've ever had to deal with."
What changed his mind were national surveys that showed 84 percent of people who tried cocaine -- either smoking it as crack or inhaling it in powder form -- did not become addicted. Dr. O'Brien said he had also been swayed by a study of habitual users of crack who were assigned to treatment. A year after treatment, at least half tested free of drugs, according to the study, which he co-wrote.
"It turns out that many people can, and do, stop using crack -- even those who were addicted to it," Dr. O'Brien said.
 
The Impetus
From the Voters, A New Mandate
Locking up crack users is still the policy in the Federal system. A person caught with five grams of crack -- worth about $125 on the street -- and prosecuted under Federal drug laws in any state faces a mandatory five years in prison if convicted. Crack is the only drug that carries a mandatory prison term for possession.
But in Arizona, because of a voter initiative, the same crack user prosecuted under state laws cannot be sent to prison. Instead, he must undergo drug treatment. The money for treatment comes from the offenders themselves and from a tax on liquor.
Many states have adopted similar policies by establishing drug courts, which sentence people to treatment as a way to keep them out of jail. Started in Miami by judges and prosecutors frustrated by the conveyer-belt justice of the war on drugs, these courts have grown from a handful at the start of the decade to nearly 600 nationwide. More than 90,000 people have been sent to treatment through drug courts.
In recent months, even some of the most punitive states have turned away from imprisoning all drug offenders. The Legislature in Washington, a state that helped start the policy of life in prison after three convictions, recently passed, 97 to 0, a bill that would give judges discretion to send addicts to treatment instead of jail.
Louisiana, which trails only Texas in the percentage of its population in prison, has embarked on an ambitious drug court program, led by prosecutors and judges who say their jails can take no more people whose only crime is drug use.
Drug courts have sprouted throughout New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, though the basic laws on mandatory sentences for a host of drug crimes have not changed. In many cases, it is prosecutors who have discretion to send offenders to treatment, instead of filing charges that could lead to jail time.
"Drug courts work," said Judge John R. Schwartz, chief of the city court system in Rochester, N.Y. "They treat the underlying disease of addiction. Prison does not break the cycle of addiction."
While critics say the drug courts coddle chronic abusers who belong in jail, the cost savings have won over many others. Treatment instead of prison saves about $20,000 per person a year, according to a study last year by the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University.
Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey, the director of national drug policy, has become a promoter of drug courts, saying they "constitute one of the most monumental changes in social justice in this country since World War II."
After three years as the drug czar, General McCaffrey says he has concluded that treatment is the best way to reduce drug use.
The Clinton Administration has increased financing for treatment by 17 percent over the last four years. But President Clinton's drug-fighting budget, at $18 billion, the biggest in history, still directs nearly two-thirds of the money to enforcement and interdiction of the drug supply, a proportion unchanged since the Reagan Administration.
Treatment will get about $3 billion from the budget.
According to the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, 70 percent of the people sent to drug courts successfully complete treatment. People who are sent to prison instead of treatment are four times as likely to commit another drug crime within five years of release, the report found.
"Drug treatment programs are like Madonna -- they keep reinventing themselves after everyone has written them off," said Barbara Zugor, executive director of one of Arizona's oldest treatment centers, the Treatment Assessment Screening Center.
On Ms. Zugor's office wall are pictures of her with the nation's drug czars through the years, from William J. Bennett, who advocated locking up casual users, to General McCaffrey, who says he has dropped the term "drug war" as inappropriate.
Looking at the pictures, Ms. Zugor said drug policy had essentially gone full circle, from the hope of early treatment years to a harsh period of prison-building and zero tolerance to a trend toward treatment but with a coercive element.
"For all the money we've spent as a country, we haven't really had a good debate on what works," she said. "I do know this, though: Law enforcement and the courts and prosecutors seem to be awfully tired of picking people up and sending them off to jail."
 
The Change
Retired Millionaire Began Effort in 1996
Arizona might seem an odd state to turn the table on American drug policy. Its voters are generally conservative and definitely not soft on crime. For years, the state's imprisonment rate has ranked among the top. And under the state's basic drug laws, it is a felony to possess even the smallest amount of drugs like marijuana.
In the last five years, the prison population has ballooned by 50 percent, to 26,000. State officials say drug and alcohol abuse are at the root of the crimes of about 75 percent of the inmates, matching national surveys.
Arizona used to proclaim zero tolerance toward drugs, a policy publicized with commercials showing graphic images of prison life. A tent camp for prisoners -- nicknamed Camp Arpaio, after the tough-talking Maricopa County Sheriff, Joseph Arpaio -- was perhaps the most visible symbol of crime and punishment in the Grand Canyon state.
But in 1996, a retired millionaire, Joseph G. Sperling, started a political rockslide that is still sending down stones. Mr. Sperling, who is 78 and calls himself a lifetime student of British empiricism and economic history, made his fortune by building a university system for profit and then taking public the company that ran the system, called Apollo. But he was not ready to retire.
"As a social scientist, I thought the drug war was one of the most disastrous public policies I'd ever encountered," he said in an interview from Vienna, where he was vacationing. "Three years ago, I was talking with some Arizona politicians, and I said, 'We ought to reform the drug laws.' "
Mr. Sperling was particularly incensed by how crack had been depicted in the press and by policy makers as something that turned people into robots or animals. A front-page article in The New York Times in 1988, for example, reported alarm among drug experts: "Once people become addicted, these experts say, it is nearly impossible for them to stop using crack and never go back to it again."
Mr. Sperling said, "It was the same thing people said about marijuana-crazed blacks back in 1914."
Joined by George Soros, the philanthropist who has poured millions of dollars into overturning drug laws in several states, Mr. Sperling became a principal financial backer of an initiative to change Arizona's drug laws, Proposition 200.
Virtually the entire Arizona political establishment, the press and major national antidrug leaders campaigned against Proposition 200. Its most controversial part could have made drugs like heroin, LSD or marijuana legal for medical purposes when prescribed by two doctors.
But a less-discussed provision mandated treatment instead of prison for drug offenders as well as for certain nonviolent lawbreakers, mainly criminals whose core problem was drug addiction.
Proposition 200 passed by a 2-to-1 ratio in 1996. Then the Legislature amended the measure, saying voters had committed a grave error. But then supporters of the original initiative put it up for another statewide vote and again it passed, with a 57 percent majority in 1998.
"It was a dirty little secret that most people understood -- the drug war had failed," Mr. Sperling said. "The people were way ahead of the politicians on this."
The part of the law that allowed doctors to prescribe major drugs has been effectively halted by Federal restrictions on the medical use of such drugs.
But the treatment provision was quietly put to work more than two years ago, and early results show that three-fourths of the people who complete treatment test clean for drugs afterward.
The initiative labeled pro-drug by its opponents "is doing more to reduce drug use and crime than any other state program," said Judge Rudy Gerber of the Arizona Appellate Court.
Proposition 200's requirement that offenders get treatment instead of prison infuriated Rick Romley, the prosecutor of Maricopa County, which encompasses Phoenix, because he believes that the threat of punishment is essential.
Under a county treatment program called Do Drugs, Do Time, drug users are threatened with jail if they do not agree to accept treatment. Using this coercive approach, the program has been very successful, officials at the prosecutor's office said, with a recidivism rate of less than 10 percent.
"We believe strongly in treatment," said Barnett Lotstein, a special assistant to the Maricopa County prosecutor. "We're not 'lock 'em up and throw away the key' people. But you have to have something to hold over people, a hammer if you will."
Not far from the new office buildings and sports complexes of downtown Phoenix is a strip of asphalt that used to be the haunt of crack addicts. In recent months, many of them have disappeared. Some have been rounded up by the police and sent to jail on a variety of charges. But many others are in treatment, county officials said.
Asked about the view of experts in the 1980's that crack addiction was untreatable, Norman Helber, Maricopa County's chief adult probation officer, said, "We seem to have an awful lot of ex-crack addicts in Arizona who could tell you otherwise."
 
The Early Fight
Combining 'War' And Prevention
Richard M. Nixon was the first President to declare a "War on Drugs," but he also directed about two-thirds of all Federal anti-drug money at treatment and prevention, particularly of heroin addiction, with great success, as measured by sharp drops in crimes committed by drug addicts. Nixon's policy, led by a young psychiatrist, Dr. Jerome H. Jaffe, expanded federally financed treatment centers from 6 in 1969 to more than 300 in 1973.
"What worked for Jerome Jaffe a quarter-century ago could be just as effective today," Michael Massing wrote in his narrative history of drug policy, "The Fix" (Simon & Schuster, 1998)
Discouraged by news accounts of addicts who had skipped out of treatment, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York became one of the first major politicians to turn against treatment.
"Let's be frank," he said in a 1973 speech. "We have found no cure."
The Governor created some of the nation's most punitive drug laws, which locked people up for 15 years for possessing certain drugs.
For the next 20 years, the dominant sentiment among politicians and prosecutors was "nothing works," and treatment fell out of favor -- particularly in the crack years.
The Process Trying to Rebuild
Wrecked Lives
Ever since his mother handed him a marijuana joint laced with opium at the age of 10, Leslie Angle said, he has had a companionship with illegal drugs. Mr. Angle is 39 now, gray haired, with a bit of a slouch.
"Crack is the one drug that made me see that I needed help," he said. "I hit my bottom with that drug." He was homeless, stealing to stay high, selling stolen property. He has been in and out of jail a half-dozen times for a variety of petty crimes, all of them tied to his drug addiction.
Mr. Angle entered the Proposition 200 treatment program in Arizona early last year and pays about $40 a week, using money from Social Security disability payments for mental illness. Like others in treatment, he attends about two sessions of group therapy a week, led by a licensed counselor.
There is no acupuncture. No synthetic substitutes such as methadone. No shock therapy or drugs designed to mute the brain's pleasure impulses. The treatment is aimed at getting Mr. Angle to recognize the patterns of abuses in his life.
"This teaches me things I didn't know before," Mr. Angle said. "I'm tired of just stumbling along through life -- sick of everything I became. This program has taught me that I have a choice: that I can change."
In New York, Phoenix House admits about 1,000 people every year to a residential treatment program. Many of them might otherwise go to prison under the state's Rockefeller drug laws. The laws give judges no choice but to sentence offenders to jail, but prosecutors often decide not to press charges if an offenders agrees to stay in a program like Phoenix House.
Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, a Republican, has suggested that the drug laws, arguably the harshest in the country, could be amended to give judges discretion to send some first-time offenders to treatment instead of jail. Critics say Mr. Pataki proposal is too modest, but Democrats, concerned they would be labeled soft on drug crime if they agreed to the changes, have refused to act on it.
A majority of the people who enter Phoenix House identify crack as their primary drug. Treatment involves extensive group therapy for 12 to 18 months, paid for by state and Federal grants, or donations. The routine is strict, with 10 people to a room, military-like insistence on neatness, punctuality and politeness.
For people who are used to instant gratification, Phoenix House is a long, slow process -- a prospect that makes many addicts balk at entering on their own.
But the program's results defy the assessment that crack addicts are untreatable. About 70 percent of those who complete at least a year of the program have tested drug-free up to five years later, said Dr. Mitchell Rosenthal, president of Phoenix House.
"Crack and me were like best friends," said Danny Servera, a 31-year-old New Yorker who has been in treatment for eight months. Mr. Servera is a natty dresser who used to manage a men's clothing store. This is his second time in treatment for crack.
"I never woke up in the morning with the shakes or anything like that," Mr. Servera said. "For me, it was always mental. I'd start to think about getting high as a way to numb myself."
Treatment is built around the person, not the drug. It involves rebuilding a life, in contrast to prison, where the concept of rehabilitation has been all but abandoned.
"There's a growing number of us who never walked away from the belief that the key to bringing down drug use is trying to change behavior," said Barbara Broderick, who administers the drug treatment fund for the state of Arizona. "Prison should be for violent people and the recalcitrant."
It is prison where most hard-core drug users who get in trouble with the law now reside. More than 90 percent of them have had no treatment for the addictions that got them behind bars, where drugs often remain freely available.
Locking up these people, in the view of some criminologists, is a main reason crime is down. But as many of the nation's 400,000 imprisoned drug offenders are released in the coming years, they are likely to follow a pattern that has already taken hold: the ones who have not been treated -- the great majority -- will commit another crime within five years.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arizona mandates treatment instead of prison for drug offenders. Albert Delatorre, hand on knee, who would have previously faced up to five years in prison, is in a therapy session with other recovering addicts and a counselor, Julie M. Reed, to his right. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PHOENIX HOUSE

ORGANIZATION: PHOENIX HOUSE

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US) SUBSTANCE ABUSE (91%); COCAINE (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); PRISONS (90%); BURGLARY (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); DRUG COURTS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (76%); SENTENCING (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); JUDGES (63%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY; ROSENTHAL, MITCHELL (DR) CHARLES P O'BRIEN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1999



206 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
YEN IS A BIT WEAKER. The dollar edged up as traders locked in gains from the Japanese currency's rise on Tuesday amid talk that Japan's economy is recovering. In New York, the dollar settled at 118.93 yen, up from 118.88.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since December 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1999



207 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Sony Music Plans to Test Use of In-Store Digital Kiosks

BYLINE: By LISA NAPOLI 

 BODY:
Sony Music Entertainment said yesterday that it had struck a deal that would let consumers buy music through digital vending machines in music stores.
The announcement follows a flurry of deals and partnerships in recent months that hope to capitalize on public interest in the digital delivery of music over the Internet. The Sony deal is unusual, however, because it shifts digital delivery out of the home and into retail outlets. 
 In an agreement with Digital On-Demand, a company that has developed the in-store digital kiosks, consumers will be able to choose from 4,000 albums, about half of Sony's music catalogue. The digital files will then be sent over a proprietary computer system and pressed to the customer's choice of format, including CD, DVD and minidisk.
The transaction, which would include the printing of art and liner notes to match that of a prepackaged CD, should take 10 to 15 minutes, according to Scott T. Smith, president of Digital On-Demand, which is based in Carlsbad, Calif. An initial test of the kiosks is to take place in 50 stores in the New York and Los Angeles metropolitan areas beginning this fall, he said.
The kiosks will also be able to download music to digital music players, once such a standard is created, Mr. Smith said. A music industry coalition, including Sony and the other four major music producers, have said they will reach a digital delivery standard by June 30.
Last month, even in advance of an agreement on a standard, Sony said it planned to begin selling singles by its musicians this summer directly through the Internet -- a move that could bring it into conflict with traditional retailers.
Danny Yarbrough, chairman of Sony Music Distribution, said yesterday that the kiosks would not eclipse efforts at on-line sales, but make music more widely available in more formats.
"We see this as an expansion of the business," he said. "It offers the retailer the ability to offer titles they wouldn't be able to physically carry to that consumer in that environment."
Analysts were skeptical of the plan, citing problems with the operation and maintenance of kiosk devices in highly trafficked retail outlets, as well as the unwillingness of consumers to wait for their purchases to be prepared.
Mark Hardie, senior analyst with Forrester Research of Cambridge, Mass., noted a proliferation of "smoke and mirrors" announcements stemming from the eagerness of various industries to ride the mania surrounding digital-based production.
"There's so much noise being made about technology that glosses over the realities of poor products, bad interfaces, the true market," he said. "At the end of the day, I don't think this is going to succeed. It's neat technology at a time when the world is ga-ga over neat technology."
Mike Dreese, founder of Newbury Comics, a New England music chain, said that his experience with earlier versions of kiosks in his stores had been troublesome.
"There's an enormous disconnect going on between technologists, the music industry and the people who have tested these devices," he said. "There are very few in-store devices that work."
Indeed, several attempts this decade to sell music through kiosks have failed. Digital On-Demand is a successor to another kiosk business, Newleaf Entertainment, which was a joint venture by I.B.M. and Viacom Inc.'s Blockbuster Entertainment unit. That venture, whose patents Digital On-Demand has licensed, was shelved because the companies could not create enthusiasm for the idea within the industry. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (96%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (96%); SIC2542 OFFICE & STORE FIXTURES, PARTITIONS, SHELVING, & LOCKERS, EXCEPT WOOD (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SONY MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT INC; DIGITAL ON-DEMAND SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (96%); IN-STORE GAGE MARKETING LLC (58%); DIGITAL ON-DEMAND INC (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: SONY MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT INC; DIGITAL ON-DEMAND

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) MUSIC STORES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); INTERNET AUDIO (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MUSIC (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); 

PERSON: NAPOLI, LISA CRAIG R SMITH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1999



208 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place -- Has the Global Fever Broken?;
Stock and Bond Markets Read Different Thermometers

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Is the financial crisis that first erupted in the global economy about two years ago really over? Or is there a lighted stick of dynamite somewhere out there just waiting to explode?
In the weeks leading to the meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers on June 30 -- a meeting that both stock and bond investors seem increasingly convinced will produce an increase in short-term interest rates -- the signals coming from the markets on the state of the world's economies could not be more mixed. While stock traders around the world exude confidence and find last fall's market meltdown just a hazy memory, the United States bond market remains fearful. 
 The worry is not only the traditional one -- that inflation is coming back to life. There is also a renewed foreboding that some yet-unidentified crisis looms on the horizon that will put an end to the belief that the fever that gripped much of the world is safely under control.
Because the nation's enormous debt markets are not as transparent as its stock markets, assaying bond investors' overall mood is tricky. But strategists say the market for non-Treasury debt still suffers from a fairly severe lack of liquidity, the result of an unwillingness among large brokerage firms to risk capital in their trading of corporate bonds, mortgage-backed obligations, even Treasury issues that are not among the current benchmarks. Further, the risk premiums that investors demand from more speculative debt securities, which take the form of higher yields compared with those of Treasury securities with similar maturities, have been increasing in recent weeks.
Part of the rise in rates reflects fears that inflation may be returning. Yesterday, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond -- just about the safest investment in the world -- closed at 6.02 percent, the highest close in over a year. But it is not just jitters about inflation that are rattling the bond market. In recent weeks, yields on high-grade and high-yield corporate bonds and even those on less-liquid Treasury bonds and notes, known as "off the run" issues, have increased significantly compared with the yields on the most heavily traded Treasury securities with comparable maturities.
This widening of spreads, referring to the difference between what, say, a junk bond with a 10-year maturity yields over a Treasury with the same due date, usually indicates that investors see something worrisome on the horizon that makes them more risk-averse.
Indeed, notes Stan Jonas, managing director of Fimat USA, a broker-dealer in New York that specializes in futures and derivatives, "off the run" Treasuries have risen against comparable benchmark issues to levels close to those seen last fall after Russia defaulted on its debts and the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management teetered on the edge of collapse.
"There is an underbelly here," Mr. Jonas said. "Credit spreads started to widen out in the last four weeks. People are getting themselves set up for some real problems. The last time we saw these kinds of spreads was in the midst of the post-Russia market dislocations that Mr. Greenspan, when he bailed out Long-Term Capital, said were so necessary to address."
Which makes the widely anticipated move by the Fed to raise rates very intriguing. Traditionally, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, has been wary of a market mood exceptionally averse to risk because it indicates that capital formation could easily be crimped. Indeed, at the height of the market meltdown last fall, when trading in more speculative bonds virtually ground to a halt, Mr. Greenspan pointed to the frozen market as one of the key reasons the Fed felt impelled to lower rates three times in a two-month span by a quarter percentage point each time.
So, several analysts ask, if the bond market is not yet fully thawed and there is still little evidence of inflation on the scene, why does the Fed appear poised to raise rates? Of course, Fed policy makers have more than two weeks to change their views before the meeting at the end of the month. In the meantime, market watchers will be paying attention to see if Mr. Greenspan has anything to say about monetary policy in his speech today at the Harvard University commencement. And they will be even more intent on the Fed chairman's planned testimony to the Joint Economic Committee next Thursday, just one day after the Government releases data on consumer prices for May.
Some strategists wonder if Mr. Greenspan is capitalizing on a period of relative calm in international markets to raise rates to curb the runaway American stock market. If so, he may be disappointed. For indomitable stock investors have shown a buoyancy that even the specter of a rate increase has not depressed. The Dow Jones industrial average closed yesterday at 10,690.29, just 3.7 percent below its May 13 peak of 11,107.
Indeed, a rate increase by the Fed is now viewed by many equity investors as solid-gold proof that the world economic crisis has abated and stocks can be bought aggressively. This, even though higher bond yields are certain to draw some investor funds out of the stock market.
When the Fed announced on May 18 that it was shifting its stance from neutral on interest rates to leaning toward raising rates, it said, "Domestic financial markets have recovered and foreign economic prospects have improved since the easing of monetary policy last fall."
Recent rebounds in equity markets around the world -- particularly in previously depressed parts of the Pacific Rim and Latin America -- are taken as evidence that investors have seen the depths of the decline that began two years ago when the Thai baht was devalued. But dispatches from the bond market tell a very different story.
For example, according to Salomon Smith Barney, last fall junk bonds yielded a staggering 6.64 percentage points more than did comparable Treasuries, up from a premium of 3.6 percentage points in January 1998. In early May, yields on junk had fallen back to 4.71 percentage points more than those on Treasuries. But they crept back up to a premium of 4.84 percentage points at the end of the month.
Bond investors, of course, are worriers by nature, while stock players thumb their noses at risk. But movements in spreads are watched closely because they reflect the willingness of bond investors to take risk. When times are good, spreads narrow, as investors exit the safest investments for the higher yields that riskier issues offer. Conversely, wider spreads are an indication that investors are increasingly afraid.
Wider spreads are often a precursor to market turmoil. For instance, weeks before Russia defaulted on its debt last August, sending American financial markets into a tailspin, spreads on non-Treasury debt had been inching up.
The situation today is not as bad as last fall, but it has made many big brokerage houses wary of committing themselves to a position. "Dealers still seem to be constrained," said Martin S. Fridson, chief high-yield strategist at Merrill Lynch & Company. "Unless by a miracle, a buyer and seller steps into the marketplace with the same amount of bonds at the same price, dealers won't step in."
One piece of evidence that spooked bond investors recently was the Fed's May 1999 report on bank lending practices in the United States, made public on June 4. This survey of senior loan officers at 60 American banks showed that a greater share of banks had chosen to be more restrictive in their lending policies in the previous three months than had done so in the three months leading up to the January 1999 survey, a period that included the credit market turmoil of the fall. Why, they wondered, were more banks tightening their lending policies in what is supposed to be a healthy economy?
A rising default rate among speculative-grade corporate issuers certainly does not help. Twenty-three issuers defaulted on $3.4 billion in debt in May, bringing the default rate on corporate debt tracked by Moody's Investors Service to 4.3 percent for the month on a trailing 12-month basis, up from 4.1 percent in April. A year earlier, the rate was 2.72 percent; the average over the long term is 3.2 percent.
There has also been a fairly crowded calendar of bond issues coming to market recently as issuers try to raise money now in case of further interest rate increases later this year. Yesterday, Freddie Mac, Bank of America and Marsh & McLennan led $9 billion of corporate debt sales. This supply, and that in the pipeline, weighs heavily on the market.
Notwithstanding the Fed's sanguine outlook for foreign economies, many bond watchers fret that many wild cards remain overseas. Despite its rallying stock market, Japan still seems gripped by a deflationary spiral. Threats of a devaluation in China also contribute to a sense of unease in the Pacific Rim. Meanwhile, Latin America, especially Brazil, remains fragile, as does Russia.
"I think it's inevitable that you'll get another Brazil, another Russia, particularly with commodity prices weak," Mr. Fridson, the Merrill Lynch strategist, said. "I'm just sort of resigned to those situations continuing to come along periodically because I don't see any fixes that have been done."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Symptoms of Unease"
The stock market appears confident that the worst of the world's economic troubles are over. But bond traders have lately turned wary again, demanding higher yields for riskier investments.
 Graph plots the Dow Jones industrial average, monthly, since the beginning of 1998. Over the same period, it also tracks the percentage yields above those of the following comparable Treasury securities: Corporate AAA/AA (relatively safe), Corporate BBB (moderate risk), High-Yield Corporate (speculative). Bond data monthly averages based on indexed bond yields. (Sources: Salomon Smith Barney; Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEWEDGE GROUP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ECONOMY BOND MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); TRENDS (76%); FUTURES (76%); THERMAL SENSORS (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN ALAN GREENSPAN (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1999



209 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: P.& G. to Cut 15,000 Jobs And Shut Down10 Plants

BYLINE: By DANA CANEDY 

 BODY:
In an effort to loosen its stiff corporate culture and free more cash for product development, Procter & Gamble said yesterday that it would cut 15,000 jobs worldwide -- or 13 percent of its work force -- close 10 plants and take nearly $2 billion in charges linked to the reorganization.
P.& G., which makes such products as Tide detergent, Pampers diapers and Crest toothpaste, also said in a meeting with analysts and investors in New York yesterday that its financial results for the current quarter would be flat and would improve only modestly the next quarter. And the company acknowledged that it had been too ambitious in its 10-year goal to double revenue to $70 billion by 2005, all but admitting it would fall significantly short. 
 Durk I. Jager, the chief executive, nonetheless tried to assure analysts and investors that the reorganization would spur future growth and save about $900 million a year by 2004. The overview of what P.& G. calls "Organization 2005" provided the first detailed look at Mr. Jager's blueprint for growth since he was selected to lead P.& G. in January after 29 years with the company.
Investors typically cheer when a company announces plans to cut costs and promises huge savings. But P.& G. shareholders have heard all of this before and been disappointed when management did not deliver the lofty revenue gains and fatter profits it had promised.
This time, investors punished the company's stock, indicating their skepticism that the reorganization would bring about the 13 to 15 percent annual earnings growth that management now promises and signaling their disappointment with the less-than-impressive quarterly forecast. P.& G. shares declined $2.5625 yesterday, or 2.7 percent, to $92.25.
"I think what we are seeing now in the reaction in the stock is people want to see results right now," said Mark Godfrey, a senior analyst with the Invesco Funds Group, which holds 1.6 million shares of P.& G.
The mixed bag of news management presented yesterday -- with the warnings of a mediocre short-term performance but the carrot of a payoff later -- failed to impress investors, analysts said. "Nobody was wowed by what they heard," said William Steele, a managing director of Banc of America Securities. "Quite honestly, the jury is still out on the company's ability to sustain long term a 13 percent growth rate."
To be sure, P.& G.'s reorganization should make for a more efficient enterprise. But six years ago, the company cut thousands of jobs, closed dozens of plants and took $1.5 billion in charges in what management called a strategy to refocus the business. In recent years, though, P.& G. has been hurt by the collapse of some foreign economies, as well as the company's lethargic product-development cycle and sometimes slow response to consumer trends.
As part of the current reorganization, P.& G. will eliminate 15,000 jobs over the next six years, with 10,000 coming by the end of 2001. Only about 16 percent of the job cuts will be in North America, with most in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
P.& G. did not disclose which plants it intends to close, but as with the job cuts, most or all are expected to be outside the United States. Of the $1.9 billion in after-tax charges related to the reorganization, about $400 million will be taken in the current quarter and about $1 billion over the next two fiscal years. The remainder will be taken by 2004.
"The cost of Organization 2005 is well justified by both the ongoing operational benefits of our new structure and the substantial financial benefits it will generate for our shareholders," Mr. Jager said. The plan, he added, "marks the most dramatic change to P.& G.'s structure, work processes and culture in the company's history."
The plan calls for developing seven global business units focused on product segments such as hair care, laundry and feminine hygiene. It also shifts the company's focus from geographic expansion to faster, more innovative product development. And it ties executives' compensation more closely to innovation.
Indeed, if Mr. Jager succeeds in relaxing P.& G.'s cumbersome corporate structure, it would represent a new era in the company's culture and perhaps again make P.& .G. the undisputed leader in consumer products. It has already begun to show new spark, notably by introducing products that move it into new areas like Dryel, a dry-cleaning kit for home use and Febreze, which is used to remove odors from fabric.
Still, the company has made some embarrassing missteps recently, as in its failure to swiftly respond to consumers' taste for new toothpaste flavors and formulas. P.& G. saw its share of the market tumble as Colgate-Palmolive and others lured once-loyal Crest users.
Analysts said that while throwing more resources behind research and development, and bringing products to market quicker, were certainly welcome changes, P.& G. must begin soon to deliver better financial results. "Procter's Organization 2005 is more of an evolution than a revolution," said Wendy Nicholson of Salomon Smith Barney. "This is a six-year program, and investors need to be wary of exactly how long Procter might take to get this business where they want it to be." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (91%); PG (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); IVZ (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (91%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (91%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); INVESCO LTD (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES LAYOFFS (90%); SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MFG (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); 

PERSON: CANEDY, DANA; JAGER, DURK I DURK I JAGER (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1999



210 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1669 words

HEADLINE: DESIGN NOTEBOOK;
Success Is in Sight, But Where's The Vision?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
YOU could smell the plywood at the Library of Congress, where "The Work of Charles and Ray Eames: A Legacy of Invention" recently opened. At the exhibition of the two American designers' multifaceted achievement, the cheap board they made beautiful has a fresh, resourceful smell that makes you believe anything is possible, because the world might be as pliable as new plywood.
The crowd was thick with people in their 20's and 30's, discovering the Eameses' sculptural midcentury furniture and the inventive assemblages of domestic artifacts from their 1949 prefabricated house in Pacific Palisades, Calif., which embodied their inspiring intentions. As the show's banner graphics explained, the Eameses "aimed to improve society." 
 The notions that innovatively designed and economically accessible objects like home furnishings could be ambassadors of cultural change, that elegance can be ordinary and that being serious can be fun are still radical. They registered visibly for a new audience trying the chairs or watching the flowers and toys spin on the screens that displayed the designers' entertaining educational films.
"Whoa! That's nana's chair!" a young man with a surfer's bob of hair and neck beads said to his girlfriend as they approached the famous rosewood lounge chair and ottoman that, he noted, "everyone in the family is scoping out!" Holding hands, they stood before it as if it were the edge of the ocean.
At the four-day International Contemporary Furniture Fair at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in May, the nation's most comprehensive exhibition of contemporary home design, emotions ran drier.
Design is enjoying a moment in the sun, thanks to lots of fashionable press. But it was hard to believe that the next team of Eameses might have been at the 1999 fair.
Instead, there were stylish versions of everything fashionable during the last few years: versions of minimal, Cubistic, wenge wood boutique-hotel fittings; versions of the bamboo-Bauhaus, Asian-inflected interiors that designers build for rock stars' vacation homes in Bali; versions of the Scandinavian 1960's, the Italian 70's, the Los Angeles architectural 80's.
Off site, there was a vigorous circuit of parties as New York's design community played host to the trade and the fashionably curious. At Cappellini Modern Age on Wooster Street, there were twin musclemen in black T-shirts, velvet roping arrivals at the door. At Troy on Greene Street, linen-shirted guests dipping frites in mayonnaise sat at Maarten Van Severen's severe tables beneath his police-station-style lighting, like people being interrogated.
But at the end of the day, the decade, the century, the millennium, tough thinking about the direction of design and its power of solution was in short supply, which is too bad. Enthusiasm for the subject has never been stronger. Does design still have a mission? Should it? The Eames show and the furniture fair were an opportunity to consider the market for contemporary design and the relevance of its promise.
Designers, manufacturers and retailers agree that the audience is growing, with a new generation of furniture buyers.
"The consumer is demanding more design," said Gary Friedman, president for retail at Williams-Sonoma, the parent company of Pottery Barn, whose sales in 1998 exceeded $550 million, an increase of 37 percent over the previous year. "People have been subliminally educated about design by advertising, the Internet -- everything they enjoy, from snowboarding to music videos."
David Shearer, the owner of Totem, a TriBeCa gallery specializing in provocative designs, said: "There's a trendiness to design right now. We're getting a more average customer." Totem, which also has a catalogue and wholesale business, expects close to $2 million in sales this year, an increase of 40 percent over last year. "Twenty-five percent of our orders are going to the middle of the country," Mr. Shearer said.
Contemporary home furnishings design has entered the equation of stylish living, sharing younger consumers' attention with fashion and travel. With that has come pressure to make it less elite, more affordable and more accessible. Even flea-marketing, which introduced a younger audience to modern design, is running thin as an inexpensive outlet.
Crate and Barrel, whose sales approached $200 million in 1998, is experimenting with a lower-cost brand for younger consumers, very much like the Gap's Old Navy chain, which analysts predict may surpass Gap stores in sales in the next two years. Crate and Barrel's first Generations X through Y store, tentatively called Blueprint, will open in Chicago in August. Pottery Barn has similar plans on the drawing board.
"Obviously there's something for everyone to learn from Old Navy," Mr. Friedman said. "If you look at Pottery Barn's demographics, which is people with incomes of $75,000 and above, it's not catering to 65 percent of the population. There's a huge opportunity there."
The large retailers, frequently accused of generic design that will sell to the widest group through the lowest common denominators, are bolstering their credentials by putting new designers on the payroll. Pottery Barn has tripled its in-house design department, to more than 30 employees, in the last year and has introduced signature lines by designers like Jonathan Adler, whose work reflects the popularity of the 1950's and 60's. Williams-Sonoma last year hired Peri Wolfman, a New York retailer, as vice president for product design. Eric Pfeiffer, 30, the founder of Bravo 20, a design business based in San Francisco, was made the consulting creative director of Hold Everything last month .
"They've realized the bar had to go up on esthetics," Mr. Pfeiffer said, speaking at Bravo 20's booth at the furniture fair. "Simple, clean, modern is the in thing."
Within the last 15 years, the system of the few dozen independent stores that sold contemporary design, often isolated in their midsize cities, has been challenged.
"I've noticed larger companies walking the aisles, approaching you to see how you can help them -- Target, Crate and Barrel, the big-box retailers," Mr. Pfeiffer said. "It was all about price. Now design is the hook."
Kmart has Martha Stewart's Everyday, a brisk, administrative line of coordinating taste, which is expanding into furniture. Target, which hired the architect Michael Graves to design household products, is now talking with Blu Dot, a young furniture company based in Minneapolis.
"Target's furniture buyers are younger than their typical buyers," John Christakos, one of Blu Dot's principals, said. "They're teen-agers or college kids -- young apartment dwellers. And when big companies try to do products for young people, it's like your father using a slang word. It doesn't come out right."
At the higher end of the market, design galleries are branching out like more traditional retailers. Totem will open a second store this fall in New York and one in Los Angeles. Salon Moderne in SoHo will open a new store, Property, in September. Moss on Greene Street has taken the space next door. Format, showcasing Italian manufacturers, opened on Wooster Street in May, the latest European arrival to SoHo.
The new design stores are also Internet-based businesses, erasing the boundaries of the market and making it available to anyone looking for it, especially young customers in small towns. (With prophetic fit, the Eameses are on line, too, through their manufacturer. Web site transactions account for 20 percent of Herman Miller's Home Collection sales.)
Fashion, the industry credited with helping make contemporary furniture fashionable, might be expected to take it forward. Donna Karan's new 17,000-square-foot Madison Avenue store will sell household products by Droog, a Dutch group interested in the intellectual edge of design, in addition to two new home Donna Karan lines. The Prada store, opening in SoHo, will also have a substantial furnishings collection.
But despite availability, popularity and an increasingly sophisticated set of references, this visitor to the 1999 fair found design's sense of leadership sadly missing among the largely fashionable furniture.
Gary McNatton, a senior vice president of Gap and creative director for home design at Banana Republic, agreed: "The 90's were a lost decade. We went retro. Nothing happened. You look at the masters, like the Eameses. It gives you a true appreciation of what design has to give."
With its prospects improving, contemporary furniture might reasonably be called upon to develop a vision that looks forward, not backward, and that trades on ideas, not attitudes. During the fair, many designers said that new materials and new technologies, not unlike the legacy of the Eameses, were the unseen elements of this decade's design, not new shapes.
But with its success, the profession could easily lose its nerve.
What prevailed at the fair were fashion statements, not design solutions. The historical moment has moved away from the postwar American recovery that the Eameses helped galvanize with good design. But practical issues of affordable, multifunctional furnishings are as relevant to a young professional generation now, living under the pressures of late-20th-century life, as they were to a country constructing the future of peace 50 years ago -- and eager for the best ways to do it. Purpose can be adventurous; change can accommodate comfort.
Davan Joy of U.S.D.A., a California design collective that exhibited at a temporary gallery space on Grand Street as part of "G7," a collaborative of seven American designers who chose not to participate in the fair, put his finger on the problem for both designers and their public.
As he waited with his colleagues to have his picture taken for Harper's Bazaar -- Wallpaper was working on its shoot in the background -- Mr. Joy said, "Everybody needs to take a little bit more of a risk."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: RADICAL OR CHIC? -- G7, a design collective, left (Steven Krause/Totem); the Eames show, top (Justin Lane for The New York Times); Vladimir Kagan at the Javits fair, below, (Carrie Boretz for The New York Times)(pg. D7); VERY 1999 -- Ali Tayar's designs, introduced at the furniture fair. (pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 OTHER BUSINESS SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS FURNITURE INC (93%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FURNITURE; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; INTERNATIONAL CONTEMPORARY FURNITURE FAIR (NYC) WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); LIBRARIES (78%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (78%); SURFING (77%); MILLENNIUM (64%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (55%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, WILLIAM L DAVID SHEARER (56%); GARY FRIEDMAN (56%); RAY EAMES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1999



211 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
A political remedy for Medicare could become economic poison.

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT CLINTON'S plan to revamp Medicare is shaping up as a clever device for election-year politicking. But whether it succeeds as health care policy is unclear.
According to Administration officials and internal documents, the Medicare proposal, which is expected to be announced later this month, will expand Medicare benefits by adding coverage for outpatient prescription drugs, heavily subisdizing the cost to the elderly so that they pay perhaps only half the costs. To pay for the new drug benefit, the proposal would gobble up nearly a trillion dollars of future budget surpluses, stripping Republicans of money to pay for their tax cuts. 
 Though details are unsettled, the proposal will also seek to inject more vigorous competition into the Medicare market from private managed care plans but in a way that will not raise premiums the elderly must pay to stay in traditional fee-for-service coverage. This provision is catnip to powerful Democratic constituencies that cling to traditional Medicare and whose support Vice President Al Gore desperately needs in 2000.
All this makes for deft politics, but, depending on final details, dubious economics. Even those like Robert D. Reischauer of the Brookings Institution, who think the Administration's ideas are a "step in the right direction," lament the lost opportunity to fix glaring flaws in Medicare. Indeed, how well the plan fixes Medicare will largely depend on which officials win out: those whose primary focus is on Medicare or those who are concentrating primarily on the elections in 2000.
Medicare needs a fix. Costs are rising fast. Benefits are skimpy compared with those of employer-based plans. The program lacks many innovative techniques that the best private managed care plans use to raise the quality of care.
The Administration's plan seriously tackles only one of these flaws: expanding Medicare to include prescription drugs. Some offficials say the cost need not be prohibitive because prescription drugs substitute for expensive hospital and nursing home care. But most independent estimates put the cost of drug coverage at about $40 a month for every Medicare participant. If the charge were passed onto the elderly, their monthly permium, now $45.50, would nearly double. Private companies that provide supplemental drug coverage charge about $90 a month. The Administration plan would cover a substantial part of the cost by tapping future budget surpluses.
The Administration also plans to restruture the way that Medicare plans compete. Most of the elderly enroll in the Government-run fee-for-service plan. About 15 percent of the elderly enroll in private managed care plans. But the competition is stunted because Federal regulators decide, largely independent of market forces, how much the plans charge their enrollees and collect from the Government. The system of Government-set prices causes problem. Managed care plans have been dropping out of the program, contending that the Government fees are set too low.
Here the Administration is caught in a political bind. Most economists recommend moving to a system of competitive bidding. Plans, including the Goverment-run fee-for-service option, would compete for enrollees by setting premiums, and the Government would base its contribution to private plans based on market bids. The idea is let market competition drive the Government's cost to the proper level.
But the system that makes good economic sense makes little political sense. The problem is that under competitive bidding, the price of fee-for-service coverage is expected to rise faster than the price of managed care because managed-care does a better job controlling costs. If so, the elderly will find themselves financially compelled to switch to managed care, and that is not a threat the Administration is likely to pose in an election year. Some economists ask, however, why the elderly should be better insulated from the rising cost of fee-for-service coverage than are taxpayers who pay the bill for Medicare.
One option the Administration has considered is moving to partial competitive bidding. Managed care plans -- but not the fee-for-service plan -- would submit bids. The purpose is to unleash competition to drive down the Government's costs.
This proposal is not new. A version will be tested in Phoenix and the Kansas City area early next year. But economists are not sure it will work. Gail R. Wilensky, chairwoman of the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, fears that competition limited to managed care plans will drive down their revenue even as the cost of the protected fee-for-service plan spirals upward. That could drive managed care from the market. The Administration is working on variations that would put competitive pressure on the fee-for-service plan but in a way that keeps the premium in check.
Despite potential defects, Mr. Reischauer argues that the Administration's tentative proposal would do more good than harm. It takes at least a half-step toward competition and adds a desperately needed drug benefit. Of course, that drug benefit would place a heavy toll on general revenues, guaranteeing a run-in with Republicans. Campaign 2000 may shape up as a test whether the Democrats can sell a expensive drug benefit for the elderly better than the Republicans can sell an expensive tax cut for everyone else.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); ELECTION ISSUES; MEDICARE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MEDICARE (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); TAX LAW (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1999



212 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Adds 6 Chinese Sites to List That Alerts Computer Sellers

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 9

 BODY:
In an effort to prevent sensitive technology from being used by the Chinese military, the Commerce Department has told exporters that shipments to six missile and nuclear sites in China will require Federal approval.
The sites -- which include research institutes -- were publicly identified last month, when their names and addresses were published in the Federal Register. The move came the same week a select Congressional committee, headed by Representative Christopher Cox, Republican of California, criticized the Commerce Department for not being vigilant enough in policing exports of technology to China. 
 In late 1995, President Clinton decided to relax export controls on some high-performance computers and transferred responsibility for screening buyers of these computers from the Government to exporters. The White House promised to create a program to help them and began to compile a list of foreign military and nuclear sites that would still require Federal approval.
The list first appeared in 1997, with over a dozen sites, including some in Russia and India.
R. Roger Majak, the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration, said that of the six new entities on the list, most were added after American companies inquired about possible sales months ago.
He said that the delay in adding the six were caused by the Administration's desire to be cautious in labeling foreign sites, as well as by the process of getting consent from a handful of other Federal agencies.
Gary Milhollin, the director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, a nonprofit watchdog group affiliated with the University of Wisconsin, said all six sites have long been known to be involved in nuclear or missile work and should have been on the list earlier.
In the wake of the release of the Cox Committee report on China's acquisition of American technology, and as Congress begins to weigh its recommendations, the export of powerful computers has emerged as a particularly nettlesome issue.
Almost 150 advanced computers were sold to commercial buyers in China under the relaxed rules in 1996 and 1997. Hundreds more have been sold since then, but under tighter rules imposed by Congress.
Given the role of the state in China's economy, it is not easy to tell whether China's military gained access to technology bought by commercial customers. Mr. Cox told a Senate hearing last month about China's "application of U.S. high-performance computers to nuclear weapons applications."
But Mr. Majak said that the Administration's position was: "There is no evidence that any American computers have been used by China for nuclear weapons purposes."
On Thursday, the Senate Banking Committee, which has jurisdiction over export controls, is to hear from Mr. Cox and the select committee's ranking Democrat, Norm Dicks, of Washington State. The committee's unanimous report included a recommendation that Congress renew the Export Administration Act, which expired in 1994.
Last year, during President Clinton's visit to China, Beijing agreed for the first time to allow checks on American imports. But the Cox Committee said the agreement was "wholly inadequate" in general and "useless" with regard to computers.
The Administration, citing Beijing's concerns about its sovereignty, did not allow the committee to disclose details of the agreement.
But a copy of the agreement, labeled "secret," shows that inspections are left to the discretion of Beijing. The agreement says that Chinese officials will conduct inspections "on a case-by-case basis" and "if personnel and resources permit." Officials from the United States Embassy "will be invited, as necessary, to participate" in the checks, it says.
Dan Hoydysh, the director of trade policy for Unisys Corporation, a computer manufacturer, said that some of the Cox Committee's ideas were commendable, but its advice on what kinds of computers need to be strictly controlled was "really outdated." And he said the committee's call for tighter inspections of advanced computers sold to China was "not feasible" because projected computer sales worldwide were "literally in the hundreds of thousands."
On Friday, he and other computer executives are to meet at the White House with Administration officials to discuss their concerns. They are likely to find a receptive audience.
Soon after he took office in 1993, President Clinton wrote a computer executive that "one reason I ran for President was to tailor export controls to the realization of a post-cold war world."
Easing controls, Mr. Clinton added, "can help unleash our companies to compete successfully in the global market."
The Cox Committee has raised the question of whether the Clinton Administration's emphasis on global competition has been consistent with American national security.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT COX COMMITTEE (70%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); INDIA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MISSILES; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EXPORT TRADE (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); JURISDICTION (64%); 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF CHRISTOPHER COX (79%); BILL CLINTON (57%); NORMAN D DICKS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1999



213 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: WASHINGTON MEMO;
Clinton Tailors Legacy But Kosovo Isn't Fabric

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 9

 BODY:
Six weeks ago, as NATO leaders met in Washington, commentators and White House officials described the war in Kosovo as big casino for Bill Clinton -- the pivotal moment of his Presidency.
Today, as the pieces of a political settlement fell slowly into place, as if in stop-action photography, the domestic political impact of the fighting in the Balkans seems sure to be less dramatic. 
 A defeat or a quagmire might well have damaged Mr. Clinton's reputation severely; his poll ratings had begun to sag, slowly but surely, when no end to the conflict could be discerned.
But a victory, if that is the right word for the outcome of a war that nobody really won, appears unlikely to improve the President's standing.
"Success, such as it is, will not fundamentally reshape people's views of Bill Clinton," said Andrew Kohut of the Pew Research Center, a polling organization. "Americans saw this war as an important event, and they think the President did the right thing morally. But they never thought our national interests were at stake, as they thought they were during the gulf war."
Stephen Hess, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who has been watching Presidents for decades, said in April, "Kosovo and the Balkans will consume his Presidency." He revised that opinion today, conceding that "things undoubtedly changed."
The President, Mr. Hess said, "did lose that small window of opportunity with the Republicans in Congress right after the impeachment trial, when they might have agreed on a small domestic-policy agenda."
"But that was never central," he continued, "and it's clear now that this will not be a defining event. The sand is running out of the hourglass, his term is coming to an end, and I doubt that we'll see any great change in his legacy over the next 18 months."
Ultimately, that will be up to the historians to decide. They are still arguing over the accomplishments of James K. Polk. But in the near term, the President will gain few points with voters or with Congress, where many members already regard him as a figure whose powers decline with each day. Relative success in Kosovo, even substantial success, will not change that.
There appears to be no sense of elation, either in Washington or elsewhere in the country, that the Kosovo bombing is coming to an end.
It is not yet clear how many refugees will be resettled in Kosovo, at what cost, for how long, with what degree of safety. Keeping 7,000 American troops in Kosovo and helping to rebuild the Balkans could cost the United States $15 billion.
And there is no telling how long the force will have to stay to keep the Kosovo Albanians and the Serbs from each others' throats. Mr. Clinton promised that the American military would be out of Bosnia in a year; troops have been there three and a half years, and they are not about to leave soon.
Even a relatively clear-cut victory, of course, carries no guarantee of immediate political benefit. President Bush, the victor of the gulf war, went down to defeat by Mr. Clinton not too long thereafter, as public attention swung from foreign policy to domestic economic problems.
Nonetheless, Vice President Al Gore appears to be one of the beneficiaries of the evolving settlement.
It would have been difficult for a man so closely identified with Mr. Clinton and his policies to campaign in the midst of a war that dragged on and on. The example of Hubert H. Humphrey in the campaign of 1968, during the Vietnam stalemate, has been much on his mind.
For Mr. Clinton, the war provided a welcome distraction from his impeachment trial, a chance to take the offensive as commander in chief after having been on the defensive so long as an admitted philanderer and accused of perjury.
The irony, of course, is that his approval ratings went up while he was on trial, and fell slightly, from about 61 percent to about 53 percent in some polls, during the war. A Washington Post/ABC News poll taken last week, while peace talks were going on, found the country roughly evenly divided on whether it had been wise for the United States to get involved in Kosovo.
Although Mr. Clinton himself never went all out to identify his Presidency with the Balkans, he came close, especially in a speech in April to the American Society of Newspaper Editors.
On that occasion, he said NATO was engaged in "a great battle between the forces of integration and the forces of disintegration, the forces of globalism versus tribalism, of oppression against empowerment." He warned that the road ahead could be long and hard.
He did not hammer away at that theme, however, like his British counterpart, Prime Minister Tony Blair, who talked constantly about Kosovo and its importance, both on national television and in Parliament.
Mr. Blair also took a firm policy line from the beginning, arguing publicly and privately that the alliance must at least consider the use of ground troops to keep the pressure on President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia.
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, a Social Democrat, and his foreign minister, Joschka Fischer, a member of the Green Party, also took strong public stands, despite opposition from some elements within their parties.
Mr. Clinton was proven right, at least within the domestic political context. His advisers told him that as long as he did not commit ground troops and as long as there were no significant casualties among air crews, he could do as he thought best without fearing a backlash at home. As one aide put it, "We thought we had enough support in the country and on the Hill to keep at it for a long time, as long as we didn't cross those lines."
What in fact happened, Mr. Hess argued, is that people lost interest. Mr. Hess kept a tally of the number of minutes each week the three main broadcast networks devoted to Kosovo. At the end of April and beginning of May, the total was 215 minutes. Then it fell, to 180, to 63, and finally, when he stopped keep track in mid-May, it reached a low of 55 minutes.
One of the few things that caused an uptick was the accidental bombing of the Chinese embassy, which may have suggested to some people that vital American interests were indeed becoming involved in the Balkan fighting. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (97%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); ALBANIA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); UNITED STATES (99%); SERBIA (97%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); ALBANIA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); DESERT STORM (73%); REFUGEES (73%); HISTORY (73%); ARMED FORCES (60%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1999



214 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Narita Journal;
Thanks to Farmers, Airport Grows Like Bonsai

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: NARITA, Japan, June 4

 BODY:
When he feeds his chickens or tends his eggplants beside the huge jumbo jets at Narita International Airport, Shoji Shimamura seems a puny, Quixotic figure with all the chance of victory of a mosquito challenging an elephant.
Yet the water here must breed extraordinary mosquitoes. Mr. Shimamura and a handful of other farmers have lately scored yet another triumph over the elephant, delaying expansion of Narita and adding to its reputation as one of the world's most catastrophic airports. 
 The upshot of Mr. Shimamura's battle is that greater Tokyo -- the world's largest metropolitan area, with some 35 million people living within 40 miles of the Imperial Palace -- still has an international airport with a single runway. And it is an airport, with its barbed wire, riot police and guard towers, that on the outside has the ambiance of a prison.
The feuding over Narita has been going on for 34 years, and riots at the site in the 1970's left five people dead and 8,000 hurt. Partly because of that grim history, there is far more airplane exhaust in the air than understanding.
"Now they're threatening that planes will fly right over my house here," Mr. Shimamura said bitterly as he sat at his kitchen table after his evening chores. "So isn't it natural for me to be stronger in my resistance than ever, for me to be even more against the airport than ever?"
There are also perhaps some larger lessons hiding among Mr. Shimamura's eggplants. His ability to hold up a vast project like Narita, at incalculable economic costs for Japan, underscores the difficulties that the Japanese political process has in creating losers.
Japanese society has been outstanding in sharing losses, in cutting benefits equally to get through hard times. But it has not been so good at picking out a few people to hurl out of the lifeboat so that the others can survive, and these days there is a growing conviction in Japan that this is what is needed.
Many argue that to revive its economy, Japan needs a brutal industrial restructuring that will slash employees at big companies and end protections that keep inefficient businesses alive. Yet the story of Narita Airport underscores that just because consensus is highly valued in Japan does not mean that it is easily achieved, and that chaos can erupt when change is made without consensus.
The airport feuding erupted when Government officials announced in 1965 that they would build a three-runway airport at Narita, a bit more than an hour's drive from Tokyo.
The announcement would have been normal enough in America, but in Japan it was seen as arrogant and high-handed. Officials were expected to consult first with farmers, asking them for cooperation and spending months soliciting their views.
So the angry farmers refused to cooperate, and the Government then compounded their anger by trying to seize the land. Leftist students backed the farmers, and the resulting riots delayed the opening of the airport until 1978.
Even then, it had just a single runway, and security costs have helped make landing fees and air shipping bills some of the most expensive in the world. Moreover, with just one runway there is a desperate shortage of landing slots. Airlines that have rights at Narita have been able to charge relatively high fares because they face limited competition.
"We're still trying to get a second runway in place," Yoshijiro Hira yama, a vice president of Narita's airport authority, said with a sigh. "Japan is co-hosting the World Cup soccer matches in 2002, and we'll have so many visitors that it's very important that we have a second runway in place by then."
But in recent years, Mr. Hirayama and other officials have changed tactics, emphasizing conciliation and dialogue. They have pledged not to use force and, publicly at least, they put on sweet smiles when speaking of farmers like Mr. Shimamura.
Charm seems to have worked better than bulldozers, and airport officials are winning the public relations war. Some 260,000 people have signed a petition in favor of building a second runway, and many of the farmers have agreed to sell out.
The problem is that Mr. Shimamura's three acres still sit squarely in the path of the planned 8,200-foot second runway, and he refuses to budge. In fact, he refuses even to talk to the airport officials.
So last month, Narita officials gave up their plan of having that runway in place by March 2001. Instead, they are talking about building a 7,200-foot second runway by 2002, dodging the property of Mr. Shimamura and one of his equally obstinate neighbors.
The problem is that even the shorter runway would include a tiny parcel that is one eighty-second owned by an opponent of the airport, Shohei Horikoshi. He declined to discuss his plans, but he may be able to use his tiny share -- the equivalent of a few clods of dirt -- to block the runway.
In any case, a 7,200-foot runway is too short for jumbo jets, and 90 percent of the flights to Narita now use jumbo jets. Still, the airport authority says the jumbo jets can continue to use the original runway and additional flights can use smaller planes on the second runway.
"We think it is possible to make it work," said Keita Arakaki, a manager at the airport authority.
It may seem odd that in a society like Japan that so treasures harmony, a handful of farmers should block what seems to be overwhelming public approval of the airport expansion. But to farmers like Mr. Shimamura, the breach of propriety came from the Government's side and everything has flowed from that.
"It's the difference between the Japanese people and the Japanese Government," Mr. Shimamura's wife, Fujiko, fumed. "Ordinary people apologize to each other all the time and are very polite and considerate. We all try to live in harmony. But the Government has all the power, and it uses it to try to get its way. And that's the fundamental problem here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Because of opposition from Shoji Shimamura and a handful of other farmers in the vicinity, Narita International Airport, visible at the horizon, has struggled for years to expand beyond one runway. (Nicholas D. Kristof/The New York Times)
 
Map of shows location of the Narita International Airport: Narita International Airport serves metropolitan Tokyo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK JETS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; NARITA (JAPAN); JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TOKYO INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NARITA, JAPAN); AGRICULTURE; FARMERS AIRPORTS (95%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); RIOTS (88%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (77%); AIRLINES (73%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D SHOJI SHIMAMURA (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1999



215 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Chase Manhattan Relocation Puts 2,000 L.I. Jobs in Doubt

BYLINE: By KATHERINE E. FINKELSTEIN 

 BODY:
Chase Manhattan Bank plans to relocate two customer service centers from Jericho, N.Y., to cities in Texas, Arizona and Florida, bank officials said yesterday, in a move that leaves 2,000 workers in doubt about their future.
Ken Herz, a spokesman for the bank, said the decision was made to capitalize on a rapidly growing labor pool and expanding customer base beyond New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. 
 It will be at least six months before employees at the two centers, on Long Island, who were informed of the decision on Tuesday morning, will learn of their fate. While Mr. Herz would not comment on how many workers would be either relocated or dismissed, he said that the bank's priority was to preserve as many jobs as possible.
"At the end of the day, we would like to offer everyone relocation," he said. "And we will offer it to the extent that we can."
The jobs include 900 customer service representatives and other support positions, Mr. Herz said.
Mr. Herz said Chase Manhattan made its decision in part because its leases for the two sites in Jericho were to expire next spring and in the fall of 2001.
Some workers will be moved to other sites on Long Island and in Brooklyn, while others will be offered the chance to relocate to Arlington, Tex., Tempe, Ariz., and Tampa, Fla., Mr. Herz said. Those who choose not to relocate will receive job-search counseling and training grants of up to $2,500, he said.
The 20-acre site in Arlington will be a 175,000-square-foot center that the company estimates will cost $36 million to build and start up. While the company will get some tax relief in Arlington, Mr. Herz said the incentives had little to do with the move.
"Incentives don't make a bad deal a good deal," he said.
Chase Manhattan has been one of Long Island's largest employers, with 7,700 workers in Jericho, Hicksville, Garden City and Lake Success. While politicians expressed disappointment with the bank's decision yesterday, they remained upbeat about the local economy.
United States Representative Peter T. King, a Republican from Nassau County, said that bank officials told him that about half of the 2,000 jobs would be lost in the move.
"Losing 1,000 jobs is never easy," Mr. King said. "These are middle-income families. But for the most part, the Long Island economy is doing very well. We're certainly much better off than we were five years ago, when jobs were racing South." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERICHO (NY); ARLINGTON (TEX); TEMPE (ARIZONA); TAMPA (FLA); UNITED STATES (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS CUSTOMER SERVICE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); FAMILY (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: FINKELSTEIN, KATHERINE E PETER T KING (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1999



216 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 9; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: AT THE MOVIES;
The Word Is: Not a Word

BYLINE: By James Sterngold 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, June 10

 BODY:
April Grace is understandably thrilled at getting the biggest break in her acting career, a part opposite Tom Cruise in the movie "Magnolia," and she expresses delight at being able to talk with a reporter about her breakthrough.
What part does she play? "I'm not supposed to say that," Ms. Grace (above) said. 
 Well, what kind of character is it? "I can't really answer that, either," she said, smiling awkwardly, "other than to say she's a really intense woman."
O.K., so what was it like working with Mr. Cruise?
"You'll have to ask the studio," said Ms. Grace, clearly eager to share but feeling constrained. "But I can tell you it was a great experience. It was a great group of people to work with."
Some filmmakers court publicity with a maddening persistence, and then there are those whose movies seem like shadows of rumors. "Eyes Wide Shut," directed by Stanley Kubrick and starring Mr. Cruise and Nicole Kidman, is one such film. Another is "Magnolia," written and directed by Paul Thomas Anderson, whose last film was "Boogie Nights," about a group of kindly pornographers. "Magnolia," which is being produced by New Line, is scheduled for release at Christmas, but don't tell anyone.
Mr. Anderson has been obsessively secretive about the movie -- in part, people who know him say, because he felt his last movie was misrepresented in the press before its release -- and Ms. Grace, 32, who has made appearances in the film "Playing by Heart" and on television in "Chicago Hope" and "N.Y.P.D. Blue," has had to take an oath of silence, along with everyone else. She is an exuberant woman, and the effort is an obvious strain, but she plays the part.
Over lunch, at which she nibbled about three leaves of a Caesar salad, she spoke energetically about the difficulties of being a black actress in Hollywood, about her love of singing, about the tendency of directors to cast her as a crack addict and about growing up in Florida, but passed when the subject of her movie came up. She had company.
Pat Kingsley, Mr. Cruise's publicity agent, said: "He's just not talking about it. This is an unbilled performance. He just wanted to work with the director."
Bumble Ward, Mr. Anderson's public relations agent, commented: "All I can tell you is it's an ensemble piece set in present-day San Fernando Valley. We can't say anything further because it's so complicated. He's not talking about the movie yet."
But some intensive sleuthing produced the following. The movie is a fragmentary drama about several different relationships, a group of loose threads that eventually pull together. Mr. Cruise's relationship with Ms. Grace's character, named Guinevere, is dissected slowly. The movie also stars William H. Macy, Julianne Moore, Jason Robards, John C. Reilly, Philip Baker Hall and Felicity Huffman, among others. Mr. Anderson wrote the script and directed.
Ms. Grace did let out one slip. Of Mr. Anderson, she said, "He's a wonderful director to work for."
 
A Violin's Odyssey
Epic films are not exactly the order of the day in Hollywood, where the focus tends to be, with few exceptions, on teen flicks ("Austin Powers"), scatological humor for younger audiences ("Austin Powers") and the wizardry of special effects ("Star Wars"). That's one reason, anyway, "The Red Violin" stands out.
The movie, which opens in New York and Los Angeles on Friday (review, page 12), spans three centuries and three continents. It is filled with passion and drama, thievery, an early death, greed, suspense, injustice, betrayal and more passion and drama. There are Gypsies, Maoists, monks and millionaires. It is, in short, one of the most ambitious movies to come out this year, so it is understandable that it took five years for its director, Francois Girard (above), to make.
All that for what the 36-year-old Mr. Girard described as a metaphor. "It's about a very central human obsession," he said. "We are all trying to leave some proof or some traces of our presence here."
In more ways than one. The movie appears to be an effort by Mr. Girard, who made "Thirty-Two Short Films About Glenn Gould," to leave a mark as a filmmaker with a sweeping vision. And the story itself is about immortality, of a sort.
Mr. Girard, who was also the co-author of "The Red Violin," said the film took root from a conversation he had with a friend in London in 1994. They discussed the idea of how an object travels through time and came up with the notion of a story with a nonlinear chronology. "Fragmented time and space, those are the prerogative of the filmmaker," Mr. Girard said.
The movie follows the journey of a famous violin through its history, telling the story of the enduring love that inspired the creation of the violin by Nicolo Bussotti (Carlo Cecchi) in 17th-century Italy. He intends the violin to be a gift for his soon-to-be-born son. When the child and his wife die during the birth, he imbues the instrument with his grief and aspirations, and these qualities then infect the lives of each of the instrument's later owners.
In contemporary Montreal, the violin is up for auction, and a dogged researcher, Charles Morritz (Samuel L. Jackson), explores its history and past owners. The movie is a dramatization of what he discovers, as the violin journeys from Italy to an Austrian monastery, to London in 1893, via some Gypsies, to China in the thrall of Mao's Cultural Revolution, where it is almost destroyed before being rescued by Xiang Pei (Sylvia Chang).
Once the Cultural Revolution has passed, the violin is sent to Montreal to be auctioned, with heirs of all its previous owners present to try to buy it back. But now it has infected Mr. Jackson's character with its passion, and a new adventure begins just as the movie ends.
"I identify with Charles Morritz," Mr. Girard said. "He's the man through whom I'm looking at the violin and all the things it represents."
He added, "It's about how can love survive."
 
Waiting for Weirdness
The runaway success of "Star Wars: Episode I -- The Phantom Menace" has been particularly good news for Rob Burman. It is not just that the latest installment in the Star Wars series is breaking box-office records but also that this is the first time in a while that a major movie driven by special effects has done so spectacularly well, particularly one with characters that look so odd. Odd is good for Mr. Burman because he and Sticks and Stones, the company he runs with his wife, specialize in unusual makeup design, and they are struggling with a recession in movie production.
"Let's just say that we're coming up on the second worst year in our history, and we've been doing this for more than 20 years" Mr. Burman said. "It can't last forever, I'm sure, but I would say out of 35 competitors in Los Angeles, three have jobs right now."
He added that his own company had ballooned to about 22 employees at its peak several years ago and that it is now down to just him and his wife. The American economy may be booming, but Hollywood is hurting.
To get inflated costs under control, most studios are cutting back on the number of movies they produce and on the overall budgets. The Walt Disney Company, for instance, has said it is cutting as much as $600 million from its annual moviemaking budgets.
This is having a pronounced impact, particularly on the thousands of little companies that provide services from catering to makeup. Jack Kyser, an economist with the Los Angeles Economic Development Corporation, said that state figures show employment in the movie industry in Los Angeles has declined from a peak of 142,500 in February 1998 to 127,200 as of April 1999, the latest period for which figures are available, and that the decline is continuing.
"It's been a very pronounced slowdown and it just goes on," Mr. Kyser said.
He added that there were 637 feature movies initiated in Los Angeles County in 1997 and 510 last year. This year he estimates there will be about 480, based on current trends.
"The whole production cost structure has gotten out of hand, and this is the response," Mr. Kyser said. "Our feeling is you'll see another employment slowdown this year and very likely in 2000."
He added that the slowdown is more pronounced than the official figures show because many small companies provide services that do not show up in the state data.
Mr. Burman said he hoped that the success of "Star Wars" would encourage more big budget pictures with creatures and the like, requiring elaborate makeup. "No more of these romantic comedy clones, please," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MAGNOLIA (MOVIE); RED VIOLIN, THE (MOVIE); STAR WARS: EPISODE I-THE PHANTOM MENACE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: STICKS AND BONES (CO)

ORGANIZATION: STICKS AND BONES (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); FLORIDA, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); COCAINE (50%); 

PERSON: ANDERSON, PAUL THOMAS; STERNGOLD, JAMES; GRACE, APRIL; GERARD, FRANCOIS; BURMAN, ROB TOM CRUISE (90%); NICOLE KIDMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999



217 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Yield on 30-Year Treasury Keeps Climbing, to 6.06%

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Argentina's Under Secretary of Finance said yesterday that foreign investors still seemed to be uncomfortable about Latin America, leaving interest rates "unusually high" in the region.
But, at the same time, he argued that Argentina could weather a rise in short-term interest rates by the United States Federal Reserve. 
 In the Treasury market, bond prices fell and long-term interest rates moved higher after Japan reported surprisingly strong economic growth in the first quarter, leading some investors to worry that a revival of global growth would ignite inflation in the United States.
With many investors already expecting the Fed to raise the overnight lending rate between banks at the end of the month, the yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose to 6.06 percent yesterday, the highest in more than a year, from 6.02 percent on Wednesday; the price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 14/32 , to 88 30/32 .
Today, the Commerce Department is scheduled to release its retail sales report for May. If the report is strong, as some forecasters expect, it might help drive interest rates higher because it will be another sign that the economy is not slowing enough to curb inflation.
In an address to money managers at a bond conference held by J. P. Morgan Securities in New York, Miguel Alberto Kiguel, the Argentine Under Secretary of Finance, noted that the spreads between interest rates on Latin American debt and those on comparable United States Treasuries "are higher than historical levels." And, he said, that spread reflected "a level of discomfort about the region that does not fit with the fundamentals of the region."
He also acknowledged being asked tough questions by foreign investors, including "What other shock might come?" Mr. Kiguel did not make any predictions, but did say, "My concern is, when will the international situation improve and help Argentina?"
He said that these spreads had begun to widen again recently after the Fed said in mid-May that it was leaning toward raising rates if inflation barometers continued to rise and the economy did not cool. "The Fed is making them more nervous," Mr. Kiguel said of investors.
According to bond indexes kept by J. P. Morgan, the spread between Latin American bonds and comparable United States Treasuries is now 8.74 percentage points, up from 7.65 before the Fed said it had shifted its bias toward a rate increase.
In Argentina, the spread is up to 7.59 percentage points, from 6.60, according to the index, while the spread in Brazil has jumped to 10.41 percentage points, from 9.20 in May.
Historically, a jump in United States interest rates has been bad for emerging markets because it raises a country's cost of borrowing and can drive foreign investors away. Flows of foreign capital into Argentina have been a key engine of the nation's economic cycle, Mr. Kiguel said, "so what happens to interest rates in the region will be critical."
In addition, any rate increase that slows American economic growth will also curb growth in Latin America as Americans buy fewer of the region's exports.
But even as Mr. Kiguel expressed these concerns, he said that a rate increase by the Fed -- seemingly anticipated by most analysts when its policy makers meet June 29 and 30 -- would not have a significant negative effect.
Indeed, he argued, if it was clear that the Fed would raise rates only a half-point in two steps -- and the United States economy began to show signs of slowing -- then the spread between Argentine and Treasury rates should narrow more than enough to offset the rate increase.
Jose Luis Daza, the managing director for emerging markets at J. P. Morgan Securities, forecast continuing volatility in those markets as investors await the Fed's decision.
Still, Mr. Daza said, "when the threat of inflation is eliminated," he was predicting an emerging-markets rally. In three months, he expects the spread in the Morgan index to narrow to 9 percentage points, and, in 12 months, to just 6.5 percentage points. The spread is now 11.33 percentage points.
Mr. Kiguel said that Argentina still needed to raise $2.1 billion from global debt markets this year.
But, he said, Argentina should have no problem doing this, "even in a rough environment."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since February. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (74%); JPM (LSE) (74%); 8634 (TSE) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (74%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (74%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; ARGENTINA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); BRAZIL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); RETAIL SALES (52%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN MIGUEL ALBERTO KIGUEL (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999



218 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Dow Drops for Third Day As Interest Rates Edge Up

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Stocks staged a broad retreat yesterday as long-term interest rates climbed another notch.
All three main gauges succumbed to the selling pressure, which left the Nasdaq composite index with a loss of 34.73 points, or 1.4 percent, to 2,484.62, wiping out the bulk of Wednesday's sizable advance. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average slumped for the third straight day, falling 164 points at one point before a late rally cut the loss to 69.02 points, or seven-tenths of a percent, to 10,621.27.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 15.82 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,302.82.
"Rising interest rates, an overly strong economy and a likely increase by the Federal Reserve are depressing stocks," said Frederick Taylor, chief investment officer at the United States Trust Company.
Investors were uneasy ahead of Government figures to be released today on retail sales and producer prices for May, reports likely to weigh heavily on Federal Reserve policy deliberations at the end of the month. Most analysts expect the central bank to raise overnight lending rate between banks by a quarter-point, a belief buttressed by Japan's report yesterday that its economy not only expanded in the first quarter for the first time since the summer of 1997 but did so at a blistering annual pace of nearly 8 percent.
The Japanese recovery, even if less robust than the statistics suggested, was regarded as one less reason for the Fed to worry about the world economy when it considers whether to raise interest rates at home.
Scrutiny of the Fed for clues to its intentions has become so intense, analysts said, that the Dow's late-session bounce reflected the fact that Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, chose to avoid even a hint of tighter credit in delivering the commencement address at Harvard.
Byron R. Wien, chief United States strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, is one of a dwindling minority who thought the Fed would hold off.
"I don't think they'll raise rates at the end of the month," he said, adding that the Fed would probably have to raise rates by a half-point during the second half of the year.
And higher rates, he contended, do the most damage to stocks of fast-growing companies that until recently have propelled the long bull market. In coming months, Mr. Wien predicted, investors will be more partial to less expensive, more pedestrian stocks and "value will do better than growth."
Indeed, such a pattern was in evidence yesterday as drug, financial and consumer stocks were among the most heavily battered of blue chips.
Procter & Gamble fell 3, to 89 1/4, despite being maintained as a "top pick" by Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. The stock lost 2 9/16 on Wednesday when it detailed job cuts associated with its reorganization.
Meanwhile, Alcoa and International Paper, two hard-core cyclicals whose run-ups this year have elevated their price-earnings ratios, were the Dow's two biggest gainers, rising 1 3/4, to 64 3/4, and 1 11/16 , to 53 3/4, respectively.
The rise in long-term interest rates, which left the yield of the 30-year Treasury bond at 6.06 percent, the highest since April 1998, put pressure on bank, brokerage and other financial stocks. J. P. Morgan shed 2 5/8, to 127 1/4; Merrill Lynch fell 2 9/16 , to 70, and American Express dropped 2, to 123 1/8.
Pfizer was the biggest casualty in the drug group, skidding 5 3/8, to 99 9/16 , as analysts lowered earnings estimates. Nearly 16 million shares changed hands, nearly quadruple the recent average. The company's shares fell 6 1/16 on Wednesday as the Government restricted use of a new antibiotic to severely ill patients.
Microsoft was the biggest drag on the S.& P. 500, falling 2 7/16 , to 79 7/8. Then came Pfizer; Merck, down 2, to 67 7/8; General Electric down 1 11/16 , to 101; Cisco Systems, down 3 5/16 , to 110 7/16 , and America Online down 5 1/2, to 105 1/2.
With the approach of today's data on the economy, many investors remained on the sidelines. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 716.6 million, compared with the even more sluggish 662 million on Wednesday.
Nearly twice as many Big Board issues fell as rose and more than twice as many made new lows as new 52-week highs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%); PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (52%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (50%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRODUCER PRICES (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RETAIL SALES (68%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999



219 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: Waiting for a Final Resting Place;
Friends Seek Proper Burial for a Former Tunnel Dweller

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
For 13 years, Jose Camacho lived in the cavernous dark of an abandoned Amtrak railroad tunnel under Riverside Park, part of a subterranean clan of homeless people who scavenged their existence from the city's leavings. He died last month at 54 in a sunny one-bedroom in the Bronx that he finally secured in 1996 through the kindness of strangers and a rare Government subsidy.
Now, death has made Mr. Camacho homeless again. Unless his decomposed body can be officially identified and money raised for a funeral, a city morgue will send him to a potter's field on Hart Island for an anonymous burial. 
 But in death, as in life, Mr. Camacho is not friendless. A city police detective moved by the story of his climb from the depths and a photographer who documented his tunnel shantytown are trying to give Mr. Camacho a grave of his own.
They have joined forces with the Coalition for the Homeless, the nonprofit agency that helped Mr. Camacho and other tunnel denizens win an unusual set of Federal housing subsidies in the mid-1990's, when Amtrak's reclamation of the rail line doomed their underground dwellings. Once again, the effort involves overcoming obstacles of poverty and paperwork to break through the isolation of the longtime homeless.
Though no one doubts that the body in the morgue is that of Mr. Camacho, who was disabled by heart disease, the city considers a photograph inadequate for formal identification. Many days had passed by the the time his death came to the notice of the superintendent of his building on College Avenue in Morrisania on May 25. Usually the city keeps an unclaimed body for no more than two weeks. But Floyd Coor, the police detective working on the case, said he prevailed on a friend at the morgue to wait a little longer.
Mr. Camacho, who was 16 when he followed his dreams to New York City from Puerto Rico, had no contact with relatives and fewer than a dozen telephone numbers in the address book found by the police in his lovingly decorated, meticulously kept apartment. Most of the numbers seemed to be out of date.
But one belonged to Margaret Morton, a photographer and associate professor of art at Cooper Union who had befriended Mr. Camacho while working on "The Tunnel" (Yale University Press, 1995), a book of her black-and-white photographs with text drawn from interviews with residents of the shadowy, two-mile stretch of unused rail line in Manhattan.
"For me, Jose was a symbol of the dignity of survival," said Ms. Morton, recalling her astonishment at the ordered domesticity inside the tiny plywood shack Mr. Camacho had built at the south end of the tunnel near 72d Street and the Hudson River. Dishes were neatly stacked on a tablecloth, his bed was made, and pictures hung on bright white walls, including a luminous detail from Seurat's "Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte."
Just outside, in darkness occasionally pierced by a shaft of light from a distant air vent, Mr. Camacho cooked his meals on a campfire grill and showered under a coffee can with water he hauled and heated daily.
In the "topside" world, he had spent years in menial jobs, including mopping floors in a restaurant and loading trucks in the garment center for a textile factory. But the factory closed at the end of the 1970's, leaving him without money for rent, according to the account he gave Ms. Morton. Alcohol, sleep and the daily demands of making a home in a rat-infested tunnel now kept him going, he told her.
"He really didn't expect to have a life beyond the tunnel," Ms. Morton said, "and when he did, he was overjoyed."
The program that made it possible was established in response to another group of subterranean New Yorkers, an estimated 1,500 living in the subway system in tunnels, squalid utility rooms and narrow passageways between tracks.
In 1994, Henry Cisneros, then the Federal Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, was taken on a subway tour by an advocate for the homeless. Horrified when a flashlight beam revealed one such encampment, Mr. Cisneros asked one of the inhabitants what it would take to get him out of the subway system. The man replied with a question of his own: "Do you have an apartment for me?"
Within weeks, Mr. Cisneros had used an obscure emergency provision of Federal law to earmark 250 housing subsidy vouchers exclusively for subway dwellers. He also approved a $9 million grant for the program, the first created for such a specific group, saying it could be expanded if it were successful. In effect, Mr. Cisneros was using his discretion to jump subway dwellers to the head of the line for so-called Section 8 vouchers, which pay private landlords the difference between market rent and what a tenant in the program can pay.
But nine months later, when Ms. Morton alerted the Coalition for the Homeless to the plight of Amtrak tunnel dwellers, the organization discovered that only two of the special vouchers had been used. After contending that the tunnel homeless should also be eligible for the vouchers, the coalition discovered why the program had been languishing, said Mary Brosnahan, the executive director: cumbersome bureaucracy, complicated paperwork and mutual skepticism.
Many tunnel dwellers, fearful of the city's shelters, thought the offer of housing was too good to be true. Many city administrators seemed to think it was too hasty. They considered permanent housing for the homeless the last step in a process of rehabilitation for drug, alcohol and mental problems. Advocates for the homeless, by contrast, saw the voucher program as a chance to show that affordable housing, bolstered by support services, could come first.
Ms. Morton recalled a meeting in which officials from the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development insisted that the tunnel dwellers, dubbed "The Mole People," were not "housing-ready." Indignant, she showed them her book. "These people have completely built a home, furnished it, with books on the night stand," she recalled telling city administrators. "How could they not be housing-ready?"
Mr. Camacho was one of the first who applied for a voucher. "He had this amazing mixture of an extremely firm handshake and very shy smile," Ms. Brosnahan said. "There was this robustness of spirit to him."
In the end, apartments were found for 20 of 23 tunnel households helped by the coalition, she said. All but 46 of the 250 vouchers are currently in use, according to Peter Ragone, a spokesman for the Department of Housing and Urban Development, but there has been no follow-up study.
The program's history, Ms. Brosnahan said, illustrates why advocates for the homeless are frustrated by "boutique programs" created in the glare of publicity that do not lead to large-scale solutions.
Recent research by HUD found more poor people on waiting lists for all Government housing subsidies this year than last. In the recent strong economy, the HUD report said, rents have risen and the number of affordable units has dropped. Mr. Camacho's apartment, for example, is now likely to rent for more than the $732-a-month maximum allowed for a one-bedroom under the voucher program, according to Project Renewal, the nonprofit agency that helped him find it.
New York City transit police estimate that hundreds of homeless people still live in the subway tunnels, though they say the number is lower than it was in the mid-90's.
When Mr. Camacho was homeless, he was grateful for the tunnel, Ms. Morton said. He remained grateful for small things -- a cup of coffee, a pizza lunch, the holiday cards she sent him, which Detective Coor found in the apartment. It is because she remembers that gratitude that she keeps trying to get him a proper burial.
The city will reimburse a funeral home for about half of the cost of the funeral if it does not exceed $1,400, she said, but many funeral parlors demand that amount upfront. One exception in the Bronx offers a package for $750, including burial in New Jersey, in a "shared grave," five people deep.
"That troubled me," said Ms. Morton, adding that she still hopes that Mr. Camacho's estranged family comes forward, even at this late date. He told her that he had been unable to reach his sons from a marriage that ended almost 20 years ago, she said.
Meanwhile, Ms. Morton has asked Detective Coor to seek identifying records from St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, where Mr. Camacho was sometimes treated.
"Here's this guy who came from virtually nothing who got his life back together," the detective said.
The Coalition for the Homeless is ready to contribute $500 toward the burial. "Most people would have seen Jose as someone who was completely a lost cause," Ms. Brosnahan said. "An apartment allowed him to live out his life in peace and dignity."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The canvas-covered plywood shack, bottom photo, that Jose Camacho built in an abandoned tunnel and lived in for 13 years. Mr. Camacho had a kitchen, top, and bedroom, middle. Jose Camacho in the Bronx apartment he moved into in 1996 under a Federal housing program. The lawn chair and the Seurat print were from his tunnel home. ( Margaret Morton)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP); COALITION FOR THE HOMELESS NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP); COALITION FOR THE HOMELESS

GEOGRAPHIC: RIVERSIDE PARK (NYC); HART ISLAND (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS HOMELESSNESS (93%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (88%); VISUAL ARTISTS (88%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA; CAMACHO, JOSE; COOR, FLOYD; MORTON, MARGARET JOSE CAMACHO (95%); MARGARET MORTON (69%); HENRY GABRIEL CISNEROS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999



220 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: DEPLOYMENT;
Forging Link For Russians In the Chain Of Command

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 10

 BODY:
Western nations are considering new arrangements for military command to ease Russia's concerns about its place in the NATO-led security force in Kosovo, allied officials said today.
With the allied troops poised to enter Kosovo, the role of the Russians has emerged as one of the last hurdles to a durable settlement. 
 American and Russian generals are to take up the issue on Friday, and the matter is also receiving top-level attention: President Clinton called President Boris N. Yeltsin today to encourage a settlement, and Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott discussed the matter with Prime Minister Sergei Stepashin.
On the face of it, the two sides are faced with a contradiction.
Allied officials insist that Kosovar refugees will not come back unless they are protected by an effective force commanded by a NATO general. Giving the Russians a sector of their own to control, NATO officials add, would discourage the refugees from returning to that part of Kosovo and lead to a de facto partition.
But putting Russian troops under the control of a NATO general is out of the question to most Russian politicians, who have bitterly condemned the allied air strikes.
Nationalist sentiment against the alliance is running so high that today the Communist-dominated Parliament, in a lop-sided vote, urged that Viktor S. Chernomyrdin be stripped of his post as Russia's special envoy to Yugoslavia.
One simple way to resolve the issue would be to leave Russian soldiers out of the security force, which is known as KFOR. From a military perspective, they are not essential.
Politically, however, NATO wants Russians deployed, largely to prevent a further deterioration in Russian-Western relations.
Under one approach, Russian troops would support NATO forces in their own area but would not be under direct allied command. Instead the Russians would be under the overall supervision of the senior NATO general in Kosovo, a less rigid structure that is intended to mollify Moscow while upholding the principal of unity of command.
It is unclear whether Moscow might accept such an arrangement. But it is just one of a host of issues that remain to be settled.
Money is likely to be a big issue. Citing Russia's financial crisis and the military's lack of cash, Mr. Stepashin has proposed that the international community pay the cost of stationing Russians in Kosovo. Mr. Talbott said Moscow had yet to ask for funds and he declined to say whether Western nations might be willing to provide them.
Nor is it clear how many troops Russia plans to send. The Defense Minister, Igor Sergeyev, has spoken of up to 10,000 troops. But today the ministry talked about dispatching 2,500 paratroopers, a deployment that could take seven days or more.
To the consternation of NATO, the Russians have so far refused to go along with the kind of command structure they accepted in Bosnia, where Moscow has 1,300 peacekeepers. Formally, the Russians report to the Russian General Staff. But the troops are deployed in an American sector and as a practical matter are under the day-to-day supervision of a two-star American general.
Given its strident criticism of NATO's air attacks, the Kremlin appears to think that using the Bosnian arrangement in Kosovo would leave Moscow open to charges that it is cooperating too closely with the alliance.
The military talks on Friday will bring together Lieut. Gen. Robert H. Foglesong, a representative of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, with Col. Gen. Leonid Ivashov, the chief of the international division of the Russian Defense Ministry and a vociferous critic of NATO. Finding a solution "will take a combination of political will and very tough, serious work on the part of military experts," Mr. Talbott said.
It is also an especially important challenge for Mr. Talbott: He was one of the architects of the strategy to include the Russians in a Balkan settlement. On the other hand, he warned today that the Kosovo settlement could falter if the peacekeeping arrangements are flawed.
"If we get this wrong, KFOR is not going to work," Mr. Talbott said. "Unity of command is absolutely crucial."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); POLITICS (76%); REFUGEES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999



221 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Bush to Open in Iowa, Amid Texas-Size Hoopla

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 10

 BODY:
As big and noisy as the annual Pork Expo is for Iowa this weekend, the arrival there of Gov. George W. Bush as a front-running Presidential candidate who has yet to make his first major national speech is looming even larger.
The Texas Governor will formally touch down on Saturday in Cedar Rapids, brandishing incumbent-like trappings and perhaps dangerously high expectations, with more than 100 reporters in tow to hear his maiden address and signal the official opening of the year 2000 marathon to the nation. 
 Rarely has such an untested national candidate arrived in Iowa, the starting point in the grueling Presidential race, in such a theoretically favorable position as Mr. Bush. A generation ago, Jimmy Carter arrived there, famously carrying his own garment bag, to make the state a foundry for political underdogs.
Democratic Party leaders felt obliged to begin attacking Mr. Bush today, even before he landed, obviously respecting the long early lead he holds in the Republican field.
"It's clear plenty of people are looking to pounce," said David Beckwith, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, which is formally in an "exploratory" state. "We realize this is a hazardous situation, indeed. But the ground looks very fertile out there for Bush."
The nation would have to go back to a war hero, Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1952, to find someone this untested emerging this far ahead of his party's pack without being Vice President or having run for national office before, said Ralph Reed, the Republican campaign strategist.
"He arrives with the classic tension of the front-runner candidacy: he cannot afford to drift back toward the rest of the pack, but he has to get his hands dirty in grass-roots politics," Mr. Reed said.
In Mr. Bush's dense media shadow, three of his Republican challengers will be in Iowa at the same time, vying nearby in hopes of an overflow of attention before the Bush party, moving grandly as a Presidential entourage, flies on to New Hampshire to begin priming the second stage of the nominating competition.
"We want to thank the Governor for serving as our advance team this weekend," said Ari Fleischer, a spokesman for Elizabeth Dole, who will be working the annual state fairgrounds throng at the Pork Expo in Des Moines while Mr. Bush begins sketching his views before the nation. Mrs. Dole will be followed by two other rivals, former Gov. Lamar Alexander of Tennessee and Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio.
Other Republicans who made sure to visit Iowa this week in advance of the feared Bush tide included former Vice President Dan Quayle; Steve Forbes, the millionaire publisher; Gary Bauer, the religious conservative, and Patrick J. Buchanan, the television commentator. Mr. Buchanan demonstrated the power of the Iowa caucuses in 1996 when he finished a strong second to Bob Dole and went on to defeat Mr. Dole in the New Hampshire Republican primary before the party rallied round Mr. Dole in subsequent contests.
"The premium for a candidate in Iowa is that he seems to be at ease with the people and enjoy retail campaigning," said Bruce F. Nesmith, chief of political science at Coe College in Cedar Rapids.
Mr. Nesmith said numerous Bush endorsements from Iowa officials had been compounding "the general aura of inevitability" that the Governor bears upon arrival.
Clearly, the main event for Mr. Bush will be the Cedar Rapids stop and his speech at a barbecue in nearby Amana that his staff has been polishing for months as his campaign's initial template. While reaching out to the national mainstream, the Governor will be competing in a state where politics has a powerful constituency of social and religious conservatives. A half-dozen rivals are focusing on that vote, too, but Mr. Bush's supporters say he will show he is well prepared to boast such conservative credentials as a law he just signed in Texas requiring parental notification in cases of abortions for teen-agers.
Governor Bush and his record were lambasted here this morning by the Democratic Party leadership at a breakfast of political journalists. The party's co-chairmen, Roy Romer and Joe Andrews, described Mr. Bush as "anointed" but unproven, one of many incumbents who profited from the booming economy. The two Democrats wielded a 13-page critique of Mr. Bush's record as Governor, contending that "35 or 40 other governors" can claim his sort of progress. They predicted that, like the Titanic, Mr. Bush's maiden voyage could soon "hit the iceberg" of closer public scrutiny.
In a rejoinder, Mr. Beckwith, the Bush campaign spokesman, happily remarked, "The Democrats are panicking very, very early."
There are essentially two caucus races going on in Iowa, in the view of Dennis J. Goldford, chief of politics and international relations at Drake University in Des Moines.
"Who will be the establishment conservative candidate, Bush or Dole or Forbes? And who will emerge from the crowd of religious-social conservatives?" Mr. Goldford asked. "Right now, Bush is kind of sucking up all the political oxygen."
"But his difficulty is he doesn't want to be the inevitable candidate who came out of here like Walter Mondale," Professor Goldford added, referring to the damage suffered by Mr. Mondale in Iowa when his slippage as the front-runner in the 1984 Democratic race only fed the rival candidacy of Gary Hart.
Experts are hard pressed to explain the precise reasons why Mr. Bush is showing such a large early lead over the rest of the Republican field. Party professionals point to his popularity in a big state and the Republicans' general hunger to regain the White House.
While the Governor's polling numbers in the absence of campaigning have been strong with the public, a recent CBS News poll found that when questioners distinguished between Mr. Bush and his father, former President George Bush, the Governor's rating was lower. The younger Mr. Bush was rated 15 points higher when his father was never mentioned in the pattern of questions.
"He's going to have to start filling in the blanks," said Peverill Squire, a political science professor at the University of Iowa in Iowa City. "I can't think of anybody who has come into the state with such expectations."
Mr. Reed envisioned Mr. Bush entering the arena juggling the needs to be gaffe-proof in behavior and visionary enough in message to start justifying the early hyperbole. "And he needs to appear at ease, to be enjoying himself," Mr. Reed added to this tricky prescription. "He will."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the front-runner in the 2000 Republican Presidential race, visited with young cancer patients yesterday during a tour of the pediatric floor at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (88%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (95%); IOWA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (94%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (88%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); CONSERVATISM (73%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KASICH (58%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); ELIZABETH DOLE (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999



222 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-18
 
NATO Suspends Bombing As Serb Forces Withdraw
NATO halted its bombing of Yugoslavia after confirming that Serbian forces had begun to pull out from Kosovo under the peace plan. A1
 
 
The Security Council approved a resolution for a 50,000-strong NATO-led force to enter Kosovo to keep the peace and help refugees return; it also put the United Nations in administrative charge of the province. A12 

 
President Clinton said NATO had "done the right thing," but warned that as long as Slobodan Milosevic remained in power, Serbia would get no help in reconstruction. A1
 
 
American and NATO officials envision for Kosovo an international protectorate that will be part of Yugoslavia in name only and that may eventually become independent. A1
 
 
President Slobodan Milosevic spoke to his people in a televised address, wishing them a happy peace and hailing the Serbian servicemen who died as heroes. He said 462 soldiers and 114 members of the police forces had been killed. A12
 
 
President Clinton promised to ask Congress to finance security troops in Kosovo, a move that stopped House Republicans from barring money for the force. A15
 
 
Western nations are considering new arrangements for military command to ease Russian concerns about its place in the NATO-led force, allied officials said. A14
 
Kosovo Update A14
 
Dissident Crackdown in China
Fang Jue, 44, a businessman and former Government planner who distributed a pro-democracy manifesto, was sentenced in Beijing to four years in prison, the latest in a series of harsh steps against dissidents. A10
 
Opposition Gain in Indonesia
An unofficial sample showed that the opposition was likely to emerge from the voting on Monday in the strongest position to form a coalition government. But the sample also indicated that the governing party, Golkar, would remain a strong force. A10
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A20-30
 
Anti-Gang Loitering Law Is Ruled Unconstitutional
The Supreme Court, voting 6 to 3, struck down Chicago's anti-loitering law, saying it gave the police too much discretion. A1
 
Speaker Eases Off Gun Issue
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert said he would not press Republicans to vote for restrictions on firearms similar to those passed by the Senate. A29
 
Group Denied Tax Exemption
Officials of the Christian Coalition said the I.R.S. would not grant it tax-exempt status because of its political activities and, as a result, the coalition would be reorganized. A20
 
H.M.O. Recruiting Practices
The Government told H.M.O.'s to halt practices intended to sign up healthy elderly people and exclude the sick and disabled. And it threatened to fine H.M.O.'s that skimped on medically necessary care. A22
 
In Congress, a Bipartisan Step
Republicans and Democrats agreed that the House Ways and Means Committee would meet privately to explore bridging their differences on how to shore up Social Security. A24
 
Slight Progress on Health Goals
The United States has met only about 15 percent of the year 2000 health goals set 20 years ago by the Government, officials said, though progress has been made on 44 percent. A26
 
Money-Laundering Convictions
A Federal jury in Los Angeles delivered a split verdict in one of the biggest efforts to crack international drug money laundering, convicting three Mexican bankers and businessmen of conspiring to conceal millions of dollars in profits for traffickers. Three others were acquitted. A30
 
New Accounting Rules
The board that sets the rules for how cities and states keep their books approved a plan to require governments to include the value of roads, bridges and other infrastructure in their financial statements. A26
 
Missile Brings Down a Missile
The Pentagon reported a successful test of an anti-missile system, announcing that a 20-foot missile had slammed into a test rocket high above the New Mexico desert. A24
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-12
 
Giuliani Suggests Using Private Schools in Summer
Mayor Giuliani suggested that the Board of Education cope with anticipated overcrowding in summer school by sending students to parochial and private schools and private tutoring centers. Spokesmen for Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew and Peter F. Vallone, the City Council Speaker, rejected the idea, citing legal obstacles to the use of public money in the private sector. B1
 
Businessman Guilty of Fraud
Patrick R. Bennett, a businessman accused of orchestrating one of the largest financial swindles in American history, was convicted of fraud and money laundering, but not of running a Ponzi scheme, the charge at the heart of the indictment. B5
 
Herald Square Improvements
The city is planning to widen sidewalks, add crosswalks, eliminate a lane of traffic and extend islands to make it safer and less nerve-racking for the 100 million pedestrians who cross the square each year. B1
 
New Jersey Abortion Bill
The General Assembly passed a bill that would require girls under 18 to notify their parents before they could get an abortion. The Senate is expected to pass it and Governor Whitman has said she will sign it. B2
 
No. 3 Police Official to Leave
Chief Louis R. Anemone, the third-ranking official in the Police Department, said he was resigning. He was an architect of the tactics that have won both praise and criticism in the effort to reduce violent crime. B3
 
WEEKEND E1-26; E27-40
 
OBITUARIES A31
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Stars Even N.H.L. Finals
Dallas beat the Buffalo Sabres, 4-2, in Game 2 of the Stanley Cup finals. D5
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
New Computer Attack Program
Computer researchers said a malicious computer program, called a worm, was rapidly spreading by E-mail, destroying documents created by popular Microsoft software. A1
 
Economic Surge in Japan
Japan's dormant economy leaped to life in the first three months of the year, gaining 1.9 percent from the last quarter of 1998. The official figures were so strong that they were quickly played down by some of the Government's own economists. C1
 
Morgan Stanley Legal Shake-Up
The investment banker's general counsel stepped down and was reassigned and a senior in-house lawyer resigned in connection with a $10,000 payment to an informant. C1
 
Rising Rates Push Down Stocks
Stocks staged a broad retreat as long-term interest rates climbed another notch, with the yield of the 30-year Treasury bond going to 6.06 percent. The Dow, the S.& P. 500 and the Nasdaq all declined. C8
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A32-33
 
Editorials: A long hot summer school; peace and the K.L.A.; students first, athletes second; getting the facts on racial profiling.
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E39
 
TV Listings E25
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather A30
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); CHINA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (54%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); CHINA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (54%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (84%); PRISONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (76%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); REFUGEES (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SENTENCING (69%); LITIGATION (69%); GUN CONTROL (66%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (61%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); POLICE FORCES (58%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999



223 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL;
Mets' Woes Are Hard to Conceal

BYLINE: By Murray Chass 

 BODY:
The Mets' version of Inspector Clouseau, that master of disguise, could be in trouble. Bobby Valentine is under investigation by the National League for donning sunglasses and a fake mustache -- or was it a strip of black tape? -- and returning to the dugout after his ejection from the game Wednesday night.
The masquerade is only one of several issues that have immersed the Mets in a sea of turmoil that is reminiscent of, well, as a member of the Mets' organization asked yesterday, "Is this what it was like with the Yankees?" 
 Yes, only Billy Martin never disguised himself so that no one would recognize him. If only he had, he might have avoided all of those bar fights. But that's another time and another story. This one is about the Mets and their attempt to get their season back on the playoff track.
With their current winning streak, they may be headed there, but the ancillary developments left Steve Phillips, their good-natured general manager, gasping for air yesterday. More than 30 minutes into a conference call with reporters, he said: "When can we talk about baseball? We won four in a row."
About 90 percent of the call was consumed by Bobby Bonilla and his recalcitrance in the face of his demotion to bench status. He refused to pinch-hit in the game with Toronto on Tuesday night, and Valentine chose punitively not to ask him to pinch-hit on Wednesday night.
But just as with other elements of Yankeeland East, Valentine apparently triggered this one, too, and not simply by deciding he could no longer abide Bonilla's presence regularly in the outfield. Bonilla, an associate said, was irate that Valentine told a reporter about his decision.
Now the Mets have a decision to make: what to do about Bonilla. Phillips readily acknowledged that it had become an "extremely difficult" matter. "It's something that should and needs to be resolved sooner rather than later," he said.
The Bonilla crisis never had to develop. The Mets never had to bring Bonilla back. It was a step -- they were warned before they took it -- that could boomerang. Talk about throwing good money after bad. Fred Wilpon and Nelson Doubleday didn't make their millions making deals like this one.
The Mets could have released Mel Rojas last winter and paid him $4.5 million, his salary for the 1999 season. But nooooooo, they had to get equal value for him, and oh did they. Bonilla has been every bit as bad for them this season as Rojas was for them last year.
But economically, Bonilla is far more costly. Subtracting the $1 million they received from the Dodgers in the deal, the Mets will spend $10.8 million on Bonilla for this year and the next. In monetary terms alone, they are out a net of $6.3 million, which could have paid a good player a nice salary for one year.
To Valentine's credit, he did not want Bonilla in the first place. As soon as the trade was announced last November, he talked about the risk Bonilla posed. "The risk," he said, "is whether or not he catches the ball when it comes down."
Now the Mets, who owe Bonilla $9.6 million for the rest of this season and next, are faced with the likelihood of having to release him.
This predicament comes at a confusing time for the Mets. An eight-game losing streak produced grumbling from some players about Valentine's ever-changing lineup, and it was accompanied by the surprise sacking of half of his coaching staff over his strenuous objections.
But since the changes -- and no one is suggesting cause and effect here -- the Mets have won four straight, winning the last two without the pinch-hitting help of the sulking hulk. Yet the winning streak has been punctuated by the manager's decision to initiate verbal battles with reporters he doesn't like, fabricating or imagining incidents or situations to support his arguments.
And then came Inspector Clouseau. Ejected in the Toronto half of the 12th inning for arguing a call against Mike Piazza, Valentine reappeared on the bench in a disguise: black Mets T-shirt, baseball-type cap, sunglasses and a fake mustache.
The television camera quickly spotted him and focused on him periodically the rest of the game, but he later tried to deny he was that masked man.
"It was somebody else who didn't look like me," Valentine said weakly.
But just as Inspector Clouseau never tricked anyone, Valentine did not fool the league office. Katy Feeney, the league's senior vice president, said the league was investigating the incident.
"We're getting information," she said. "We don't have everything yet, but we're getting it. We'll have the rest of it tomorrow."
Feeney said managers have been fined or reprimanded for remaining in the tunnel leading from the dugout to the clubhouse after they had been ejected. "But," she added, "I don't remember anybody being fully back in the dugout nor do I remember anybody being in disguise."
Feeney said it was her understanding that the fake mustache actually was a piece of black tape.
"We'll look at the film and see if we can tell," she said.
There was no question, however, that the man sitting in the Mets' dugout was not Peter Sellers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Halloween came early this year at Shea, but instead of the league saying trick or treat, an inquiry was begun to "identify" the man in disguise. (ESPN via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (69%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS; TORONTO BLUE JAYS NEW YORK METS (94%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (59%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS; TORONTO BLUE JAYS NEW YORK METS (94%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (59%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (58%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (69%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; VALENTINE, BOBBY ALFRED MANUEL 'BILLY' MARTIN (57%); ROBERTO MARTIN ANTONIO 'BOBBY' BONILLA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999



224 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Passes Sales-Tax Rebate as Session Ends

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, June 10

 BODY:
Reveling in flush times, the Connecticut Legislature adjourned today after passing a $50 sales tax rebate for every adult taxpayer in the state, with checks scheduled to begin arriving in October.
The rebate, the state's second in two years, was symbolic of the bipartisan bonhomie that marked the five-month session, where the biggest issue was how to spend a record $551.9 million budget surplus produced by the bubbling economy. Democrats, who control both chambers of the Legislature, offered little resistance to the rebate plan, which had been proposed by Gov. John G. Rowland, a Republican. 
 And Republicans went along with the Democrats' tax-relief idea, voting to raise an income-tax credit for those who pay property taxes. The credit, which will go to $500 from $350 in the next two years, will wipe out the income-tax bills of 350,000 Connecticut residents, according to legislative officials.
Last year, the rebate was sent only to people who paid state income tax. But this year, it was expanded to any resident who files a state tax return, including senior citizens and working poor people whose income is so low they owe no tax. The rebate is expected to go to 2.1 million residents, up from 956,000 last year.
Meeting here in the nation's insurance capital, lawmakers also passed what they call the "pill bill," which requires health insurers to cover contraceptives for women. Legislators imposed new mandates on managed-care companies, including a speedier appeals process for patients and a requirement that the companies cover Lyme disease, a tick-borne illness named for an area of the Connecticut shoreline.
"It's easier to govern when times are good," said Senator George C. Jepsen, a Democrat from Stamford who is the majority leader. "Just look at what we were able to accomplish: providing the citizens of this state with meaningful tax relief, paying down debt, increasing funding for education, investing in our cities and reforming the way managed-care companies in our state do business."
Governor Rowland appeared shortly after midnight in the House of Representatives' chamber, which was studded with balloon bouquets during the raucous final hours. He praised legislators for continuing what he called Connecticut's fiscal winning streak. "You've shown the rest of the country what can be accomplished when a legislature puts partisanship aside," he said.
Beer kegs were wheeled into the Capitol and lawmakers changed into jeans and partied past sunrise, with legislative leaders joining an annual tradition of trying to toss Hula-Hoops over a statue of Nathan Hale from the fourth floor of an atrium.
The self-congratulation was a bit premature. Like the student who walks through the diploma line at graduation but then must go to summer school, the legislators were dismayed to learn they must return Monday for a special session that was forced because they failed to act on three budget bills by midnight. The clock passed the constitutional deadline for acting on this session's bills, so new measures will be drafted for Monday.
Leaders said the problem was one of scheduling and not substance, and so expect little wrangling during the special session. However, one of the issues still in limbo is the state's schedule for spending its share of money from the national settlement with tobacco companies. Members of an antitobacco group said they hoped to win a commitment for added immediate financing for smoking cessation and education programs.
Governor Rowland said he was considering vetoing only one of the more than 400 bills that were sent to him -- and said he was leaning toward signing that one. The proposed law would allow the police to get warrants to seize the guns of people who are determined to be a danger to themselves or others. Supporters said the measure would allow the authorities to act to prevent tragedies that can be foreseen, but opponents called it the "turn-in-your-neighbor bill" and said it could be abused through false accusations in neighborhood or custody disputes.
The lawmakers passed a two-year budget totaling $23.78 billion, which calls for an increase of 4.8 percent next year and 4.7 percent the following year.
Other major measures included new protection for witnesses in criminal cases. The program is to be named for Leroy Brown Jr., an 8-year-old Bridgeport boy who was killed last year before he could testify in a murder case. Also, to discourage the police from stopping motorists based on their race, the legislators voted to require officers to record the race, ethnicity, gender and age of every driver they stop.
The lawmakers turned back an effort to reduce the standard for drunken driving from a blood-alcohol level of 0.10 percent to 0.08 percent but increased penalties for repeat offenders. And legislators voted against a measure that would have banned banks from charging noncustomers a fee for using automated-teller machines.
Governor Rowland said his biggest disappointment was the Legislature's rejection of his plan to abolish the high sheriffs, who are the last vestige of county government in the state. Governor Rowland contends the sheriff's offices are rife with corruption, and wanted to transfer to the state their functions of transporting prisoners, securing courts and serving legal papers. He said he would try again next year.
This year's legislature marked the ascension of the New York City suburbs to a level of political clout to match their status as Connecticut's economic engine. Representative Moira K. Lyons, a Democrat from Stamford, became Speaker of the House and Senator Jepsen continued as majority leader, the No. 2 official "upstairs," as the Senate is known at the Capitol.
The elevation of Representative Lyons, 56, ended the long era when legislative leaders' deals were cut in the men's room. She exercised her clout by demanding a bigger role for the Legislature in overseeing spending for a football stadium for the University of Connecticut that is to replace the failed plan to bring the New England Patriots to Hartford.
Her staff said she read every bill her chamber took up, and aides to Governor Rowland and Senate leaders complained bitterly about what they asserted was her overly deliberate style. In an interview today, she said she was proud of her role as a stickler willing to take on power centers in both parties.
"Maybe they're just not used to having someone say, 'Well, I don't agree with you,' " she said. "Because I disagree with someone does not mean they are right and I am wrong."
The Patriots deal, which collapsed in late April, was such a humiliation that legislators could no longer bear even to look at the word "stadium," so the UConn financing is officially for a "sportsplex" near the Capitol.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Congratulating Gov. John G. Rowland before he addressed the Connecticut Legislature yesterday were Representative Moira K. Lyons, Speaker of the House, and Kevin Sullivan, Senate President. (Associated Press)
 
Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Spending The Surplus"
 
About one-sixth of Connecticut's 1999 budget surplus of $551.9 million will be used for a sales-tax rebate.
 
Sales-tax rebate for residents
$96.2 million
 
Set aside to pay salaries when there are 53 weeks in a year
$90.0 million
 
Medicaid payments
$78.0 million
 
Health insurance for state employees
$60.0 million
 
School construction interests
$55.0 million
 
$172.7 million
Others
 
(Source: Connecticut General Assembly)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TAXATION; SALES TAX; REBATES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (94%); SALES TAX (92%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX RELIEF (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); POLITICS (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); LYME DISEASE (69%); TICK BORNE DISEASES (69%); BITES & STINGS (69%); EDUCATION FUNDING (66%); CONTRACEPTION (65%); INSURANCE (65%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (64%); SALES REBATES (58%); SENIOR CITIZENS (52%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) JOHN G ROWLAND (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999



225 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE FUTURE;
NATO Expects Separate Kosovo, Without Yugoslav Police or Taxes

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: COLOGNE, Germany, June 10

 BODY:
Although the political future of Kosovo is left vague in the settlement that ended the war, American and NATO officials say they envision an international protectorate that will in theory be part of Yugoslavia but that may well, after a few years, become independent.
As refugees return and society is rebuilt, a senior NATO official said today, Kosovo will become virtually "walled off" from Yugoslavia. People living in Kosovo would not serve in the Yugoslav Army or pay taxes to Yugoslavia; a new police force and judiciary would have to be created without Serbian influence; the currency would probably be either the German mark or the American dollar, and trade would turn south and west toward Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro instead of north toward Serbia. 
 None of these points are spelled out in the settlement that President Slobodan Milosevic signed. Indeed, in framing a political solution to the war, the NATO allies had been careful to state that Kosovo would remain within Yugoslavia.
The emphasis on keeping the territorial integrity of Yugoslavia and not allowing Kosovo to break away immediately was an essential ingredient for winning the agreement of Mr. Milosevic and the Russians to a peace accord. And West Europeans are generally wary of the possible consequences of a breakaway Kosovo.
But the resolution passed by the United Nations Security Council today includes the phrase "taking full account of the Rambouillet accords," a signal that can be interpreted to infer that down the road independence is a probability, Administration officials said.
Under the Rambouillet accords -- which Mr. Milosevic refused to sign, a move that led directly to the air strikes -- the future status of Kosovo was to be decided by calling an international conference in about three years. The views of the conference, as well as the "will of the people" of Kosovo and views of Serbians, would determine the final status of the province, according to those accords.
The accords offered a detailed blueprint for an autonomous Kosovo, including a 120-member parliament, election rules, an independent judiciary, local government structures, a police force and border security.
Under the plan approved this week, Kosovo will become increasingly separated from Serbia, the dominant republic in what is left of Yugoslavia, and the likelihood of Serbs having a significant say in the status of Kosovo will diminish, officials said.
The physical reconstruction of Kosovo was addressed briefly today at a meeting here by the foreign ministers of the Group of Seven industrial countries and Russia, who said that they would soon organize a conference of potential donors to start raising the billions of dollars needed for the task.
The foreign ministers also announced a stability pact for southeastern Europe that is intended to help already poor economies made poorer by the war. The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund will be called on to provide assistance, the ministers said.
President Clinton said today that because the United States carried most of the cost of the military campaign, the bill for rebuilding the burned homes, damaged roads and torched schools would be paid mostly by the European Union.
The Clinton Administration has requested $100 million in a supplemental appropriations bill for Kosovo and the redevelopment of the region, but Congress is expected to approve only a portion of this.
The United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, is expected to announce soon his choice to become the world body's Special Representative for Kosovo, a job that will probably resemble that of a Governor General.
A spokeswoman for the French Foreign Ministry, Anne Gazeau-Secret, said today that her Government had requested that Mr. Annan appoint a European to the post. This would be appropriate, she said, because most of the money for reconstruction would come from the European Union. Clinton Administration officials have said that, despite doubts about the efficiency of United Nations programs, they were resigned to the United Nations taking overall responsibility for Kosovo, with the European Union playing a major role as financier.
The United Nations was a preferred choice as the dominant player, the officials said, because the United States has influence there but not in the European Union.
Another organization, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, a 54-member trans-Atlantic body based in Vienna, would also play a central role in rebuilding Kosovo, officials said. In particular, the group would organize elections for a time yet to be set and could assist in forming a police force.
In recent months, Clinton Administration officials have been careful not to rule out independence for Kosovo, even though European countries are more apprehensive about the idea; the possibility of independence is considered important as an inducement for rebels of the Kosovo Liberation Army to disarm.
As a moral question, the possibility of independence is important to the Kosovo Albanians, who before the war made up more than 90 percent of the province's population. Balkans experts say it is very likely that many Serbs still left in Kosovo will move to Serbia proper, leaving almost only Kosovo Albanian.
For Western Europe, an independent Kosovo, or a Kosovo adjoined to Albania, is less conceivable than for the United States, European diplomats said. First, they say, a breakaway Kosovo would set a precedent for other separatist groups in Europe. A second and less openly expressed factor is the fear of Kosovo, whose Albanian population is mostly Muslim, becoming an Islamic island within Europe.
As preparations get under way for Kosovo's reconstruction, comparisons were being made today to the efforts made in Bosnia after the 1995 peace accord. By most accounts, the reconstruction in Bosnia has been hampered by poor management, competition among international agencies and slow funding from the European Union.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; POLICE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES REFUGEES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARMIES (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CURRENCIES (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); GERMAN MARK (70%); TRENDS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); BORDER CONTROL (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); ELECTION LAW (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); POLICE FORCES (58%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999



226 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE OVERVIEW;
Bombing Ends as Serbs Begin Pullout

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, June 10

 BODY:
NATO suspended its bombing of Yugoslavia today after Serbian troops began withdrawing from Kosovo, halting an assault that rained 23,000 bombs and missiles on Serbia without losing the life of a single NATO fighter.
The halt in the bombing after 78 days set the stage for the United Nations Security Council's swift approval of a resolution that permits 50,000 international peacekeepers to move in to help more than a million Albanian refugees driven out of Kosovo to try to return. 
 NATO's Secretary General, Javier Solana, announced the suspension of the bombing in midafternoon European time, morning in the United States.
"I would urge all parties to the conflict to seize this opportunity for peace," he said, adding that the moment was a result of allied determination and intense diplomacy by many countries, including Russia.
Allied leaders on both sides of the Atlantic were restrained in claiming victory in NATO's first war, a fight that took a toll not only on the Serbs and Kosovars, but also at times on the allies themselves. The war challenged the alliance, leaving it transformed and helping to determine its course in the coming century.
"We have to finish the job and build the peace," President Clinton said today, while Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain said, "I feel no sense of triumph now, only the knowledge that our cause was just and rightly upheld."
President Jacques Chirac of France said, "A page has been turned in the conflict."
With their approval and that of other allied leaders, Mr. Solana halted the bombing after Gen. Wesley K. Clark, the Supreme Allied Commander in Europe, confirmed that the withdrawal of 40,000 Serbian soldiers, police officers and paramilitary units had begun at midday.
Several hundred Yugoslav Army military trucks bearing soldiers clogged the road north from Pristina, the capital of Kosovo, today, more than 12 hours after Yugoslav military commanders agreed to allied terms with the commander of the peacekeeping force in Macedonia on Wednesday night. Allied commanders swore vigilance to make sure the Serbian forces lived up to the agreement.
President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia, in his first address to his people regarding the conflict with NATO, did not claim victory for the Government today, but instead thanked ordinary citizens for their contributions and sacrifices. In the televised address, he said, "The aggression is over, happy peace to us all."
The first deployment of NATO peacekeeping troops had been scheduled for Friday. But it will probably be delayed until Saturday because Serbian forces have encountered difficulties in carrying out their withdrawal, Western officials said.
"The Serbs are having trouble getting their equipment out," a senior Western official said. "Their equipment is broken and out of fuel" and they need more time to clear the road of mines. The official said the Serbs were wary of moving at night because they fear the Kosovo Liberation Army.
Once bombs were no longer falling -- a condition Russia, China and France had set for a Security Council vote -- the Council reconvened in New York City today and quickly approved a resolution that had been worked out earlier this week in Cologne by the European allies, the United States, Russia, Canada and Japan.
The vote this morning, 14 to 0 with one abstention, China's, put Kosovo under international civilian control and placed the peacekeeping force under United Nations authority.
Lieut. Gen. Sir Michael Jackson of Britain, the force commander, was set to start leading the 18,500 European and American soldiers in Macedonia into Kosovo. NATO ambassadors met again tonight and approved an operation order clearing the way for the move, which is expected eventually to involve a total of around 50,000 troops, mostly Europeans from allied and other countries, with about 7,000 Americans.
Russian troops, expected to number about 2,500, could also join if Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott and American military negotiators who met Russian officers in Moscow today can work out command arrangements for them. Russia was vehemently opposed to the NATO bombing and says it will not put its troops under the alliance's orders.
Allied warplanes flew their last 82 strike missions Wednesday, the allied command said, but will continue flying reconnaissance missions to monitor the Serbian withdrawal, which is to be completed within 11 days.
"Violence or noncompliance by any party will not be tolerated," Mr. Solana warned. But he said that the alliance and other international organizations would now try to help all the ethnic groups of Kosovo, including the Serbs, to build a society free of the repression that had spawned the conflict in the first place.
The bombing campaign sorely tested and profoundly changed the 50-year-old alliance, which never fired a shot in anger during the cold war.
It surmounted objections to the use of force to make peace in Kosovo, but at the price of a strategy that retired generals from San Diego to Vladivostok said would never succeed, using air power alone to try to prevent and then reverse the expulsion of the ethnic Albanian majority living in hallowed Serbian territory in Kosovo.
In the end it was diplomacy, by Western powers and by Russia, that tipped the balance, convincing President Milosevic that he had no choice but to accede to international demands and make peace in Kosovo. Now the alliance has taken on the challenge of keeping the peace, a challenge that may prove even more difficult than waging the air war.
Preserving unity among 19 allies during more than two months of a bombing campaign was a formidable task, one that allied diplomats from several countries today said Mr. Solana had handled with diplomatic skill.
From Britain, which alone among the allies argued for preparations for an invasion of Kosovo with troops on the ground to force Mr. Milosevic to accept their will, to Greece, where opposition was strong against using force against a fellow Orthodox Christian nation, the allies constantly questioned the air war strategy, but never could agree on anything better.
In the end, Mr. Solana always insisted, NATO's air war was about human values, about 21st-century Europe not tolerating the throwback to 20th-century totalitarian brutality that the allies said Mr. Milosevic's "ethnic cleansing" in Kosovo represented. In this, NATO had public opinion behind it on most of the Continent.
"What Milosevic didn't reckon with," said a European diplomat at NATO, "was the effect on public opinion of seeing all those hundreds of thousands of refugees streaming out of Kosovo. It reminded all Europeans of the scenes they had seen during World War II and caused immediate and long-lasting revulsion."
NATO's bombing took the highest toll on Serbia, where President Milosevic, in his address today, called for unity to rebuild the country.
Led by Germany's Chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, foreign ministers of the world's seven largest industrial democracies plus Russia met with Balkans leaders in Cologne today and agreed to commit money and effort to a stability pact.
The "Schroder Plan," which European leaders say could cost $5 billion to $6 billion a year for many years, aims at raising all the Balkans to the economic and social level of the rest of Europe, in an effort to make another war there after a decade of ethnic conflict as unthinkable as it is now in France, Britain or Germany.
"Europe cannot be fully secure unless its southeast corner is free from strife," Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said in Cologne today, warning Mr. Milosevic against putting political or military pressure on Montenegro, another constituent republic of Yugoslavia whose leaders did not support his attacks in Kosovo.
Now NATO hopes its relationship with Russia can slowly begin to recover from the damage it suffered from the bombing campaign. Russian officials have refused to attend regular meetings at the alliance headquarters since the bombing began on March 24.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yugoslav army withdrawing near Podujevo. The allies confirmed 40,000 Serbian troops had begun to pull out. (Goran Tomasevic/Reuters)(pg. A1); An Army helicopter transporting members of the 82d Airborne Division arriving at an American base outside of Skopje, Macedonia. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A12)
 
Map showing the location of Kosovo. (pg. A12)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); KOSOVO (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); ALBANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; SERBIA (98%); KOSOVO (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); ALBANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (79%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); APPROVALS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); REFUGEES (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; SOLANA, JAVIER (SEC GEN); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); CLARK, WESLEY K (GEN); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) JAVIER SOLANA (79%); BILL CLINTON (55%); TONY BLAIR (50%); JACQUES CHIRAC (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999



227 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 2;Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1972 words

HEADLINE: SOCCER;
Show Time for Reluctant Soccer Superstar

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

 BODY:
Every time Mia Hamm steps onto or off a soccer field, the young girls are waiting. They are wearing her No. 9 jersey. Their hair is pulled back into a replica of her ponytail. The cumulative effect is of nesting dolls, each one opening to reveal another inside that is smaller but identical.
Hamm is considered the world's best female soccer player, a woman born in 1972, the year of Title IX, the Federal law aimed in part at prohibiting discrimination against athletes on the basis of gender. And now, at 27, Hamm represents for many the full realization of sports opportunities for women. At 15, she became the youngest player ever to join the national soccer team, and in winning a world championship and an Olympic gold medal in recent years, she has scored 109 career goals, more than any other man or woman to play the game. 
 She has also reached an uncommon level of celebrity and corporate appeal. People magazine voted her one of its 50 most beautiful people. Nike named a building in her honor at its headquarters. She appears in a commercial with Michael Jordan, challenging him in basketball, soccer, track and fencing, and flipping him over her hip in a judo maneuver while the music asserts, "Anything you can do, I can do better."
And starting next week, Hamm will headline the largest sporting event ever held for women, the Women's World Cup, a 16-team tournament that begins at Giants Stadium on June 19 and will be played in stadiums across the country.
The games will provide the biggest stage yet for the woman who is a sports role model for 7.5 million girls who play soccer in the United States. Girls wait for her after practices and games in adoring flocks, shrieking her name in a way familiar to anyone who saw the Beatles on Ed Sullivan.
The scrutiny promises to be intense, for athletes are rarely asked to carry the enormous burden of opportunity that Hamm is being asked to shoulder this summer. And she is not completely comfortable with it. She is being counted on not only to lead the favored American team, but also to help fill stadiums, to lend a name and a face to an emerging game, to be the spark that could ignite a professional soccer league for women in 2001.
If Hamm fails, or her team fails early, the Women's World Cup -- games are being broadcast on ESPN and ABC, and the World Cup organizers expect to sell 500,000 tickets -- could become a diminished athletic and commercial affair. And a women's pro league, now a long-shot proposition looking for a star to hook onto, may have trouble becoming more than a proposal in a boardroom.
"I feel it is important for soccer that Mia plays well," said Leonardo Cuellar, coach of the Mexican women's team and a former star of its men's national team. "I don't want to add pressure, but it's always important, when fans have expectations about seeing a player excel in a world-class event, for that to happen. She's charismatic, very humble. Those are the attributes of Pele and some of the best stars."
 
PRESSURE
A Hesitant Hero Overcomes Doubts
 Sometimes the pressure to dominate on the soccer field can feel to Hamm like a knotted muscle. She did not finish among the top scorers in previous major tournaments -- the 1991 World Cup, the 1995 World Cup, the 1996 Summer Olympics. The burden was particularly evident earlier this year when Hamm did not score a goal for eight consecutive games. Twice during that drought the Americans lost to China, the United States' chief rival and the team it defeated for the 1996 Olympic gold medal.
Hamm seemed reluctant to challenge defenders one on one, according to the American coach Tony DiCicco. No one is better at this aspect of the women's game that is part croquet, part ballet, part bullfight. At her best, Hamm seems to release and retrieve the ball as if it were a yo-yo. But now she was hesitant. For the first time in her career, she made as much news when she did not score as when she did. Doubt seeped into her game like sweat.
"There's a fine line between setting standards that keep you getting better and being hypercritical to the point that it undermines your confidence," DiCicco said. "She's always flirted with that line. She's not only a soccer icon, but she's an icon for women's athletics. That's a huge responsibility. It's a very vulnerable place to be."
The girls who wait for her hold out their hands for her to slap, or ask her to sign their jerseys, or thrust soccer balls toward her. In return, Hamm offers high-fives, an autograph, a smile, a nod, an affirming gesture that they can aspire to be everything she has become.
"It's very important for young girls to have female athletes they can identify with," Hamm said.
While she accepts that she is a pioneer, she is a reluctant celebrity. She wears the role awkwardly, like wearing a fur coat in the dead of summer. Having grown up in a military family with three sisters and two brothers, there is a reserve about her, almost a sense of rank, as if she should succeed at a high level but should not stand out from the others.
She is a scorer who is a selfless passer, a forward who is as economical with her words as she is explosive with her feet, an athlete as effortless and guarded as Joe DiMaggio. Even her handshake is noncommittal, as if it might reveal too much.
"Men grow up knowing that if they are the best they are going to be famous," said Hamm's agent, David Bober. "Mia didn't sign up for soccer to be a famous sports icon. It's an adjustment."
Hamm is actually more forthcoming discussing her failures than her successes. The mantle of "best player in the world" is subjective, she said. Failure is objective. It can be taken apart, examined, repaired. She said that confidence, like fitness, must be cultivated daily.
"Someone tried to tell me that Michael Jordan doesn't have confidence problems, but he is probably very selective who he shares it with," Hamm said. "I don't think a lot of athletes walk around thinking they're the best. If they do, it's probably to hide some weaknesses they have."
During the scoring drought, Hamm heard and read that she was not playing her best, and by repetition, the supposition of a slump became fact.
"You try not to listen, but it does get to you," Hamm said. "I was putting too much pressure on myself. I wasn't enjoying what I was doing. I was so worried about, 'All right team, jump on my back, I'm going to carry you through all this.' "
She consulted friends, like Nomar Garciaparra, the shortstop for the Boston Red Sox, who told her, "Go out and enjoy the game and don't worry about all that other stuff." Eventually, she scored again, and with five goals in her last five matches leading to the World Cup, her personal fog cleared.
"Mia takes the burden really seriously on herself," said Tiffeny Milbrett, who plays forward alongside Hamm. "She needs to realize she's not alone. The team will be fine. She will pull off the spectacular play just by being on the field. All she needs to do is play."
 
PRODIGY
Soccer Triumph; Personal Sadness
 Hamm was born in Selma, Ala., and lived a road-map childhood in Texas, California, Virginia and Italy, where her father, an Air Force colonel, was passionately drawn to soccer. When Mia was 5, her family adopted an 8-year-old boy named Garrett, whose legs and arms seemed wondrously suited to propelling a ball off a bat, through a hoop, into a net.
"Garrett was an influence on me on any form of athletics," Hamm said. "When he'd go play pickup football or baseball, I was always right behind him. He always picked me for his teams."
By the time she was 14, the national soccer team wanted her, too. Anson Dorrance, who coached the team then, got an excited call about her from a coaching friend in Texas. Skeptical, Dorrance went to watch her play.
"The team kicks off, a girl passes the ball to the right about 30 yards and I see this skinny brunette take off like she had been shot out of a cannon," he said.
He walked around the field and approached his coaching friend.
"Is that Mia Hamm?" Dorrance asked.
"Yes."
"We've got something here."
But Hamm was only 14.
"When you have a potential genius, you don't want to crush their spirit and shatter their confidence if they don't succeed," Dorrance said. "I decided we couldn't wait. The rest is history."
At 15, Hamm became the youngest player, male or female, ever to join the national team. She then followed Dorrance to the University of North Carolina, where he coached, and she won four national championships and met her husband, Christian Corry, a Marine pilot. With Hamm, the Americans won the initial Women's World Cup in 1991, a bronze medal in the 1995 World Cup, then later won the gold medal at the 1996 Olympics. But her success has been tempered by sadness.
Garrett Hamm contracted a rare blood disorder. Mia raised $50,000 for his care through a benefit soccer game. But in April 1997, at the age of 28, her brother died.
Hamm absorbed the hurt, and she has played on, scoring more goals, raising expectations. But some close to her believe she has been pulled too thin, playing and promoting the game.
"All of us might be asking her to do too much," Dorrance said. "I have a great fear it will burn her out, on the field, off the field."
 
PASSION
A Dancer's Feet, A Felon's Heart
 Although Hamm is reticent off the field, her style of play is dynamically suited to spreading the sport to a wider audience. A fiercer countenance emerges, cheeks hollow and jaw clenched in exertion, her ponytail fanning out behind as she sprints 40 yards to finish a fast break or carves a defender with a deft two-step and makes an inexorable charge toward the goal.
The passion of her game is most evident in the celebrative convulsion when she scores, the tendons in her neck flared, her mouth an open scream, her arms cocked at the elbow and fists closed as if she has just lifted some enormous weight.
She has a dancer's feet, a felon's heart.
"Her acceleration is so visceral," Dorrance said. "When she gets the ball, you hold your breath."
Her athleticism is such that during a desperate moment of the 1995 Women's World Cup, the Americans made her a goalkeeper. Someone brought a football to a recent practice, and Hamm expertly knocked in field goals from 35 yards.
With her teammates, Hamm can be funny, outgoing, a master of accents, someone who gives as good as she gets. When midfielder Julie Foudy, in a moment of introspection, said that she wanted to retire from soccer to do something that "makes a difference," Hamm dabbed at fake tears and burst into a mock Bette Midler number, singing, "Did you ever know that you're my hero?"
Nor does she mind pinpricking her own public image. On the box of Soccer Barbie, which she endorses, Hamm is pictured with a doll's freeze-dried smile and eternity-proof makeup. "You can't tell which one is the Barbie," she said.
In filming the Gatorade commercial with Jordan, cameras began rolling in the unscripted judo sequence, and Hamm moved confidently toward Jordan and flung him to the mat. He played along, said Bober, Hamm's agent, "but he waved his finger and said, 'That better not make the final cut.' "
It did.
The cameras will be rolling for real in the coming weeks, and there will be no playacting. Everyone will be watching.
"All sports lacking a profile really have to push one or two of the best athletes who have a number of qualities in and out of the game," said Julie Murray, captain of the Australian women's team. "Sometimes it can be daunting, standing up and making speeches when all you want to do is play. But I know it is better for the sport and for the people who will follow in Mia's shoes. Girls who are 13, 14, 15 are looking at her. The sport is better off doing that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 12, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page credit yesterday with a picture of the soccer player Mia Hamm misspelled the name of the advertising agency that supplied the television commercial in which she was seen. It is Foote Cone & Belding, not Foote Tone.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Anything you can do, I can do better." Mia Hamm went one-on-one against Michael Jordan for a Gatorade commercial. (Foote, Cone and Belding)(pg. A1); Mia Hamm has lived up to expectations, scoring 109 career goals, more than any other man or woman to play the game. (Aubrey Washington/Allsport)(pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316219 OTHER FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS316211 RUBBER AND PLASTICS FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS315239 WOMEN'S AND GIRLS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS315228 MEN'S AND BOYS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (55%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (55%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (55%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. SOCCER (94%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); GENDER EQUALITY (73%); BASKETBALL (71%); OLYMPICS (70%); MARTIAL ARTS (70%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999



228 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C;Page 1;Column 2;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japan Grows 1.9%, to Economists' Disbelief

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, June 11

 BODY:
After nearly two years of recession, Japan's dormant economy leaped to life in the first three months of the year, according to official figures so strong that they were played down by some of the Government's own economists.
The gross domestic product rose for the first time since the end of 1997, gaining 1.9 percent from the last quarter of 1998, compared with a drop of eight-tenths of a percent in the previous quarter, according to the figures released on Thursday. If this pace were maintained for a full year -- something virtually no one expects -- the economy would grow 7.9 percent in 1999. 
 Japanese Government officials, long criticized for failing to acknowledge the depths of the nation's economic crisis, hastened to stamp out any sense of euphoria.
"It's too early to say the economy has recovered or bottomed out," said Taiichi Sakaiya, the head of the Economic Planning Agency, which compiles the figures.
Indeed, few are betting that the improvement in output will have much momentum, and many worried that it would force the Government to postpone drafting a supplemental budget devoted to further stimulating the economy.
"We still have a risk of a slowdown in the economy in the second half of this year because public expenditures are likely to decrease," said Hiroyuki Inoue, chief economist at the Japan Center for Research, adding that the new report "doesn't mean the crisis is over."
The latest output figures appeared to indicate, though, that the Government's yearlong, $800-billion-plus spending program had begun to have stimulative effects. The Government estimates annual growth of one-half of 1 percent for the year, a figure that until now was considered unrealistically rosy by many economists.
"The Government's projections will not be so difficult to achieve," given the new figures, said Masaru Takagi, an economist at Meiji University. "The key point is whether private demand continues to improve, especially in the second half of this year."
Apparently, stock buyers were impressed by the data. The benchmark Nikkei index of 225 issues shot up 480.12 points, or 2.89 percent, on Thursday, and added a further 237.74 points this morning, to 17,340.36 at midday. The yen spiked up against the dollar after the new figures were announced, then fell back on the belief among currency traders that the Japanese central bank had intervened in the markets and was selling yen -- something Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa confirmed this morning. A strong yen could crush hopes of an economic turnaround because so many big Japanese manufacturers rely on exports. In late currency trading in New York, though, the yen stood at 118.84 to the dollar, slightly stronger than Wednesday's rate of 118.93, then gained strength early today, trading at midday at 118.72 to the dollar.
Secretary of the Treasury Robert E. Rubin said in Washington on Thursday that the United States was not selling yen. Mr. Rubin would not draw broad conclusions from the Japanese output data. "My instinct is that individual quarterly numbers don't give you much sense about what's happening in an economy," he said. "Clearly, they have enormous challenges ahead."
Here, the magnitude of the improvement caught economists off guard. The consensus forecast on Thursday morning of 28 economists polled by Bloomberg News had been for growth of only one-tenth of 1 percent -- and many forecasters grumbled that the Government's statistics were based on data that did not accurately reflect economic reality. Just a day earlier, Bloomberg's economists were predicting that the economy would contract by eight-tenths of a percent -- until comments late that afternoon by the Prime Minister's spokesman, who suggested the figures would be positive, sent them back to rework their models.
"I'm cautious about the accuracy of the numbers in reflecting what's really happening in the economy," said Chris Calderwood, chief economist at Jardine Fleming Securities here. "Even if the numbers are vaguely right, it's possible we're getting all the good news in one blow, and it's all downhill from here."
In particular, Mr. Calderwood and others looked askance at the figures for private consumption and corporate investment, which rose 1.2 percent and 2.5 percent, respectively.
Consumer spending, which was down two-tenths of a percent the previous quarter, has always been the wild card in a Japanese recovery. While there are signs that the Japanese are shopping more freely, companies are forcing workers to retire early and are cutting bonuses and perquisites. Consumers face tax increases for the public pension system and for medical insurance, which should also restrain spending.
Much of the increase in corporate spending was due to a one-time outlay for technology related to a new digital telephone system. In the previous quarter, corporate expenditures dropped 5.5 percent, and almost every major company has plans to cut capital spending anywhere from 15 to 30 percent.
Some economists have been skeptical about the corporate profit survey compiled by the Finance Ministry, which contains the figures on company spending that are used to calculate output. The same survey showed employment up 6.2 percent compared with the period last year, according to one economist. Such a figure seems so clearly out of sync with reality -- unemployment is at a record high 4.8 percent -- that it raises questions about the entire survey. "The data on corporate spending doesn't really jibe with other data we have," said Brian H. Rose, senior economist at Warburg Dillon Read. "I'd conclude that the survey just isn't that accurate."
The new output figures would appear to support the Government's strategy of setting aside fiscal caution in order to goad the economy into action. More than $800 billion has been invested in public works over the last year, and tax cuts, credit guarantees and shopping vouchers have been handed out to encourage spending.
Economists worry that once spending stops, Japan will again fall into a prolonged decline, and they say that spending is almost certain to stop. Public-sector debt has ballooned, with the Finance Ministry predicting it will stand at 108.5 percent of the gross domestic product this year. Tax revenue is falling.
"We're approaching the peak of Government spending," Mr. Rose said. "I think a lot of people, including us, are really more worried about what will happen in 2000 rather than this year, when it looks like they've propped things up pretty well."
Public investment rose 10.3 percent in the first quarter, on the back of a 10.6 percent increase the previous quarter.
Bankruptcies are down, largely because the Government has spent 15 trillion yen in the last six months -- $126 billion at current exchange rates -- on a loan guarantee program for small and midsized businesses.
Tax breaks have produced a surge in new housing, pushing housing investment up 1.2 percent in the first quarter, compared with a 7 percent decline in the fourth quarter of 1998. Interest rates are about as low as they can go without being negative.
Today, the Government is taking the wraps off a plan to halt the rise in unemployment, with billions more in new spending aimed at creating 700,000 jobs and preserving existing ones.
These sorts of pump-priming activities are applauded by officials in the United States and other foreign governments; in Japan, they draw criticism as an expensive effort to stave off wrenching structural changes needed to put the economy on a globally competitive footing.
Some economists said that a danger inherent in Thursday's figures was complacency -- that hints of Asian economic recovery would squelch the drive for market-driven changes that was so strong in worse times a few months ago.
"We now have a new set of risks," Mr. Inoue of the Japan Center for Research maintained. "If private corporations react to the current numbers the wrong way, if they think the crisis is over, they might not press ahead with restructuring and reform. And that will postpone necessary structural readjustments to the economy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 16, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Friday about data showing strong Japanese first-quarter economic growth misstated the forecast of economists polled by Bloomberg News one day before the data were released. The forecast predicted the data would show Japan's economy had contracted by two-tenths of a percent, not eight-tenths of a percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Rising Again" plots the quarterly change in Japan's gross domestic product, from first quarter 1997 through first quarter 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; JAPAN ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); JAPANESE YEN (88%); CURRENCIES (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TRENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); EXPORT TRADE (61%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); 

PERSON: ROBERT E RUBIN (63%); CHRIS CALDERWOOD (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999



229 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1972 words

HEADLINE: SOCCER;
Show Time for Reluctant Soccer Superstar

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN 

 BODY:
Every time Mia Hamm steps onto or off a soccer field, the young girls are waiting. They are wearing her No. 9 jersey. Their hair is pulled back into a replica of her ponytail. The cumulative effect is of nesting dolls, each one opening to reveal another inside that is smaller but identical.
Hamm is considered the world's best female soccer player, a woman born in 1972, the year of Title IX, the Federal law aimed in part at prohibiting discrimination against athletes on the basis of gender. And now, at 27, Hamm represents for many the full realization of sports opportunities for women. At 15, she became the youngest player ever to join the national soccer team, and in winning a world championship and an Olympic gold medal in recent years, she has scored 109 career goals, more than any other man or woman to play the game. 
 She has also reached an uncommon level of celebrity and corporate appeal. People magazine voted her one of its 50 most beautiful people. Nike named a building in her honor at its headquarters. She appears in a commercial with Michael Jordan, challenging him in basketball, soccer, track and fencing, and flipping him over her hip in a judo maneuver while the music asserts, "Anything you can do, I can do better."
And starting next week, Hamm will headline the largest sporting event ever held for women, the Women's World Cup, a 16-team tournament that begins at Giants Stadium on June 19 and will be played in stadiums across the country.
The games will provide the biggest stage yet for the woman who is a sports role model for 7.5 million girls who play soccer in the United States. Girls wait for her after practices and games in adoring flocks, shrieking her name in a way familiar to anyone who saw the Beatles on Ed Sullivan.
The scrutiny promises to be intense, for athletes are rarely asked to carry the enormous burden of opportunity that Hamm is being asked to shoulder this summer. And she is not completely comfortable with it. She is being counted on not only to lead the favored American team, but also to help fill stadiums, to lend a name and a face to an emerging game, to be the spark that could ignite a professional soccer league for women in 2001.
If Hamm fails, or her team fails early, the Women's World Cup -- games are being broadcast on ESPN and ABC, and the World Cup organizers expect to sell 500,000 tickets -- could become a diminished athletic and commercial affair. And a women's pro league, now a long-shot proposition looking for a star to hook onto, may have trouble becoming more than a proposal in a boardroom.
"I feel it is important for soccer that Mia plays well," said Leonardo Cuellar, coach of the Mexican women's team and a former star of its men's national team. "I don't want to add pressure, but it's always important, when fans have expectations about seeing a player excel in a world-class event, for that to happen. She's charismatic, very humble. Those are the attributes of Pele and some of the best stars."
 
PRESSURE
A Hesitant Hero Overcomes Doubts
 Sometimes the pressure to dominate on the soccer field can feel to Hamm like a knotted muscle. She did not finish among the top scorers in previous major tournaments -- the 1991 World Cup, the 1995 World Cup, the 1996 Summer Olympics. The burden was particularly evident earlier this year when Hamm did not score a goal for eight consecutive games. Twice during that drought the Americans lost to China, the United States' chief rival and the team it defeated for the 1996 Olympic gold medal.
Hamm seemed reluctant to challenge defenders one on one, according to the American coach Tony DiCicco. No one is better at this aspect of the women's game that is part croquet, part ballet, part bullfight. At her best, Hamm seems to release and retrieve the ball as if it were a yo-yo. But now she was hesitant. For the first time in her career, she made as much news when she did not score as when she did. Doubt seeped into her game like sweat.
"There's a fine line between setting standards that keep you getting better and being hypercritical to the point that it undermines your confidence," DiCicco said. "She's always flirted with that line. She's not only a soccer icon, but she's an icon for women's athletics. That's a huge responsibility. It's a very vulnerable place to be."
The girls who wait for her hold out their hands for her to slap, or ask her to sign their jerseys, or thrust soccer balls toward her. In return, Hamm offers high-fives, an autograph, a smile, a nod, an affirming gesture that they can aspire to be everything she has become.
"It's very important for young girls to have female athletes they can identify with," Hamm said.
While she accepts that she is a pioneer, she is a reluctant celebrity. She wears the role awkwardly, like wearing a fur coat in the dead of summer. Having grown up in a military family with three sisters and two brothers, there is a reserve about her, almost a sense of rank, as if she should succeed at a high level but should not stand out from the others.
She is a scorer who is a selfless passer, a forward who is as economical with her words as she is explosive with her feet, an athlete as effortless and guarded as Joe DiMaggio. Even her handshake is noncommittal, as if it might reveal too much.
"Men grow up knowing that if they are the best they are going to be famous," said Hamm's agent, David Bober. "Mia didn't sign up for soccer to be a famous sports icon. It's an adjustment."
Hamm is actually more forthcoming discussing her failures than her successes. The mantle of "best player in the world" is subjective, she said. Failure is objective. It can be taken apart, examined, repaired. She said that confidence, like fitness, must be cultivated daily.
"Someone tried to tell me that Michael Jordan doesn't have confidence problems, but he is probably very selective who he shares it with," Hamm said. "I don't think a lot of athletes walk around thinking they're the best. If they do, it's probably to hide some weaknesses they have."
During the scoring drought, Hamm heard and read that she was not playing her best, and by repetition, the supposition of a slump became fact.
"You try not to listen, but it does get to you," Hamm said. "I was putting too much pressure on myself. I wasn't enjoying what I was doing. I was so worried about, 'All right team, jump on my back, I'm going to carry you through all this.' "
She consulted friends, like Nomar Garciaparra, the shortstop for the Boston Red Sox, who told her, "Go out and enjoy the game and don't worry about all that other stuff." Eventually, she scored again, and with five goals in her last five matches leading to the World Cup, her personal fog cleared.
"Mia takes the burden really seriously on herself," said Tiffeny Milbrett, who plays forward alongside Hamm. "She needs to realize she's not alone. The team will be fine. She will pull off the spectacular play just by being on the field. All she needs to do is play."
 
PRODIGY
Soccer Triumph; Personal Sadness
 Hamm was born in Selma, Ala., and lived a road-map childhood in Texas, California, Virginia and Italy, where her father, an Air Force colonel, was passionately drawn to soccer. When Mia was 5, her family adopted an 8-year-old boy named Garrett, whose legs and arms seemed wondrously suited to propelling a ball off a bat, through a hoop, into a net.
"Garrett was an influence on me on any form of athletics," Hamm said. "When he'd go play pickup football or baseball, I was always right behind him. He always picked me for his teams."
By the time she was 14, the national soccer team wanted her, too. Anson Dorrance, who coached the team then, got an excited call about her from a coaching friend in Texas. Skeptical, Dorrance went to watch her play.
"The team kicks off, a girl passes the ball to the right about 30 yards and I see this skinny brunette take off like she had been shot out of a cannon," he said.
He walked around the field and approached his coaching friend.
"Is that Mia Hamm?" Dorrance asked.
"Yes."
"We've got something here."
But Hamm was only 14.
"When you have a potential genius, you don't want to crush their spirit and shatter their confidence if they don't succeed," Dorrance said. "I decided we couldn't wait. The rest is history."
At 15, Hamm became the youngest player, male or female, ever to join the national team. She then followed Dorrance to the University of North Carolina, where he coached, and she won four national championships and met her husband, Christian Corry, a Marine pilot. With Hamm, the Americans won the initial Women's World Cup in 1991, a bronze medal in the 1995 World Cup, then later won the gold medal at the 1996 Olympics. But her success has been tempered by sadness.
Garrett Hamm contracted a rare blood disorder. Mia raised $50,000 for his care through a benefit soccer game. But in April 1997, at the age of 28, her brother died.
Hamm absorbed the hurt, and she has played on, scoring more goals, raising expectations. But some close to her believe she has been pulled too thin, playing and promoting the game.
"All of us might be asking her to do too much," Dorrance said. "I have a great fear it will burn her out, on the field, off the field."
 
PASSION
A Dancer's Feet, A Felon's Heart
 Although Hamm is reticent off the field, her style of play is dynamically suited to spreading the sport to a wider audience. A fiercer countenance emerges, cheeks hollow and jaw clenched in exertion, her ponytail fanning out behind as she sprints 40 yards to finish a fast break or carves a defender with a deft two-step and makes an inexorable charge toward the goal.
The passion of her game is most evident in the celebrative convulsion when she scores, the tendons in her neck flared, her mouth an open scream, her arms cocked at the elbow and fists closed as if she has just lifted some enormous weight.
She has a dancer's feet, a felon's heart.
"Her acceleration is so visceral," Dorrance said. "When she gets the ball, you hold your breath."
Her athleticism is such that during a desperate moment of the 1995 Women's World Cup, the Americans made her a goalkeeper. Someone brought a football to a recent practice, and Hamm expertly knocked in field goals from 35 yards.
With her teammates, Hamm can be funny, outgoing, a master of accents, someone who gives as good as she gets. When midfielder Julie Foudy, in a moment of introspection, said that she wanted to retire from soccer to do something that "makes a difference," Hamm dabbed at fake tears and burst into a mock Bette Midler number, singing, "Did you ever know that you're my hero?"
Nor does she mind pinpricking her own public image. On the box of Soccer Barbie, which she endorses, Hamm is pictured with a doll's freeze-dried smile and eternity-proof makeup. "You can't tell which one is the Barbie," she said.
In filming the Gatorade commercial with Jordan, cameras began rolling in the unscripted judo sequence, and Hamm moved confidently toward Jordan and flung him to the mat. He played along, said Bober, Hamm's agent, "but he waved his finger and said, 'That better not make the final cut.' "
It did.
The cameras will be rolling for real in the coming weeks, and there will be no playacting. Everyone will be watching.
"All sports lacking a profile really have to push one or two of the best athletes who have a number of qualities in and out of the game," said Julie Murray, captain of the Australian women's team. "Sometimes it can be daunting, standing up and making speeches when all you want to do is play. But I know it is better for the sport and for the people who will follow in Mia's shoes. Girls who are 13, 14, 15 are looking at her. The sport is better off doing that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 19, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on June 11 about the soccer player Mia Hamm referred imprecisely to her goal-scoring record. She leads all players, male or female, with 109 goals scored in international competition, not in professional league games.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Anything you can do, I can do better." Mia Hamm went one-on-one against Michael Jordan for a Gatorade commercial. (Foote, Cone and Belding)(pg. A1); Mia Hamm has lived up to expectations, scoring 109 career goals, more than any other man or woman to play the game. (Aubrey Washington/Allsport)(pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316219 OTHER FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS316211 RUBBER AND PLASTICS FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS315239 WOMEN'S AND GIRLS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS315228 MEN'S AND BOYS' CUT AND SEW OTHER OUTERWEAR MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (55%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (55%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (55%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: SOCCER; WOMEN; WOMEN'S WORLD CUP (SOCCER); WORLD CUP (SOCCER); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SOCCER (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); GENDER EQUALITY (73%); BASKETBALL (71%); OLYMPICS (70%); MARTIAL ARTS (70%); 

PERSON: LONGMAN, JERE; HAMM, MIA MICHAEL JORDAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999



230 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Tort Tale

 BODY:

To the Editor:
In saying that "the most important thing you and I can do to improve our economy and create jobs in Texas is to reform our civil justice system," Gov. George W. Bush argues a position that makes little real economic sense (front page, June 7). States have been adopting significant reductions in tort liability since the mid-1980's. To date, no well-accepted empirical evidence shows that these reforms either increased employment or reduced insurance rates. 
 Tort law is not primarily an economic-development policy tool. Tort law is intended to encourage business to take cost-justified precautions. While eliminating frivolous lawsuits is a valuable goal, measures like caps on damages do not distinguish between justified and frivolous suits. They only encourage companies to act irresponsibly.
 
LISA KIMMEL
Oakland, Calif., June 7, 1999
 
The writer, a lawyer, is a Ph.D candidate in economics at the University of California at Berkeley. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (85%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (85%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TORTS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TORT REFORM (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); TRENDS (69%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1999



231 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

EURO STRENGTHENS. The dollar had its worst week against the euro since the currency was introduced in January, falling 1.6 percent on rate fears. In New York, the euro settled at $1.05350, up from $1.0490 on Thursday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since January. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EURO (92%); INTEREST RATES (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1999



232 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Punitive Tariffs Are Approved On Imports of Japanese Steel

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11

 BODY:
United States steel producers won an important ruling today when the International Trade Commission, a Federal agency, approved punitive tariffs to combat low-priced Japanese shipments.
Tariffs ranging from 18 percent to 67 percent will be ordered by the Clinton Administration within weeks. Those tariffs will effectively make Japanese steel more expensive to sell in the United States, a move intended to offer domestic producers some relief. 
 The trade commission ruled 6 to 0 that Japanese pricing practices on hot-rolled carbon steel, the industry's main product, had harmed or could harm domestic producers. The Commerce Department had previously declared the pricing illegal.
Curtis H. Barnette, chairman and chief executive of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation, said he considered the ruling a vindication for the industry, which blames low-priced imports for the loss of thousands of jobs.
But he said tariffs were not a cure-all. The American industry has been pushing for stronger sanctions, such as quotas covering all steel products from all countries.
"This is just a further step in a lengthy process needed to end our crisis in the industry," Mr. Barnette said. "The vote clearly demonstrates the serious injury we have been sustaining, but our problems continue."
The import surge last year came in the aftermath of the Asian economic crisis, which lowered demand for steel abroad. As a result, foreign producers became more reliant on sales in the healthier economy in the United States.
The tariffs, which will be made retroactive to February, will probably be in place at least five years.
Japanese steel producers blamed politics for the ruling.
"We are disappointed that a majority of the commissioners, facing overwhelming political pressure, ignored the facts and imposed long-term restrictions on hot-rolled steel imports," said Hidenori Tazawa, executive vice president for NKK America Inc.
He said the tariffs "will raise prices and limit supply availability and choice for U.S. steel users."
Another executive, Masaki Sato of Nippon Steel U.S.A. Inc., said that his company was likely to appeal to the United States Court of International Trade in New York. The court handles disputed cases from the trade commission, a fact-finding agency independent from the Administration.
Hot-rolled steel can be used as is in such applications as construction or turned into higher-grade products for use in appliances or automobiles.
The ruling today would not apply to other steel products or to other countries. Hot-rolled shipments from Japan have already fallen to almost insignificant levels partly because of the threat of tariffs, so the vote was mostly about sustaining those reductions.
Supporters of global quotas are hoping for a Senate vote on the issue later this month. The House passed a quota bill in March by a vote of 289 to 141, despite the threat of a Presidential veto.
The American industry accused Japanese, Russian and Brazilian producers of illegally selling hot-rolled steel in the United States at prices below production costs or home-market prices, a practice known as dumping.
The Clinton Administration has tentatively struck deals with Russia and Brazil that will enable those countries to avoid tariffs by voluntarily reducing steel shipments.
The foreign producers contend that the pricing trends are a result of normal market forces. They also say that the American industry's claims of harm are exaggerated because last year's declines in profits and production followed one of the industry's best years ever. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BS (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (70%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (70%); NKK AMERICA INC (65%); NIPPON STEEL U S A INC (64%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); DUMPING (TRADE TERM); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) TARIFFS & DUTIES (93%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); VETO (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); POLITICS (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1999



233 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1584 words

HEADLINE: An American in Warsaw;
U.S. Businesswoman Challenges Old Phone Monopoly

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WARSAW, June 11

 BODY:
The lobby of the Sheraton Hotel here was packed with dark-suited bankers last Wednesday, when Barbara J. Lundberg blazed in.
Her strawberry-red hair, bright enough to spot across the huge room, had once again begun to rebel against her efforts to tame it. But her freckled face scrunched up in easy laughter. 
 "I have never seen a picture of me that I liked," she remarked as she begged to avoid being photographed.
Yet like it or not, Mrs. Lundberg is the center of a lot of attention here.
A former Wall Street executive who set up a venture capital fund in Warsaw nine years ago, Mrs. Lundberg is suddenly in charge of one of Poland's biggest and messiest conglomerates. Her goal? Engineering a billion-dollar bet on telecommunications to compete against Poland's former state telephone monopoly in both wireless and traditional telephone service.
The opportunities and the risks are enormous. Poland, with its population of 42 million and its remarkably strong growth, has become Central Europe's hottest target for foreign investors.
Foreign investors, mostly banks, own 50 percent of the shares in Poland's banks. Foreign phone companies, including SBC Communications of the United States and Deutsche Telekom A.G. of Germany, are circling with interest around the plan to sell off a big chunk of the national phone company.
But it is hard to match the audacity of Mrs. Lundberg's ambition. If she succeeds, analysts predict Elektrim's debt will double to about $1 billion next year. The potential profit gains could be equally staggering.
Four months ago, Mrs. Lundberg became the chief executive of Elektrim S.A., a sprawling post-Communist behemoth that had alienated shareholders by buying up businesses from cable manufacturing to chicken farms.
Recruited by rebellious shareholders, many of them American investment firms, she dismissed Elektrim's top management and moved to sell off stakes in more than 80 companies.
But far more important, she has plunged into the telecommunications business with a string of acquisitions totaling more than $1 billion.
On Tuesday, she cemented a key part of her plan by teaming up with Vivendi S.A., the French media and telecommunications conglomerate. Vivendi will invest about $750 million to acquire 30 percent of Elektrim's telecommunications ventures, which will be pooled into a new joint-venture company.
Next week, Mrs. Lundberg plans to up the ante once again. In need of big money to build high-speed networks around Poland, she will try to raise about $500 million through a global convertible bond offering.
Not only are the financial risks a huge challenge; so are the political ones. Elektrim's strategy assumes in large part that the Polish Government will allow only one rival in each city to Telekomunikacja Ploska S.A., the former Polish telephone monopoly. But political leaders have vacillated under strong lobbying pressure from a Swedish-backed rival, Netia Holdings.
Worried about violating Securities and Exchange Commission restrictions against promoting stocks before a public securities offering, Mrs. Lundgren refused to talk about her plans with American publications this week.
Nevertheless, she has long been one of Warsaw's most visible foreigners, and the broad elements of her plan are clear.
 Unlike many expatriate American entrepreneurs here, Mrs. Lundberg did not come to Warsaw because of a Polish ancestry. Now 46, she had worked as a venture capitalist in California and later as vice president for corporate finance at Kidder, Peabody & Company.
In 1990, less than a year after the collapse of Poland's last Communist regime, she organized the Polish American Enterprise Fund, a venture capital fund financed initially by the American Government to encourage the development of Poland's private sector.
The fund was successful enough that she subsequently began several other investment outfits, which together managed about $500 million at the end of last year.
Elektrim, by contrast, was a direct holdover from the Communist era. Formed around several of Poland's formerly state-owned industrial companies, it was privatized as the country's biggest producer of power-generation equipment, electrical cable and engineering services.
Like many other privatized companies in Eastern Europe, it remained largely under control of the same managers as it had during the old regime. The key player was Andrzej Skowronski, its chairman, who took the company public on the Warsaw Stock Exchange and then used its cash flow to buy up a treasure trove of smaller companies.
But despite Poland's steady economic ascent under governments that consistently pushed the country toward private enterprise, many soured investors came to view Elektrim as a bad example of Russian-style crony capitalism.
Elektrim's strategy was opaque, and its financial disclosure was even worse. Dozens of companies and stakes in other companies were hived off into separate entities, with the result that few people had any idea what its true assets really were.
By the end of last year, Elektrim reported sales of $182 million and a loss of $94 million. But those numbers did not include many of the company's biggest properties, like its big cable-producing business or its 34 percent stake in one of Poland's two nationwide cellular telephone carriers, Polska Telefonia Cyfrowa.
In a recent letter to shareholders, Mrs. Lundberg estimated that revenues from Elektrim's core equipment and engineering businesses were about $886 million.
But the real revolt came after revelations last year that Elektrim had secretly agreed to sell part of its stake in the wireless company -- the one business that enjoyed rocketing sales and profits.
Backed by dissident shareholders, believed to include investment funds run by Merrill Lynch among others, Mrs. Lundberg took over as chief executive in early February.
With an uncanny knack to charm almost anybody, people who know her say Mrs. Lundberg, a twice-divorced mother with a 10-year-old son, is tough and shrewd as well. She knows the key players in Warsaw's elite, and she has mapped the political minefields.
And she has not been shy about imposing her ideas. Besides insuring the departure of Mr. Skowronski, Mrs. Lundberg got rid of Elektrim's vice chairman and chief accountant. Then she recruited two top executives from ABB Asea Brown Boveri's Poland subsidiary to draft a cleanup effort.
Under their blueprint, Elektrim will jettison stakes in more than 80 noncore businesses and refocus on power generation equipment, power engineering and telecommunications.
Of the three, telecommunications is to be the main event. Mrs. Lundberg quickly scrapped the deal to sell off the stake in the wireless company, agreeing to pay the aspiring buyer $25 million to go away.
Instead, she negotiated to acquire a 51 percent stake in the wireless venture, up from 34 percent, for which Elektrim will pay about $700 million. On top of that, she reached a deal to buy up Bresnan International Partners, a cable television operator, for $325 million. Bresnan operates cable systems in northwest Poland as well as a fiber optic network in Warsaw.
Mrs. Lundberg is also negotiating to buy a consortium of local telephone operators in other cities around Poland, a deal that is expected to cost several hundred million dollars.
To top it off, Elektrim will need to invest hundreds of millions of dollars in new networks and to start new businesses.
Knowing she needed strategic partners, Mrs. Lundberg began talks with Deutsche Telekom. But those talks bogged down because of disputes over control.
Mrs. Lundberg had much better luck with Vivendi, a former water company that owns stakes in media companies and competes against France Telecom in both wireless- and wired-phone service.
Analysts and investors have generally applauded the new strategy, but the political risks are enormous.
"The biggest risk is regulatory risk," said Pajak Sobek, an analyst at Wood & Company in Warsaw. "No one knows, including Elektrim, what is going on."
Poland is taking a relatively slow path toward allowing competition in the telephone market. It has begun issuing licenses allowing a single rival to the state system in each of Poland's major cities. Long-distance and international service, which are far more lucrative, will be off-limits for another few years.
But even that modest plan has been wobbly and politically messy. Elektrim waged a long and bitter battle against Netia Holdings, whose biggest shareholder is the Swedish telephone company Telia A.B., just to acquire a local license in Warsaw.
After months of lobbying and acrimony, Elektrim announced this week that the Government had guaranteed it the exclusive license for Warsaw. But then today, just three days later, Polish newspapers quoted Government officials saying they might indeed allow another rival into the Warsaw market.
"That would be very bad for Elektrim because of their assumption that they would be the sole rival for the next five years," Mr. Sobek said. It would also raise deeper fears about future decisions that might change the rules of the game.
Mrs. Lundberg seems determined to stay. Poland, she said, "is my home."
Though she still speaks Polish only haltingly, she quickly won over many Elektrim workers.
"You may speak Polish, and I may speak English," she told workers shortly after arriving. "But in business we are all speaking the same language."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: As chief executive of Elektrim S.A., Barbara J. Lundberg is trying to transform one of Poland's biggest and messiest conglomerates. (Aleksander Jalosinski)
 
Charts/Graph: "Warsaw Pacts"
 
Poland has become Central Europe's hottest target for foreign investors. Elektrim S.A., which recently made Barbara J. Lundberg, an American, its chief executive, is perhaps the most ambitious company there these days.
 
Foreign direct investment in Poland:
Graph shows figures, in billions of dollars, for period beginning in 1991 through March 1999. (Source: Planecon)
 
ELEKTRIM S.A. AT A GLANCE
 
A holdover from the Communist era, the company is being transformed from a hodgepodge of separate industrial holdings into a Western-style enterprise focused largely on telecommunications.
 
1998 operating results, in millions
 
Wireless
REVENUE: $460
PROFIT: $ 26
 
Power cable
REVENUE: $376
PROFIT: $ 9
 
Power engineering
REVENUE: $205
PROFIT: $ 4
 
Elektrim had a net loss of $86 million in '98 because of $90 million in write-offs, mainly related to disposal of fringe businesses.
 
DEALS SINCE LUNDBERG ARRIVED (VALUE OF DEAL, IN MILLIONS)
 
Bresnan International Partners -- $325
Cable television operator in Warsaw
STATUS: BUYING THE COMPANY
 
Polish Telephone Operators -- N.A.
Local telephone consortium
STATUS: NEGOTIATING TO BUY
 
Polska Telefonia Cyfrowa -- $700
Nationwide cellular service
STATUS: BUYING CONTROLLING STAKE
 
Vivendi S.A. -- $750
The French company will acquire 30 percent of Elektrim's telecommunications business.
STATUS: ALLIANCE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: T (NYSE) (91%); DTE (FRA) (83%); DTE (BIT) (83%); VIV (PAR) (81%); VIV (BIT) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3612 POWER, DISTRIBUTION, & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMERS (66%); 

COUNTRY: POLAND (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (94%); 

COMPANY: ELEKTRIM; VIVENDI SA; SBC COMMUNICATIONS; DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG AT&T INC (91%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (83%); VIVENDI (81%); ELEKTRIM SA (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: ELEKTRIM; VIVENDI SA; SBC COMMUNICATIONS; DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG

GEOGRAPHIC: POLAND; POLAND (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WARSAW, POLAND (94%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; PRIVATIZATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); SHAREHOLDERS (87%); LOBBYING (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BONDS (75%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); BOND ISSUES (67%); CHICKEN FARMING (62%); JOINT VENTURES (55%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; LUNDBERG, BARBARA J BARBARA J LUNDBERG (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1999



234 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Prospect of Rise in Interest Rates Takes Toll on Equities

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average fell yesterday for a fourth consecutive day after economic reports deepened investors' concerns that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates later this month. Internet shares like America Online and CMGI slumped.
Any question of the Fed's raising rates is "gone because of the extreme strength in the U.S. economy," said David Mead, chief investment officer at Harris Bank in Chicago, which oversees $25 billion. 
 "It's a given the Fed will tighten," Mr. Mead said, adding that the only remaining issue was whether the increase would be a half-point rather than a quarter.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 130.76 points, or 1.23 percent, to 10,490.51, extending its loss for the last four days to 456 points. The Nasdaq composite index declined 36.74 points, or 1.48 percent, to 2,447.88, pulled lower by Microsoft and CMGI. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index decreased 9.18 points, or seven-tenths of a percent, to 1,293.64.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 1 7/32, to 87 22/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.16 percent, from 6.06 percent on Thursday.
For the week, the Dow average lost 2.9 percent, its biggest weekly loss since a 3.1 percent drop for the week ended Jan. 15. The S.& P. 500 fell 2.6 percent, and the Nasdaq dropped 1.2 percent.
The Commerce Department said yesterday that retail sales rose 1 percent in May. Sales excluding automobiles rose half a percent.
The report on producer prices matched expectations. Traders said they were more concerned about retail sales, because the Fed cited consumer demand when it warned last month that it was leaning toward increasing interest rates.
The University of Michigan's preliminary index of June consumer sentiment rose to 109 from 106.8, above economists' expectations of 106.2. Gains and losses indicate Americans' degree of comfort with their finances and the state of the economy.
"The market is pulling apart trying to sort out" whether the Fed will focus on "the stability of prices or the strengthening of the economy," Tracy Herrick, chief investment strategist at Jefferies & Company in Los Angeles, said.
The New York Stock Exchange imposed its "downtick" rule 20 minutes before the close as the Dow briefly fell 190 points. The rule is meant to slow market declines by forcing traders to wait until shares rise before executing orders involving groups of stocks and equity index futures. It was the 15th time the rule was imposed since Feb. 16, when the trigger was raised from a 50-point move in the Dow industrials.
The decline in stocks and bonds came amid speculation about the health of Tiger Management L.L.C., a hedge fund. A spokesman for Tiger said the fund was able to handle redemptions by its investors and was not meeting with the Federal Reserve.
"Tiger is in a highly liquid position," the spokesman said. "It has enough cash on hand to pay out its redemptions fourfold." He called talk that the Fed was holding a special meeting about the fund "absurd."
A Fed spokesman declined to comment.
About 698 million shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange, below the three-month daily average of 802 million.
"It's Friday afternoon and there's light volume, so any move in the market is exaggerated," Bob Basel, chief listed trader at Salomon Smith Barney, said. "Stocks are falling because people didn't like the fact that retail sales were higher."
CMGI fell 11 3/4, to 89 3/4, after the Internet venture fund said it lost 30 cents in its fiscal third quarter, which ended April 30, compared with a profit a year earlier, as its operating expenses almost doubled. The loss was wider than the 13-cent average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by the First Call Corporation, which tracks corporate earnings.
Ebay, the Internet's leading auctioneer, fell 16 13/16 , to 165 7/8, after a computer problem forced it to suspend its auction business.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (62%); AOL INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); FUTURES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BOND MARKETS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RETAIL SALES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1999



235 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs;
The leader of Kosovo's Muslims, himself a chief victim of the terror, sees reason to hope for a lasting reconciliation in the Balkans.

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels 

 BODY:
Dr. Rexhep Boja, the Grand Mufti of Kosovo, left New York last Sunday for Istanbul. Yesterday he was heading for the refugee camps in Albania and Macedonia so that he could be with people as they faced the joys and terrors of returning home.
Home for Dr. Boja himself is what it is for many other Kosovars: a burned-out dwelling, in Pristina in his case, from which he and his family were driven at gunpoint shortly after the NATO bombing began. 
 But home for Dr. Boja (pronounced BOY-ah) also seems to be a remarkable zone of faith in God, in the future and in human nature -- a zone where sorrow nests, but no discernible trace of animosity.
The Mufti was, of course, a marked man. As the elected religious leader of Kosovo's Muslims, he had long been harassed, arrested and interrogated by Yugoslav officials. Then he led the funeral prayers for Bajram Kelmendi, a neighbor and prominent human rights advocate. Mr. Kelmendi and two sons were seized on the first night of the bombing; their corpses were found two days later.
It was lunchtime not long afterward when armed men arrived at Dr. Boja's home. Forced entrance, orders to lie on the floor, demands for money, seizure of documents, house set aflame, the march to the train, people shoved into the cars through open windows -- the sequence is by now all too familiar.
The 50 miles to the Macedonian border took eight hours. At each prolonged halt, the passengers feared they were about to be shot, or used as shields against NATO bombers.
"Yes, I was praying and depending on God," Dr. Boja said, "and many people were saying, 'Pray for us.' Everyone was scared." Sitting in a Manhattan hotel restaurant next to a translator, he raised his eyes to Heaven and threw up his hands in a manner expressing a state of both helplessness and supplication.
It was an expansive gesture for this grave, neatly bearded man in a dark suit who most often bent forward as he spoke and made small, graceful circles with his cupped hands, like a potter rounding, shaping and smoothing his words into reality. It was typical that he concluded his story of flight with a plea: Please don't sensationalize it so as merely to stir up more passion.
Dr. Boja was in the United States under the auspices of the World Conference on Religion and Peace, a global coalition of religious leaders addressing issues of conflict resolution, human rights and economic development. The organization is convinced that cooperation among Balkan religious leaders will be a crucial component of any reconstruction and reconciliation in the region.
Dr. Boja expressed disappointment that Kosovo's Serbian Orthodox leaders had not condemned the anti-Albanian terror. Then he quickly qualified his remarks. "Maybe myself I would try to find some excuse for the Orthodox leadership," he said, "because we know the mentality of the Communist regime: if any priests said a single word, they could pay with their lives."
For Dr. Boja, there was clear continuity between the anti-religious attitudes of the earlier "Communist regime" and the current Belgrade Government's efforts to inflame and manipulate religious feelings. As a youth, he was spurned by Communist organizations and condemned by Communist publications for his devotion to Islam.
He challenges the widespread impression that Balkan history is nothing but a chronicle of religious warfare. In Kosovo, it is quite the contrary, he said: three religious communities -- Muslim, Orthodox and Roman Catholic -- long coexisted peacefully. There are sacred sites of the Serbian Orthodox in Kosovo, he said, that for many years have been in the safekeeping of Albanian Muslim Kosovars, who consider them part of a national heritage and spared them damage even as ethnic conflict grew acute. In earlier years, imams and priests were often jailed by Communist officials in the same cells, and emerged friends.
Dr. Boja's hopes for the future brightened even while he was in New York. The conversation in the restaurant took place before the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic, accepted NATO's terms; it continued, four days later, after that initial acceptance, over tea at the home of William F. Vendley, secretary general of the World Conference on Religion and Peace.
What appeared to remain constant, however, was his conviction that with the aid of "civilized nations" -- first among them the United States, in his eyes a model of religious pluralism -- reconstruction and tolerance could overcome bitterness and revenge.
At moments during the talk at Dr. Vendley's home, it was hard not to think the Mufti naive. Yet only that morning he had been visiting refugees at Fort Dix, N.J., and he knew he would soon be counseling families learning not only of homes and livelihoods destroyed but also of sons murdered and daughters raped.
"We need to visit, advise, encourage and guide the families, psychologically and spiritually," he said, "and help them look to the future, not be caught in the past."
Nor was Dr. Boja discouraged by the fact that the Islamic center in Pristina, which had also functioned as a civic and educational center with newly installed computer technology, was now gutted: "Even the spoons were taken and everything shot up with machine guns."
Dr. Vendley recalled having been welcomed there in the last year.
"You will come again," the Mufti said softly. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (96%); SERBIA (96%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (93%); ALBANIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); KOSOVO (96%); SERBIA (96%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (93%); ALBANIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ISLAM RELIGION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); REFUGEES (78%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); RESTAURANTS (62%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER; BOJA, REXHEP (DR) REXHEP BOJA (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1999



236 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Strong Consumer Spending Worsens the Interest-Rate Jitters;
Data Convince Many That Fed Will Move; Yield Climbs to 6.16%

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
American consumers, the backbone of the second-longest economic expansion ever, are not showing any signs of pinching pennies. And their spending spree is putting continued upward pressure on market interest rates, with long-term yields jumping to a 19-month high yesterday.
Automobile and furniture buying helped push retail sales up 1 percent in May, the Government reported yesterday. 
 A separate economic report showed that prices paid to producers of finished goods rose two-tenths of 1 percent last month, suggesting that inflation was still in check. But price increases outside the oil sector in crude goods, like wheat, and intermediate goods, like flour, could signal a turnaround in the global economy. Such a turnaround would mean more demand for credit and would put even more upward pressure on interest rates.
The prospect of an economic rebound in Asia gained credibility this week after Japan reported that its economy grew a surprisingly strong 1.9 percent in the first three months of the year. Economists found reason for optimism even after the Japanese Government rushed to play down the size of the increase, suggesting the growth rate would not be sustained.
"We agree with everyone that first-quarter G.D.P. overstates the rate of revival in Japan," said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company. "But we buy the notion that Japan is now rebounding."
The data from this country and Japan strengthened the view of many analysts that the Federal Reserve would raise short-term interest rates to slow economic growth and prevent any surge in prices. Economists expect a rise of a quarter of a percentage point when the Fed's policy makers meet at the end of the month.
Like many of his colleagues, Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, expects the central bank to push rates up yet another quarter-point later in the year. "The question now," he said, "is what will the Fed do after that" second rate increase.
The new data and growing concern about how far the Fed might go to slow the economy helped send interest rates higher again yesterday in a very jittery market.
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond jumped to 6.16 percent, its highest since November 1997, as the price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 1 7/32, to 87 22/32. This selloff capped the worst week for bonds in three and a half months; the yield on the 30-year-bond was 5.96 percent last Friday. The yield has now risen nearly 1.5 percentage points from the 30-year low that was set last October.
And as interest rates moved higher yesterday, the stock market tumbled. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 130.76 points, or 1.2 percent, to finish at 10,490.51.
Talk of bond sales by big investors, which was not confirmed, and other rumors about hedge fund troubles pushed the bond market sharply lower in the afternoon. Some traders said the Japanese were selling, while others said that big money managers who had waited too long to sell were jumping in to stop their losses.
The market should continue to be volatile as investors await next week's report on May consumer prices, scheduled for release on Wednesday, and the appearance of Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, before Congress the next day. "There is a lot of nervousness about that," said Thomas Connor, head government trader at J. P. Morgan Securities.
The Consumer Price Index jumped seven-tenths of 1 percent in April, and many analysts say that even if the May increase is more moderate, the Fed will still raise interest rates.
Based on various market monitors, investors seem to be expecting an increase of at least half a percentage point in the Fed's short-term target for Federal funds, which is what banks charge each other for overnight loans. But one barometer is leaning toward a bigger move. The yield on the two-year Treasury note jumped yesterday to 5.69 percent, which leaves it almost a full percentage point above the central bank's current Federal funds target of 4.75 percent.
If that yield moves just a little higher, it will indicate that some investors are expecting a total move of three-quarters of a percentage point in a series of steps. Such a move by the central bank would erase all three of the quarter-point rate cuts made last fall in a successful effort to calm global financial markets after the devaluation of the Russian currency and the near-collapse of a major hedge fund.
Mr. Barbera of Hoenig & Company contends that long-term rates could edge toward 6.50 percent, rather then the 6.25 percent peak many analysts are discussing. He contends that much of the rise in market rates this year reflects increasing demand for credit as the economy grows, not just concerns about inflation. If this is the case, he said, a revival of the global economy will put much more pressure on interest rates than expected.
The 1 percent increase in retail sales in May came after what had appeared to be two anemic months. But yesterday's report from the Commerce Department also included an upward revision in April sales, to an increase of four-tenths of 1 percent from the initial report of one-tenth of 1 percent. Retail sales rose one-tenth of 1 percent in March.
The May increase was led by a 2.7 percent jump in automobile sales, a 1.1 percent climb in sales of furniture and other home furnishings, and a rise of eight-tenths of 1 percent in department store sales, adjusted for differences related to the seasons, holidays and number of business days. Over the last 12 months, retail sales have risen 7.8 percent.
On producer prices, the increase of two-tenths of 1 percent that was registered in finished goods in May followed gains of half a percent in April and two-tenths in March. The big difference between May and April was the price of energy. In April, when the price of oil climbed above $18 a barrel, prices for finished energy goods, like gasoline, jumped 5.1 percent. But last month, when crude oil prices dropped back to $17 a barrel, finished-goods energy prices were unchanged. The gasoline index dropped 2.7 percent, after a record 29.1 percent increase, on a seasonally adjusted basis, in April.
The core producer index for finished goods, which excludes energy and food, depicted a more restrained situation. It has risen one-tenth of 1 percent in each of the last two months and through the first five months of the year is unchanged at an annual rate. In the same period the overall finished-goods index is up at a 2 percent annual rate after being unchanged in 1998.
"This lift in commodity prices and the revival in the early stages of processing does reflect that the global economy is on the mend," Mr. Berner of Morgan Stanley said, "and that is consistent with inflation moving higher."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Retail Sales" plots total retail sales, from Jan. 1998 through May 1999. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM HOENIG & CO INC (67%); HOENIG & CO LTD (67%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); BONDS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); RETAILERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STATISTICS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); TRENDS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1999



237 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place -- Strong Consumer Spending Worsens the Interest-Rate Jitters;
Once Again, Wall St. Worries About Hedge Funds

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Investors stung by falling bond prices and a strengthening Japanese yen fled the Treasury market yesterday, driving the 30-year bond yield up to 6.16 percent, its highest level since November 1997.
The violent move, from 6.06 percent the previous day, was fed in part by Wall Street fears that some large investment portfolios known as hedge funds had encountered a fresh set of problems. 
 The day began rather calmly, with bond investors taking in stride the increase of 1 percent in retail sales in May and the rise of two-tenths of 1 percent in producer prices reported by the Government. Then, around midday, talk swirled about liquidations by hedge funds, which are open to wealthy individuals and institutions. This brought even more sellers to the market.
Many of the sellers appeared to be unwinding a type of trade that has been extremely popular among speculative investors in recent months, known as the yen-carry trade. An investor making such a bet borrows funds in Japan at prevailing interest rates there, which are far lower than those in the United States, and then uses the money to buy bonds in the United States. The difference between what investors pay in borrowing costs and what they receive on their investments has been alluringly high.
Or it was until Wednesday, when the yen began rallying strongly against the dollar. Then came the news on Thursday that the Japanese economy grew 1.9 percent in the first quarter of 1999, the nation's first growth reading in six quarters. The dollar fell 2.5 percent against the yen in four days of trading.
At the same time, United States bond prices were falling, and yields rising, on fears that the Federal Reserve Board would raise interest rates at its June 30 meeting. So any investor in a yen-carry trade was losing on both sides of the transaction: the stronger yen meant less for investors repatriating their funds into dollars and falling bond prices created losses as well.
Because the yen-carry trade has been so popular among speculative investors, such as those managing hedge funds for wealthy clients, the rising yen and declining bonds raised the specter of a financial market dislocation like that caused last fall by the near-demise of Long-Term Capital Management, a fund run by John Meriwether, a former Salomon trader.
Contributing to hedge-fund fears is the fact that some of the best-known portfolios have had a poor year, with some investors abandoning ship. Through June 3, Tiger Management, a hedge fund with $13 billion run by Julian Robertson, had lost 7.36 percent. Quantum Fund, the flagship fund overseen by George Soros, was down 14.8 percent as of June 4.
A spokesman for Tiger Management said yesterday that the fund had plenty of ready cash and could cover its investor redemptions four times over. The fund allows investors to exit only twice a year, and redemption requests for the latest period were due by May 31. People on Wall Street said that Tiger had experienced redemptions of about $1 billion.
In addition to performance problems of its own, the Quantum Fund of Mr. Soros has recently experienced management turmoil. Three high-level managers left last month, and Mr. Soros said at a news conference Thursday that he expected to hire new managers shortly to improve the fund's returns.
A person close to the firm said that it was also interviewing candidates to fill the new post of chief executive. The chief would run the operation and report to Mr. Soros.
People in the hedge fund community may also have been unnerved by the news that one of the biggest and oldest investors in the Soros fund was liquidating some holdings. Reuters reported that Haussman Holdings N.V., which manages $3.5 billion for investors, had reduced its Quantum Fund investment to 8 percent of Haussman assets, from 12 percent at the end of 1998. Hedge fund watchers say that the Haussman action is significant because the firm was one of Mr. Soros' earliest investors.
With memories of the rescue of Long-Term Capital still fresh, skittishness about hedge funds is to be expected, particularly among the banks and brokerage firms that lend to them. A senior bank executive with knowledge of Quantum Fund's portfolio said yesterday that lenders had very recently looked at the fund's positions. The lenders came away untroubled, this person said. Calls to the Soros Fund spokesman for comment were not returned. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TIGER MANAGEMENT LLC; QUANTUM FUND HAUSSMAN HOLDINGS NV (60%); TIGER MANAGEMENT CORP (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIGER MANAGEMENT LLC; QUANTUM FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY; HEDGE FUNDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES HEDGE FUNDS (96%); BOND MARKETS (93%); BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); RETAIL SALES (55%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN GEORGE SOROS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1999



238 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dow Jones Average Drops On Interest Rate Concerns
The Dow Jones industrial average declined for a fourth consecutive day after economic reports deepened investors' concerns that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates later this month. The Dow average fell 130.76 points, or 1.23 percent, to 10,490.51. 
 Other market gauges also dropped. The Nasdaq composite index, which includes many computer issues, declined 36.74 points, or 1.48 percent, to 2,447.88, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index decreased 9.18 points, or seven-tenths of a percent, to 1,293.64. Page C3.
 
Companies Fight Computer Attacks
Boeing and other big companies worldwide scrambled to halt the spread of a malicious computer program that began infecting computers in Israel on Monday and spread rapidly into Europe and the United States, carried by E-mail. It destroys files created by Microsoft programs, including Word and Excel, and infects entire networks. C4.
 
Service Resumes on Ebay Web Site
The popular on-line auction service Ebay experienced one of the worst service disruptions in recent Internet memory, but resumed service late Friday. C14.
 
Hechinger Set to Close 89 Stores
The home improvement chain Hechinger filed for bankruptcy protection and plans to close 89 stores to focus on its healthier 117 outlets. Separately, Kmart said it would reduce its earnings by about $230 million because it had guaranteed the leases on the Builders Square chain, which it sold to a venture that was combined with Hechinger two years ago. C4.
 
Japan to Create 700,000 Jobs
With unemployment at a postwar high of 4.8 percent, the Japanese Government announced a plan to create more than 700,000 jobs. The measures would include offering subsidies to emerging industries like biotechnology and telecommunications. But the Government did not say how much it intended to spend, making it difficult to assess the plan's potential for stimulating the economy. C2.
 
Delta Delays Aircraft Order
Delta Air Lines said that it would defer an order for 11 Boeing 777 aircraft and that it would put two 777's that it already owns on the market because it could not reach an agreement with its pilots on pay scales for flying the airplanes. The pilots, calling the 777's moneymakers, have asked for $319 an hour to fly the 777, while Delta has offered them $239 an hour. C4.
 
New Nissan Chief Plans Changes
Carlos Ghosn, the former Renault executive who will soon be helping manage Nissan Motor, gave reporters a peek at where he hopes to help steer the Japanese car maker. C2.
 
Trade Victory for American Steel
The International Trade Commission, a Federal agency, handed United States steel producers an important victory, approving punitive tariffs to combat low-priced Japanese shipments. Tariffs ranging from 18 percent to 67 percent will be ordered by the Clinton Administration within weeks. C3.
 
G.M. Is Buying Arriva Fleet Unit
Arriva has agreed to sell its automotive fleet-management business to the finance subsidiary of General Motors for 235 million ($376 million). C3.
 
Tracking Pets by Microchips
Microchips are reuniting lost pets with their owners. At least 1.6 million American dogs and cats now have identifying chips the size of a grain of rice implanted in their shoulders, and three manufacturers -- Home Again, Infopet and Avid -- are working to develop an industry standard. Now, some people suggest, the same technology could be used at hospitals to be sure babies are not switched and later to help find children who are lost or kidnapped. A9.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,490.51 down 130.76
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.16% up 0.10
The Dollar -- 118.08 yen down 0.76

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); DAL (NYSE) (52%); 7201 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (85%); BOEING CO (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (52%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (85%); JOB CREATION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (74%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CLOSINGS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); AIRLINES (66%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (66%); HOME CENTERS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUCTIONS (52%); 

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1999



239 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Indonesia's Tentative Democracy

 BODY:
After 44 years of scripted elections and stultifying military rule, the people of the world's fourth-largest country, Indonesia, got their chance at real democracy this week. They grasped it enthusiastically. Fears of violence proved unfounded. Press coverage was admirably free. On Monday more than 100 million Indonesians, 90 percent of those eligible, cast ballots for Parliament.
Regrettably, delays in the vote count have now raised fears of possible manipulation. Any such tampering would have disastrous consequences, undermining Indonesia's prospects for political stability and economic recovery. There are, however, other plausible explanations for the slowdown, and international monitors and opposition parties have so far refrained from condemnation. 
 With some 20 percent of the vote now tallied, the front-runner is the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle, or P.D.I.P., led by Megawati Sukarnoputri, the daughter of Indonesia's first President, Sukarno, and a leading presidential candidate herself. President B. J. Habibie's military-backed Golkar party is hovering between second and third, well behind Mrs. Megawati's party. Projections suggest that the P.D.I.P. will probably end up with the largest parliamentary delegation. With 48 parties fielding candidates, no one group is likely to win a clear majority.
Indonesia's next president will be chosen this fall by a special assembly made up of the 462 newly elected members of Parliament, 38 delegates nominated by the armed forces and 200 others chosen by local assemblies and designated interest groups. In this assembly the military and its Golkar allies may try to use bribery, backroom dealing or intimidation to impose their own favorite candidate despite the opposition parties' strong showing this week. General Wiranto, the armed forces commander who last year played a helpful role in easing Indonesia's long-serving dictator, Suharto, from power, must make sure that his fellow officers do not try to overturn the voters' choice.
The next president's priority task will be to lead Indonesia out of the economic crisis that has thrown 20 million of its people into poverty since 1997. That will require rebuilding a shattered banking system, cleaning up the crony business empires set up during the long Suharto dictatorship and regaining the trust of international investors. The next president must also spark enough growth to rebuild drastically reduced tax revenues so that the Government can resume paying its bills. It will help if some of the illicit billions allegedly amassed by the Suharto family can be recovered. The Clinton Administration is rightly looking into whether any such money is now being held in the United States.
Mrs. Megawati has been vague about her economic plans beyond rejecting the Socialism favored by her father and embracing the market. Mr. Habibie, her likely rival, has long been associated with Mr. Suharto and his business cronies. Indonesians deserve to have the hope and enthusiasm they showed during this election vindicated. There must be a clean break from the electoral manipulations of the past and from the failed economic policies of both the Sukarno and the Suharto eras. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); TRENDS (66%); BRIBERY (64%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1999



240 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 
Russian Troops Enter Kosovo Before NATO
A long column of Russian troops entered Kosovo and its capital amid scenes of wild celebration by local Serbs. The Russian Foreign Minister said the move into Pristina, which came hours before NATO peacekeepers were scheduled to enter Kosovo, was a mistake and that the soldiers would be ordered to leave. A1 

NATO troops moved into Kosovo by air and ground this morning. The Russian troops' arrival in Pristina only hours before had thrown the operation into doubt. A1
 
The White House was stunned to learn of the Russian troop movement, after receiving assurances from Moscow that its troops would not move in until NATO had given them a green light. A7
 
Gen. Wesley K. Clark, the NATO commander, told allied ambassadors that the international peacekeeping force would try to "hold Kosovo together" until international relief agencies could set up operations. A7
 
President Clinton visited Whiteman Air Force Base, Mo., the home of the B-2 stealth bomber, to extol American air power, but he devoted as much of his speech to praising American-style race relations, asserting that NATO's victory in Kosovo had been one of ethnic diversity over "ethnic cleansing." A7
 
Korean Standoff Escalates
South Korean patrol boats rammed at least three North Korean vessels, raising tensions in the five-day standoff in the Yellow Sea. No shots were fired, and the six North Korean naval vessels in the area retreated after the ramming. Later, several North Korean vessels returned to the area, and the standoff continued. A3
 
A Request for 'Mr. Pope'
The Chief Rabbi of Poland, seizing his moment in a receiving line in Warsaw, brushed past protocol to ask Pope John Paul II to order the removal of a large cross outside the Auschwitz death camp. A papal spokesman later said the cross was a "local issue" and did not concern the Vatican. The Chief Rabbi's televised remark shocked many viewers and resurrected a painful issue that Catholic and Jewish leaders have been seeking to smooth over during the Pope's visit. A3
 
World Briefing A5
 
NATIONAL A9-11, 16
 
House Crime Bill Attracts Wave of Gun Amendments
Republicans and Democrats filed more than 200 amendments to a juvenile-crime House bill that has become a vehicle for gun-control and other anti-violence measures. The amendments, which will be winnowed before the bill reaches the floor next week, included the posting of the Ten Commandments in classrooms and the creation of a new category of "violently obscene" entertainment. Republicans said the stakes of getting something through the House were high, with the credibility of Speaker J. Dennis Hastert's leadership on the line. A10
 
The N.R.A. finds itself right where many of its leaders want it to be: under attack, gaining new members and raising new money. A10
 
Financial Disclosure Reports
Senate leaders, whose salaries are the highest in the chamber, disclosed that their earnings and assets paled in comparison with some of their multimillionaire colleagues'. A11
 
Clinton Chides the Opposition
President Clinton, responding to a question that suggested he had squandered the voters' trust, said Republicans opposed his policies because they were frustrated that a Democrat had won the White House and taken up all of its perks, like parking spaces. He suggested that they "lighten up." A11
 
Pamphlet Draws Criticism
The Department of Education has come under fire for a pamphlet it drafted to help school districts and colleges avoid being sued over standardized tests. Conservatives accuse the department of trying to abolish tests. A10
 
Tough Competition for College
Preliminary statistics and interviews with college and high school officials indicate that the college application season just ended was the most competitive ever. A1
 
Prostitution in Hollywood
The police in Los Angeles said they had arrested Jody Diane Gibson, known as Babydol, and charged her with running a high-level international prostitution ring. They said it catered to well-known Hollywood figures as well as the head of a major corporation and a professional athlete, but refused to release names. A9
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Albany Moving to Revise Special Education Program
Legislative leaders were said to be nearing an agreement on overhauling the state's special education program to discourage schools from placing disabled students in segregated classrooms. B1
 
Effort on Pedestrian Safety
State lawmakers are likely to give New York City the authority to set speed limits as low as 15 m.p.h., a power the Mayor says will make side streets safer for pedestrians. B1
 
Research-Ethics Violations
Federal officials faulted the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Research Foundation of CUNY for the way they conducted psychiatric experiments that injected hyperactive children with the now-banned diet drug fenfluramine. B5
 
Report on Commissioner's Trip
City lawyers were said to have concluded that Police Commissioner Howard Safir showed poor judgment but violated no rule or law by accepting a trip to the Oscars from a Revlon executive. But the draft report was said to urge that Mr. Safir pay the $7,000 cost of the trip to avoid an appearance of impropriety. B2
 
Beliefs B6
 
OBITUARIES A13
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Knicks Head to N.B.A. Finals
The Knicks won the Eastern Conference title by beating the Indiana Pacers, 90-82, to win their playoff series four games to two. They did it, from midway in the second period on, without Larry Johnson, who left the game with an injured knee. The Knicks meet the San Antonio Spurs for the N.B.A. title. A1
 
Domino Effect in N.B.A.
Phil Jackson, the former Bulls coach, appeared likely to become coach of the Los Angeles Lakers, increasing chances that Don Casey of the Nets and Jeff Van Gundy of the Knicks would keep their jobs. D2
 
N.L. Disciplines Manager
Mets Manager Bobby Valentine was suspended for two games and fined $5,000 for not staying in the clubhouse after his ejection on Wednesday. He said he would appeal. D4
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
U.S. Economy Steams Ahead
Retail sales rose 1 percent in May, while prices paid to producers of finished goods rose two-tenths of 1 percent. The continuing surge in consumer spending and price increases outside the oil sector, taken with indications that the global economy might be heating up, led investors to conclude that the Fed would soon raise interest rates to keep inflation in check. The Dow, the S.& P. 500 and the Nasdaq all slumped; in the bond market, long-term yields jumped to a 19-month high, with the 30-year Treasury bond at 6.16 percent. C1
 
Bank Enacts Privacy Controls
The Bank of America said it would no longer share customer information -- such as addresses, telephone numbers and credit card account numbers -- with outside vendors. C1
 
Publishing Talks Reported
News Corporation's HarperCollins was said to be in talks to acquire Avon Books and William Morrow. C1
 
Ebay Web Site Crashes
The on-line auction house was down for nearly a full day, infuriating customers and raising questions about its technological underpinnings. C14
 
Business Digest C1
 
ARTS & IDEAS B7-14
 
New Type of Scholarly Book
The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation is financing an effort to publish monographs on the Internet to disseminate research and give young scholars a new place to publish. B7
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: Indonesia's tentative democracy; gun games in the House; Steven R. Weisman on Balkan hatreds.
 
Columns: Anthony Lewis.
 
Bridge B12
 
TV Listings B14
 
Crossword B12
 
Weather A12
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SERBIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (92%); HOLY SEE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SERBIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (92%); HOLY SEE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ARMED FORCES (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); AIR FORCES (78%); NAVIES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); MILITARY BASES (72%); MARINE VESSELS (70%); SHOOTINGS (69%); RELIGION (68%); NAVAL VESSELS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (65%); JEWS & JUDAISM (63%); HOLOCAUST (62%); GUN CONTROL (60%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (53%); RACE & RACISM (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1999



241 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 15; Page 6; Column 1; Women's Health 

LENGTH: 2521 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Horror Stories, Good News About Managed Care

BYLINE: By LARRY KATZENSTEIN; Larry Katzenstein is a New York-based health writer whose books include "Viagra: The Potency Promise."

 BODY:
MOST health plans these days are some form of managed care. And for most families, it is the mother who decides which one to use.
"Women visit doctors more than men, and in a family situation, they may be the ones who have primary responsibility for taking children to the doctor," said Elizabeth McGlynn, the director of the Center for Research on Quality in Health Care at the Rand Corporation in Santa Monica, Calif. 
 Wendy Schoales, a homemaker in Everett, Wash., offered another reason: "We're more picky."
Mrs. Schoales's husband works for the Boeing Company, which, like many large employers, offers several health-plan options. Several years ago, when she switched her family from traditional fee-for-service care to managed care to cut expenses, an important motivation was her being able to continue to use the obstetrician and gynecologist who had delivered her first child, Ashlyn. "When you find a doctor you like, you want to stick with him, especially when it comes to an ob-gyn," she said.
Two years ago, Mrs. Schoales's second child, Gavin, was born under managed care but with the same obstetrician and gynecologist. The care was just as good as it had been with Ashlyn, she said, and the cost was significantly lower. "They charged us just one copayment for the whole maternity experience," she said.
For the same reasons, Katharine Davidge of Newton, Mass., also fared well under managed care during the births of her two children. Her experience in getting her managed-care plan to cover treatment for depression, on the other hand, was an exercise in exasperation.
Ms. Davidge's plan subcontracts mental-health services to another company, a common practice in managed care. "I'd call this company and ask, 'Is Dr. X covered?' " she said. "And they'd say no. And then the same thing would happen for Dr. Y and Dr. Z. So, then I asked for a list of practitioners I could see, and it was really bizarre because they just wouldn't give us the list. They said they typically don't give it out."
After several months of phone calls and letters, Ms. Davidge said, she received a list. "It was so small that it was almost impossible for me to find somebody that I knew anything about," she said. "So I gave up."
Managed care would seem tailor-made for women. It provides a coordinated system of care that makes preventive services readily available -- and women use preventive measures at twice the rate men do. Health-maintenance organizations and other managed-care plans remind members to come in for checkups. With a primary-care doctor to facilitate matters, plans are supposed to help route patients to the most appropriate specialist for their ailments -- and all this for a more affordable premium and limited out-of-pocket expenses.
"One reason women's preventive services have always been such a leading issue in managed care is that two of the tests it emphasizes, Pap smears and mammograms, provide the best evidence that preventive testing saves lives," said Dr. Karen Scott Collins, an assistant vice president of The Commonwealth Fund, a philanthropic foundation in New York City that supports research on health and social policy.
YET it is the darker side of managed care that has received most of the attention in recent years -- the follies and tragedies caused by restricted choice of physicians, barriers to needed care, delays in service, limitations on care and a zeal for cost-cutting.
Women, especially, could be excused for thinking that managed care is bad for their health, because some of the most highly publicized outrages attributed to health-management organizations, or H.M.O.'s, and other managed-care plans have involved women's issues: drive-by mastectomies, drive-by deliveries, coverage denied for what were regarded as promising breast-cancer treatments and refusal to let obstetricians and gynecologists be primary- care physicians.
The abuses attributed to managed care have caused a backlash in the form of legislation to make it more accountable, particularly to women. This includes the Newborns' and Mothers' Health Protection Act of 1996, which requires a minimum hospital stay of 48 hours after a normal vaginal birth and 96 hours after a Caesarean section, unless the mother and physician agree to an earlier discharge. Laws in many states mandate that women in managed care be given direct access to an obstetrician and gynecologist without a referral from their primary-care physician, and a Patients' Bill of Rights Act pending in Congress would make choosing an obstetrician and gynecologist for primary care the law of the land.
Despite the mixed reviews that managed care gets from patients and physicians, findings from a 1998 Commonwealth Fund survey, announced last month, suggest that women in managed-care plans fare better in some important ways than those who receive traditional medical care.
"The joke about managed care is that it doesn't manage and it doesn't care," said Humphrey Taylor, the chairman of Louis Harris & Associates of New York City, which conducted the survey. "But the findings from this survey suggest that managed care is serving women at least as well as fee-for-service medicine, and certainly better than some of the managed-care horror stories would suggest."
The survey, conducted by telephone, involved 1,140 women with managed care and 351 women with traditional fee-for-service care, all of them younger than 65. Among the key findings were:
* Women with managed care were more likely to identify a particular doctor as their regular source of care (87 percent of them did so versus 78 percent of those with traditional care).
* Women with managed care were more likely to say that their health plan sends them reminders for preventive care (27 percent versus 18 percent).
* Women with managed care were more likely to have seen an obstetrician and gynecologist as their primary care physician (66 percent versus 61 percent).
* Women with managed care were more likely to have received a Pap smear in the last three years (74 percent versus 67 percent).
* Among women 50 and older, those with managed care were more likely to have received colon-cancer screening (29 percent versus 20 percent) and to have talked with their doctor about hormone-replacement therapy (56 percent versus 50 percent).
* One in five women under both types of coverage reported problems in gaining access to health care, like obtaining an expensive prescription or seeing a specialist.
But the survey has not made believers of many physicians who specialize in women's health. "As a gynecologist, my biggest problem with managed care is the severe restrictions that have been placed on my ability to make independent decisions on how to treat disorders that might require surgery," said Dr. Robert Yelverton of Tampa, Fla., who estimated that 80 percent of his patients have managed care.
Dr. Yelverton said that one managed-care company requires a woman who is bleeding heavily from excessive menstrual flow and has excessive pain with her periods to be confirmed anemic and to be on iron supplements for three months without improvement before being allowed to have a hysterectomy.
THAT requirement "is based on the premise that too many hysterectomies are done," said Dr. Yelverton, who said he believes that most obstetricians and gynecologists would first try hormonal treatment rather than surgery for such problems. "But when that doesn't work, we have patients who are miserable," he said.
Dr. Yelverton, the chairman of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists' primary care committee, said that one of the most highly publicized improvements in managed care, allowing a woman to see an obstetrician and gynecologist as her primary-care provider, "hasn't worked out."
"The vast majority of ob-gyns in this country have opted to remain as specialists rather than act as primary-care physicians," he said, attributing this to the stringent standards that managed-care plans have set for primary-care providers. "None of us could really qualify as primary-care physicians under most of the plans," he said. "And most ob-gyns would have to go back to school for a year or so to do so."
Health care experts consider the measures assessed in the Commonwealth Fund survey -- having a regular doctor or getting regular Pap smears -- to be good indicators of quality of care. But the most crucial measures for evaluating any type of care are the results: diagnosing breast cancer at an early stage, for example. A study published last February in the Journal of the American Medical Association looked at this result and found that in this case, too, managed care had the edge over traditional care.
The study involved nearly 22,000 women over age 65 whose breast cancers were diagnosed between 1988 and 1993. Researchers found that women enrolled in Medicare H.M.O.'s were generally more likely than fee-for-service patients to have had their cancers diagnosed at an earlier stage. And among women who underwent breast-conserving surgery, known as lumpectomy, the H.M.O. enrollees were significantly more likely to have received radiation, the medically recommended accompanying treatment.
So, where does that leave matters? "With three-quarters of all insured women now in some type of managed-care plan, the time has come to shift the focus from whether managed care is better or worse than fee-for-service to making sure that women are receiving quality health care in whatever type of managed-care plan they belong to," said Dr. Collins, the Commonwealth Fund executive.
She and other health-care experts applaud a current voluntary program in which managed-care plans are graded on more than 50 measures, several pertaining to women's health.
This set of measures is known as the Health Plan Employer Data and Information Set. It is administered by the National Committee for Quality Assurance, a private, nonprofit organization also involved in accrediting managed-care plans. The committee's most recent compilation of information, known as Quality Compass 1998, includes Health Plan Employer Data scores and consumer-satisfaction data submitted by 447 commercial managed-care health plans that collectively cover 60 million Americans.
Some managed-care plans do not participate in the program. Others do but do not allow their scores to be publicly reported. But several large employers, including Xerox and General Motors, strongly encourage managed-care plans under contract with them to make their scores public. And some states, including New York, New Jersey and Maryland, require plans to release this information. Working with the committee, the states issue annual managed-care report cards through pamphlets and on their Web sites. The www.health.state.ny.us site has information for New Yorkers.
Regarding mammography screening rates, for example, New York residents can learn the names of the seven health plans -- CDPHP, CHP/Kaiser, Finger Lakes, Health Care Plan, Healthsource HMO, HMO CNY and Preferred Care -- that performed significantly better than the statewide average during 1996 and 1997, and the five health plans -- CIGNA Health Care, MVP, Physicians Health Service, Prudential Health Care Plan and United Healthcare-NYC -- that performed significantly worse.
SOME physicians believe these efforts are having a positive effect. One is Dr. Jeffrey Hankoff, a family physician in Santa Barbara, Calif., who takes care of a large managed-care population and is the medical director of an independent practice association, or I.P.A., a group of about 30 physicians who collectively negotiate contracts with managed-care plans.
"One thing managed care has brought to the table is that quality is the major focus and not a token effort," Dr. Hankoff said. "Every time a patient writes a letter of complaint, our I.P.A. has a committee that reviews it. We're really attempting to make sure that people are getting the care they're supposed to be getting. In a managed-care operation, that's monitored all the time because the plans demand it and the Government demands it of the plans. It's something that managed care really hasn't received credit for."
 
Look at the Stats, Talk to Friends
 HERE are steps that women can take for choosing a high-quality managed-care plan:
* Ask your employer's benefits department if its plans make their Heath Plan Employer Date and Information Set (Hedis) scores public, and ask to see them. "You should prefer a plan that's willing to show its Hedis numbers," said Elizabeth McGlynn of the Rand Corporation in Santa Monica, Calif.
* Find out whether a plan is fully accredited by the National Committee for Quality Assurance, and reject plans that have applied for accreditation and failed. Accreditation provides assurance that a plan has a quality-improvement program. Accreditation information for most plans is available on the committee's Web site (www.ncqa.org) or by calling (888) 275-7585.
* Ask if the plan offers a specific program for women's health, has its own medical director for women's health, or has a network of providers that includes a women's health center. Then try to find out if they're more than gimmicks.
"There are certainly some issues of women's health that have been picked up by managed-care organizations purely for advertising purposes, to attract women," said Mark Chassin, chairman of the department of health policy at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City. "But it has been difficult for women to get customized or gender-based advice about important treatment issues such as heart disease, for example, where women have different risk factors from men and need to be managed differently and to consult with specialists who understand those differences."
* Talk to people in the plan. "Word of mouth is probably underestimated as a good indicator of quality," said Donald Berwick, who directs the Institute for Health Care Improvement in Boston.
* Consider the doctors. "The most important aspect of quality in managed care is the provider you choose rather than the plan," said David Blumenthal, director of the Institute for Health Policy at Massachusetts General Hospital and Partners Health System in Boston. Because doctors belong to an average of eight plans, "in most communities right now, most managed-care companies include most doctors in that community, so you can get almost any doctor on any plan," Dr. Blumenthal noted. "The quality variations among plans probably mostly reflect the different doctors."
For many people, the worst aspect of managed care is having to stop seeing a doctor who is not in the plan. So before joining a plan, find out if your doctor participates and, if not, what it will cost if you continue seeing that doctor.
* Ask whether the plan covers prescription drugs. This is especially important for women taking hormone replacement therapy or oral contraceptives
* If you have children, ask if the plan provides baby-sitting or has provisions for combining child and adult visits. LARRY KATZENSTEIN
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)
 
Graph: "Covered by Managed Care"
In 1998, 76 percent of women 65 or younger were insured under a managed care plan, but rates were higher among women with higher incomes.
 
Income of $16,000 or less -- 69%
$16,001 to $35,000 -- 75%
$35,001 to $50,000 -- 78%
More than $50,000 -- 81%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (71%); BAB (BRU) (71%); BA (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); WASHINGTON, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (72%); BOEING CO (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); WASHINGTON, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; WOMEN; MEN; RESEARCH FAMILY (91%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (72%); MENTAL HEALTH (69%); DEPRESSION (64%); 

PERSON: KATZENSTEIN, LARRY TONY NEWTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



242 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 15; Page 1; Column 5; Women's Health 

LENGTH: 2051 words

HEADLINE: A Question of Beauty: Is It Good for You?

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA 

 BODY:
I have an image of perfect health. It's a photograph of a young woman smiling, her teeth white, her hair shining, her skin glowing, her body thin and muscular -- the sort of picture that appears on the cover of magazines like American Health. It's the true me, of course, the me if I did everything right and took an anti-aging pill.
Of course, it's ridiculous. Yet somehow, that loosely defined word "health" and that loaded word "beauty" are so intricately entwined that many of us confuse them, consciously or subconsciously, in our incessant dream of perfect health -- or is it perfect beauty? 
The icons of health and beauty assault me relentlessly. I can't forget my favorite advertisement for breakfast cereal, which showed a bicyclist in the golden light of dawn, or the advertisements for bottled water that featured slim and sweaty athletes downing a drink. Then there are the clothing catalogues that show up, unbidden, in my mailbox, with young models cavorting in sparkling blue surf. The health-and-beauty industry suffuses our society and our economy, luring us to buy food, clothing, cosmetics, exercise equipment, even cars -- the Chevrolet Web site features a young father mounting bikes on top of his minivan; my local BMW dealer displays a folding BMW bicycle as prominently as its autos.
If there is anything to the notion of subliminal messages linking health and beauty, I've clearly been seduced by them. I find it hard to think of health without envisioning someone young and beautiful.
Even the words we use are a sort of double speak. "Health" clubs? At the health club I frequent, few of us are sweating away on the elliptical cross-trainers for our health. Yes, we feel good after a tough workout. But we love the machines because they burn so many calories. I lift weights for muscle definition, not explicitly to make myself healthier.
Most "health foods" have more to do with beauty than health; they tend to be ones that are low in calories, allowing us to eat more. I somehow doubt that most of us who buy them do so because we think that we'll prevent an illness. Disease prevention seems so distant and beauty so immediate. If I take care of myself, I might slightly diminish my risk for heart disease in the future. But I might look better next week.
Yes, of course, there is probably a health benefit to all that dieting and exercising. But there is also an implicit self-righteousness. When the slothful person gets sick, colleagues whisper: "Of course. What can you expect if you don't take care of yourself?"
The idea that health and beauty are linked goes back to Alfred Russell Wallace, who, with Charles Darwin, developed the theory of evolution. Like Darwin, Wallace was puzzled by the observation that male birds tend to be brightly colored, even though their fiery plumage can make it hard to hide from predators. Darwin's idea was that male birds evolved to have brilliant colors because females wanted them that way. Wallace concluded that females chose the more brightly colored males because they were healthier.
Thus an academic endeavor was born. Since the puzzle of the birds was described in the mid-to-late 19th century, it has become almost a sine qua non that what people think is beautiful is in some way correlated with good health.
But is it? Researchers have asked whether animals that are sexually attractive are also healthy, getting mixed results. It appears to be true for some species, not for others. When it comes to humans, the evolutionary biology hypothesis was harder to test. Yet it certainly has a ring of truth.
"If you look at any sign of ill health, it's the opposite of what we consider beautiful," said Nancy Etcoff, a psychologist at the Harvard Medical School and the author of the new book "Survival of the Prettiest: The Science of Beauty" (Doubleday). "There is no culture in which yellow, cracked teeth or thinning hair or broken bones are not considered unattractive or ugly." On the other hand, she added, "Youth and strength, clear skin, shining eyes, thick hair and good teeth are associated with the things we consider beautiful."
Some doctors, who are focusing on health, not beauty, say they nonetheless use a patient's appearance as an indicator of illness.
Dr. Suzanne Fletcher, a professor of ambulatory care and prevention at the Harvard Medical School, said that when she sees a new patient, she guesses the person's age before asking. One sure sign of ill health, Dr. Fletcher said, is looking much older than you are.
"I'm picking up on wrinkled skin and the color of the hair," Dr. Fletcher said. "But it's really a brightness of movement as much as anything else. It's an expression of a face and the eyes, it's their alertness and understanding of what's going on around them. Almost any illness can affect these things, and they also are signals of what we call aging."
But the hypothesis goes only so far. On an individual basis, there is no relationship between the prettiest person and the healthiest, according to S. Michael Kalick, a psychologist at the University of Massachusetts at Boston, who has searched for an association to no avail.
Professor Kalick used data from a study that began in the 1930's in Berkeley and Oakland, Calif. Hundreds of residents agreed to be photographed and to have their health assessed on an annual basis from the ages of 11 to 18. They each had an additional health assessment when they were in their 30's and again between the ages of 58 and 66. In Professor Kalick's study, volunteers looked at photographs of the subjects' faces when they were 17, 17 1/2 and 18 and rated them on how attractive they were. Dr. Kalick and his colleagues knew from the study records how healthy these people were as teen-agers and how healthy they would be later. They could thus determine whether the healthiest people were rated as the most attractive.
It turned out that they were not. Those with the fewest and least severe illnesses were no more attractive than those who always seemed to be sick. And those who had the fewest medical problems when they grew older were not better looking than those plagued with ill health.
"We did not find a relationship," Professor Kalick said. "That was kind of surprising."
But when he asked another group of volunteers to look at the photographs and guess how healthy the study subjects were, the raters assumed that the most attractive people were the healthiest. "People really think that attractiveness indicates health," Professor Kalick said. "It's just that they're mistaken about it."
Elizabeth Haiken, a history professor at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, and author of the recent book "Venus Envy: A History of Cosmetic Surgery" (Johns Hopkins University Press), said her research indicated that the perceived relationship between health and beauty became entrenched early in the 20th century with a popular-psychology movement that said if you felt better about yourself, you would be healthier, stronger, more able to act -- a sort of health-through- self-esteem movement. And what better way to feel good about yourself, or so advertisers proclaimed, than to make yourself as beautiful as you could be?
"These things are all sort of intertwined together," Professor Haiken said.
The ultimate example, of course, is plastic surgery, which began in earnest after World War I, according to Professor Haiken's book, and has now reached a point where new words are being used to describe ordinary body variations. "Bat-wing deformity" is "redundant skin and tissue hanging from the upper arms." "Aging neck deformity" is wrinkled skin on the neck. Others, like "spare-tire deformity" and "violin deformity," also called "'saddlebags," are just what you think they are.
"It brings you face to face with your own boundaries," Professor Haiken said. "I mean, what is a deformity and what is unattractive? Where is the line?
"I was driving through Kentucky and I heard an ad on the radio: 'Are you not satisfied with your life? Do you think things are missing? Do you need a change that is more than skin deep?' " she recalled. "I thought it would be an ad for personal growth." But as she continued to listen, she discovered what it really was: an advertisement for plastic surgery.
"Isn't it funny that in the 20th century, self-improvement has become this sort of physical thing?" she mused.
Cosmetics and skin care came of age along with plastic surgery, and they, too, catered to our desires to improve ourselves, seizing on devices like the ubiquitous makeover promoted by women's magazines.
In her book "Hope in a Jar: The Making of America's Beauty Culture" (Henry Holt), Kathy Peiss, a history professor at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, told how the industry emerged. Companies noticed early on that women took advertising slogans for cosmetics and soaps to heart. A study commissioned by Woodbury Facial Soap in the early 1920's, for example, found that college students "quoted advertising slogans verbatim, 'a skin you love to touch,' a 'schoolgirl complexion' -- when describing and evaluating their own faces," Professor Peiss writes.
Now companies are exploiting the health and beauty image for all it's worth. On Clinique's Web site, you can click on "What's New" and learn about "Superfit Makeup." Lancome suggests on its Web site, "Take a destressing moment with Hydra Zen, Lancome's newest moisturizer." Revlon features "Age-Defying Makeup," crowing: "Don't lie about your age. Defy it." Nexxus tells Web page readers to "Feed your head" with its hair products. Jergens advertises a "daily nourishing cream" with "alpha and beta hydroxy complex."
"You have to come up with new ways of selling stuff," Professor Haiken said. " 'Feed your skin.' That sort of stuff. For a generation that is pretty much obsessed with health, that is what sells."
It's an illusion, of course. And, in particular, the vitamins, minerals and herbs that are suffusing beauty products these days do nothing for the health of the skin, said Dr. Albert M. Kligman, a professor of dermatology at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine in Philadelphia.
"Let's say you have a good cream, so you add a little vitamin A," Dr. Kligman said. "Then you add vitamin B, then you add C and D and E. Now suppose you want to add a little selenium and a little copper, and suppose you want to add an antioxidant. Now we have a cocktail. I know a product that has 67 active ingredients." He worries about the long-term effects of using an untested mix of chemicals on the skin and the lack of regulation of the cosmetics industry.
But most of the added chemicals are useless, Dr. Kligman said. The doses are tiny -- "homeopathic," in many cases -- and the chemicals, when they are used in a cosmetic formulation, are often unstable. Vitamin A, for example, breaks down almost instantly in a cream.
"You make it up, and two days later you have half of what you put in. Two months later, you ain't got nothing," Dr. Kligman said.
Nonetheless, many cosmetics, regardless of vitamins, minerals and herbs, can give that glow of youth. Hair color can make gray disappear. Cosmetic dentistry promises shiny white teeth. Plastic surgery claims to wipe years from your face. And now, with even bifocal contact lenses, maybe we do have a chance to look healthier. (Read "more beautiful.")
Yet, if the evolutionary biology hypothesis has but a germ of truth, and if we have radar for signs of health, are we purposely flying below the radar screen when we take advantage of the plethora of products to make us look youthful and beautiful?
"We've totally confused the radar," Professor Etcoff said. "We're looking younger and younger and healthier and healthier. We're master cheats, I think."
And master dreamers. I know I'm being conned by the advertisements and the images. I refuse on general principle to buy beauty products with added vitamins, minerals or herbs. I laugh at the word "health," mocking it for pretending to be some nirvana of perfect harmony that is always just out of reach. But with health (read "beauty") beckoning, it is hard to escape the illusion that, someday, if I just put in a bit more time and a bit more effort, I might get there.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos (Jeffrey A. Salter/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; BEAUTY; RESEARCH EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); BOTTLED WATER (73%); WEIGHTLIFTING (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); DIETING (71%); COSMETICS (66%); NEW CAR DEALERS (65%); HEART DISEASE (60%); EVOLUTION THEORY (50%); 

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA SUZANNE FLETCHER (68%); ALFRED RUSSELL WALLACE (68%); CHARLES DARWIN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



243 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 15; Page 13; Column 1; Women's Health 

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: Weight Loss the Herbal Way: No All-Natural Silver Bullet

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY GOWER; Timothy Gower is the author of "Staying at the Top of Your Game."

 BODY:
DEB KUNEY was desperate. Through diet and exercise, she had once trimmed 90 pounds from her 260-pound frame. But Ms. Kuney, a Silverdale, Wash., resident, had gradually regained two-thirds of the weight. So she decided to take herbal weight-loss pills, which she bought at a natural-foods store. The pills contained several ingredients, including ma-huang, an ancient Chinese plant better known in this country as ephedra.
Over the next few months, Ms. Kuney, 46, says, the pills helped her lose 25 pounds, though she developed dry mouth and frequent headaches. Still, she kept taking the pills. "I was afraid to get off them," she said, "or else I'd gain the weight back." 
 Although it's hard to say what portion of the $12 billion dietary supplement market is made up of weight-loss aids, Metabolife International, maker of the ephedra-based product Metabolife 356, is projecting sales of $900 million this year. Such herbal diet products are not only easy to obtain, but also have the appeal of natural ingredients, leading many consumers to believe that they are taking milder medicine. But are they? Are all-natural slenderizers, which are not tested in advance by the Food and Drug Administration, safe? And do they work?
Ephedra is probably the most widely used ingredient in herbal products to fight obesity. It is in most formulas promoted as "herbal phen-fen," an allusion to the now-banned phentermine-fenfluramine drug combination once prescribed for weight loss. Ephedra sinica, used in Chinese medicine for more than 5,000 years, contains alkaloids, including ephedrine, which is used in different forms in nasal decongestants and prescription asthma medications.
Scientists have known that ephedrine can act as a diet aid since the 1970's, when Danish doctors noticed that asthmatic patients taking it lost weight. Ephedrine, which is structurally similar to the drugs known as amphetamines, increases metabolism, which causes a person at rest to burn more calories. Ephedrine also appears to suppress appetite.
Dr. Steven Heymsfield, an obesity specialist at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in New York, has tested ephedra on several groups of overweight patients who were also instructed to eat a low-calorie diet. "It definitely works," he said. In Dr. Heymsfield's research, patients who took enough ephedra to consume the equivalent of 100 milligrams of ephedrine alkaloid every day for two months lost a pound or two a week. No one taking the prescribed amounts in his study became seriously ill, though reports of unpleasant side effects were common, including headaches, heart palpitations, dry mouth and insomnia.
The problem, explained Bill J. Gurley, a pharmacologist at the University of Arkansas in Little Rock, is that some ephedra users develop a tolerance to small doses and require more pills to control their appetites. "The more you take," he said, "the greater your chances of developing some type of adverse side effect," since ephedrine increases blood pressure and heart rate. The F.D.A. lists more than 1,000 people who fell ill after using ephedra; the reports included heart attacks, seizures, strokes and at least 35 deaths.
DR. GURLEY said most ephedra users who become ill can blame "their own stupidity, for going well over the recommendations on labels." But he and his colleagues have tested the potency of a dozen ephedra products and found that the amount of active ingredient in some brands varied by as much as 130 percent. Most contained less ephedrine than the labels claimed, but Dr. Gurley is still troubled.
"As a consumer and a pharmaceutical scientist, it was an eye-opening experience," he said. "You can't trust what's on the label."
Although the F.D.A. says only that ephedra may be linked to the reports of adverse events it has compiled, it wants to restrict the herb's use. Agency officials have proposed a law requiring ephedra products to bear labels warning consumers to take no more than 24 milligrams of ephedrine alkaloids a day, for no more than a week.
The dietary supplements industry has opposed the F.D.A. proposal. But even supplement manufacturers concede that certain people should not use ephedra, or should speak with a doctor first. They include pregnant women, anyone with a history of high blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes or prostate problems, and those taking the antidepressants known as MAO (monoamine oxidase) inhibitors.
Dr. Heymsfield recommends starting with a daily dose of no more than 24 milligrams of ephedrine, the amount in two Metabolife pills. Blood pressure should be checked before increasing the dose, he said, adding that it's unwise to take ephedra for more than three or four months.
Some supplement sellers have begun promoting "ephedra-free" weight-loss products. One common substitute is garcinia cambogia extract, derived from a citrus fruit grown in Southeast Asia. Also known as hydroxycitric acid, or HCA, it is frequently identified as "Citrimax" on labels.
Studies on rats and dogs have shown that HCA can block an enzyme necessary to form fat in the body. But when Dr. Heymsfield gave a daily dose of 1,500 milligrams of HCA to 66 overweight men and women for three months, "we found absolutely nothing," he said.
Another widely available weight-loss nostrum, 5-hydroxy-L-tryptophan, stirred debate last year. Better known as 5-HTP, this naturally occurring amino acid is chemically similar to L-tryptophan, a compound found in some foods and produced by the body. Both are precursors of serotonin, a neurotransmitter involved in mood regulation and appetite. A 1992 Italian study involving 20 obese women found that 900 milligrams a day of 5-HTP helped reduce food cravings, especially for carbohydrates. The women cut their calorie intake by nearly a third.
Sales of dietary supplements containing L-tryptophan, often used to treat insomnia, were prohibited in the United States after a 1989 outbreak of eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome, or E.M.S., a potentially fatal disease of the immune system. According to the F.D.A., approximately 1,500 cases of E.M.S., including 38 deaths, were linked to L-tryptophan tainted with toxic chemicals that were byproducts of processing.
Last fall, researchers at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., reported in the journal Nature Medicine that they had tested eight batches of 5-HTP and detected in each impurities similar to those in L-tryptophan. Stephen Naylor, an analytical chemist and a co-author of the study, conceded that some products contained only small amounts of the deadly contaminants, but added, "The issue is not how much is there, it's the fact that it's present."
After six months on ephedra pills, Deb Kuney was fed up with the side effects and worried that the supplement might damage her heart. She threw out the pills and returned to Tops, or Take Off Pounds Sensibly, a support group she had joined when she first tried to lose weight. "I feel great," she said. Ms. Kuney now weighs 200 pounds, but would like to get back to 170. She also started working for Tops, which has a nationwide network. The organization encourages its members to lose weight the old-fashioned way: through diet and exercise. A recent survey by the National Weight-Loss Registry suggests that Tops may be on to something: of 800 Americans who have kept off 30 pounds or more for at least one year, just 4 percent have used some form of diet pill.
 
Regular Folks' Food Can Actually Be Healthful
MEDICAL authorities are forever scolding Americans for their wicked ways at the dinner table. A growing body of scientific evidence, however, argues that some staples of the American diet -- regular-guy grub usually chosen for economy and convenience -- can enhance your health, too. Consider these nutritional overachievers:
* Ketchup: The condiment of choice for fast-food diners is rich in lycopene, a powerful antioxidant that fights the degenerative effects of free radicals, highly reactive molecules that are byproducts of metabolism. Raw tomatoes contain lycopene, too, but cooking them makes it easier to absorb. Tomato sauce and tomato juice are also loaded with the compound. According to the Journal of the National Cancer Institute, people who eat a lot of tomato-based foods can reduce their risk of developing cancer by 40 percent. And a 1996 study at the University of Kentucky in Lexington involving 88 elderly nuns found that those who had the highest blood levels of the antioxidant required the least living assistance.
* Beans: Lowly beans are often ridiculed for the gastrointestinal chaos they can cause. But diet experts praise them. "All beans are nutritional powerhouses," proclaimed a recent article in Nutrition Action Healthletter.
The article noted that a half cup of cooked and drained kidney beans provides 30 percent of the daily value recommended for folate, or folic acid, and 25 percent for fiber. Folate helps prevent certain types of birth defects and may reduce heart disease.
* Peanut Butter: Heart-friendly olive oil may be the cornerstone of the famously healthful Mediterranean diet, but an equally rich source of monounsaturated fatty acids can be found in virtually every American home.
In addition to these cholesterol-lowering acids, peanut butter is rich in folate and vitamin E, both good for cardiovascular health. A study at Loma Linda University in California, involving 31,000 Seventh-day Adventists, determined that people who eat peanuts and other nuts five times a week cut their heart disease risk in half.
 TIMOTHY GOWER 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION METABOLIFE INTERNATIONAL (69%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: WEIGHT; EPHEDRA (HERB); EPHEDRINE (CHEMICAL); LABELING AND LABELS; DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS AND HERBAL REMEDIES NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (92%); DIETING (91%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (90%); BOTANICAL SUPPLEMENTS (90%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (90%); HERBAL MEDICINE (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); OBESITY (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (77%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (72%); PHARMACOLOGY (70%); SALES PROJECTIONS (67%); ASTHMA (63%); 

PERSON: GOWER, TIMOTHY DEB KUNEY (74%); BILL J GURLEY (70%); STEVEN HEYMSFIELD (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



244 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 31; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Bordering on an Obsession

BYLINE: By DAVID MARGOLICK; DAVID MARGOLICK is a contributing editor at Vanity Fair.

 BODY:
SOMETIMES it is no more than a bump in the road. Sometimes it's a bureaucratic labyrinth or a cash cow for impoverished economies. Sometimes -- although increasingly rarely in the post-Cold War era -- it is a physical, psychological and geopolitical chasm, still worthy of the wonderfully exotic term "frontier." I'm talking about one of the unsung but, at least to me, most exciting parts of travel: borders. Countries and states are wonderful. But so are the places in between.
Something in me loves a wall, or a "welcome to" sign, or a checkpoint, or a striped railing that lifts up and down. I like the sense of anticipation that I am about to enter a different realm. I like the changes in the road signs and the feeling of knowing precisely where I am on a map: in that cartographic no man's land, that peculiar line of dots and dashes between blobs of white. 
 Crossing state lines is fun, though it often consists of little more than a billboard greeting from the latest governor and, the pleasantries dispensed with, another sign a few yards down the road informing you of the cost of littering, the perils of carrying an unlicensed handgun, or the revised speed limit. I particularly enjoy the slight jolt you feel from the different amalgam of asphalt under the wheels of your car.
Sometimes the blacktop carries economic and political lessons. Cross from New Mexico to Arizona, for instance, and you go from bumpy to smooth, from relatively poor to rich, from Democratic to Republican.
Even that inexplicable soupcon of southern Connecticut that is sandwiched between chunks of New York on Interstate 684 -- too tiny for either Governor Rowland to welcome me or Governor Pataki to welcome me back -- is a treat. (And imagine all the interesting legal problems that slice created.)
To be sure, international frontiers are the best. As epic an experience as it must be, few people nowadays get to cross them on foot, as did Jean Gabin and Marcel Dalio in the famous scene at the end of the 1937 film "Grand Illusion." But at a minimum, they must be negotiated by car or train, for the magic of borders vanishes entirely at 35,000 feet. Air space may have architectural or military significance, but flying over frontiers is a non-event.
And as for landings, airports, with their multilingual signage and multinational advertising, are utterly and sadly indistinguishable, harbingers of the global homogenization about to overtake us.
But on terra firma, one can look forward to the guardhouses, the elaborate passport controls, the shabby offices with their self-important officials strutting around in their 1950's uniforms, the sudden sound of new and alien tongues. On trains, I like those interminable stops, particularly at night, when one imagines some international intrigue or high-level negotiations or cross-cultural card games proceeding over glasses of beer, then a conductor sliding open the door to your compartment and brusquely shouting "Passport!" in the latest language.
Some border crossings remain particularly vivid. During a year in Italy, I entered the country from every direction -- from France, from Austria, from the old Yugoslavia -- but no matter where the point of origin, the clouds inevitably seemed to break and the sun began to shine. Even the buildings changed colors, from austere whites to friendlier shades of yellow and red.
Then there was the experience of crossing the border between East and West Germany (in my case, in the late 1970's), which made one feel like a character out of John le Carre, or perhaps like Rudolf Abel or Anatoly Shcharansky. "Grenzgebiet," the sign would say: Border area, and you'd feel a surge of tension. The Cold War, mostly an abstraction from childhood, came alive, as ominous-looking German shepherds, descendants perhaps of dogs with even harsher guard duty, sniffed up and down the length of the train. Finally the train would lurch forward, and you'd lurch backward 50 years.
My most memorable crossing in that part of the world was about a dozen years ago between Hungary and Romania. Those were still the days of the Warsaw Pact, the Eastern bloc, when most Americans considered the Soviet satellites to be Communist peas in a pod. But my father and I still felt we were hurtling into the unknown; it was, after all, Ceausescu's Romania we were entering, or trying to enter, since we didn't have any visas for this spur-of-the-moment detour from our itinerary.
THE trip was improvised, so I hadn't purged my bags of objectionable reading materials, including something that was particularly subversive because it was so apt: Kafka. What would the dreaded Securitate make of that?
Sure enough, the border guard pored over my books and periodicals. What caught his eye, however, wasn't "The Trial" but The New York Times Magazine, and his interest was more prurient than political: he was transfixed by the lingerie advertisements.
He then let us through, into a land where people gathered sticks for heat, the street lights had all been turned off, the shelves in the stores were barren and our Hungarian Lada looked positively luxurious to the curious crowds that gathered around it.
That world is now gone, but the intrigue remains. Not long ago, my family had the occasion to cross as tourists from Latvia to Lithuania and back again. One would think that these two countries, newly and simultaneously liberated from a common oppressor and free to devise border regulations from scratch, would offer a streamlined procedure.
In fact, it was just the opposite: denied their sovereignty for half a century, they were now flaunting it for all to see. Take one part national pride, add the usual bureaucratic lethargy and arrogance, and you wind up with an endless line of inert cars and trucks.
It took hours. And I had a blast.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Edward Briant)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES GLOBALIZATION (78%); COLD WAR (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (76%); SPEED LIMITS (73%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); MULTILINGUALISM (60%); 

PERSON: MARGOLICK, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



245 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 15; Page 4; Column 1; Women's Health 

LENGTH: 2280 words

HEADLINE: Doctors Are Second-Guessing the 'Miracle' of Multiple Births

BYLINE: By ANNE ADAMS LANG; Anne Adams Lang is a freelancer who writes about political and health care issues.

 BODY:
ALWAYS enthralled by record-shattering events, Americans were mesmerized by the birth of septuplets in 1997 and octuplets the following year. Each tiny infant's struggle from birth canal to home crib was reported and broadcast in detail, and the nation's heart swelled with empathy for the parents.
At the same time, such extraordinary numbers of simultaneous siblings provoked fits of hand-wringing and soul-searching. What has science wrought? The Iowa Seven, the Texas Eight and thousands of smaller sets of multiples are arriving, overwhelmingly through assisted reproductive technologies. And while the number of such births is still small, the incidence has quadrupled since the mid-1980's. Yet there is no illusion about the risks high-order multiples (three or more infants) and their families face. 
"These situations get sensationalized in the media as this great thing when, in fact, it's a medical disaster," said Dr. James Grifo, the head of New York University Medical Center's division of reproductive endocrinology.
The reality of high-order multiples can be brutal. They are inevitably premature, a condition that brings with it increased probabilities of lung and intestinal infection and bleeding in the brain. The mortality rate rockets from less than 1 in 1,000 live births for singletons to 50 to 100 in 1,000 for triplets, according to Dr. William Walsh, a neonatology specialist at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville.
For the survivors of multiple gestations, the long-term outlook is often darkened by cerebral palsy and developmental, learning and physical disabilities.
Prof. George Annas, the chairman of the health law department at Boston University, is blunt. "High-order multiples ought to be avoided," he said. "It's a preventable catastrophe."
There is agreement within the medical community and even among parents of "supertwins" (triplets and more) that high-order multiples are an unintended, and perhaps unfortunate, consequence of infertility treatments. That consensus shatters when it comes to the "shoulds" and "how-to's" of limiting the incidence of triplets, quads, quints and more. Ethics, emotion and money further cloud the already murky waters of assisted reproduction.
Specialists have at hand techniques to sidestep multifetal gestations, and many use them. But they are not obligated by law or practice standards to do so. Drugs that stimulate the ovaries to produce many eggs at once are readily available through any willing doctor with a prescription pad. Fertility clinics, under competitive pressure to show robust take-home baby rates, have an economic incentive to gamble on multiples.
THEN there are the patients, who suffer from what the New York State Task Force on Life and the Law calls the "disease" of infertility. They have tried, over time, to make a baby and cannot. Assisted reproductive technologies are their last hope for biological offspring. It is an expensive, usually uninsured, long shot -- $11,000 and up for a single cycle of in vitro fertilization; an estimated $2,000 a month or so just for ovary-stimulating drugs and the sonograms to monitor the process.
"We have thousands and thousands of people who, after years of heartbreaking disappointment, are finally given the opportunity to have a child, one child," said Janet Bleyl, the mother of triplets who founded The Triplet Connection, an organization in Stockton, Calif., for parents of high-order multiples. "Most who have more than one aren't trying to reach for the jackpot, but they're willing to take that very small chance of triplets and quads."
It took Marianne Jornlin and her husband, Kris, four frustrating years before entering the portals of high-tech reproduction. The couple, both software engineers, borrowed half of the $12,000 it cost for a single I.V.F. cycle from Kris's parents and came home with quadruplets, now 19 months old.
"Everything depended on that one cycle," whispered Mrs. Jornlin, who is a fulltime mother tending three daughters and one son in their small Roseville, Calif., home. "The doctors gave me a 30 percent chance of a live birth. Where are you going to get the money for another cycle?"
Without insurance to defray costs, the Jornlins maximized the odds of succeeding in one try. Four of five healthy embryos were transferred into Mrs. Jornlin's womb. "We were gung-ho to do all five," she said. "The doctor had to restrain us."
Like virtually all parents who longed for and, at last, have children, Mrs. Jornlin considers herself and her husband "incredibly blessed." Still, she admitted, "I think now, going through all of this, if insurance had covered it, it would've been better to transfer two."
Riding the edge of their personal limits, infertility patients push their doctors, who often find it hard to push back. "A day doesn't go by when patients, because of a long history of unsuccessful cycles, make choices that under different circumstances they might not make," said Dr. Robert Stillman, the medical director of Shady Grove Fertility Centers, based in Rockville, Md. "Doctors find it difficult to be in an adversarial role when patients are making an informed choice."
But what constitutes informed choice is open to interpretation. "You do your level best to make sure that people understand -- not that you've merely exposed the risk, but that they really understand what the risks are," said Richard Zaner, a bioethics professor at Vanderbilt University.
Not an easy proposition. Sharon Covington, the director of psychological support services at Shady Grove, said that even with dedicated counseling, patients "are so overwhelmed with the whole process, they don't always hear." Nevertheless, getting the information across is crucial because the world of multiples is loaded with land mines that can detonate with the earliest decisions.
"A woman was not designed to have seven or eight children at one time," said Dr. Zev Rosenwaks, the director of the New York Center for Reproductive Medicine and Infertility at New York Presbyterian Hospital. "We are all very concerned that we practice medicine that does the least harm."
BUT what does that entail? If, in the early stages of a much-desired pregnancy, sonograms reveal four, five or six fetuses, couples could engage in "selective reduction." It is a morally and psychologically fraught option that involves eliminating one or more fetuses in an effort to give the remaining ones a better outcome. It can also imperil the whole pregnancy.
"Selective reduction is a heart-wrenching decision that any couple facing multiples has to make," said Maureen Doolan Boyle, the founder of Mothers of Supertwins, an association based in Brentwood, N.Y., that has worked with more than 15,000 high-order multiple families over the last 11 years. "Some physicians think of this as 'we can fix this.' You can't."
Reproductive medicine is making strides that can minimize the need to face such dilemmas in the first place. Dr. Rosenwaks said doctors can tailor ovarian hyperstimulation to individual patients, factoring in body mass, age and previous response to control the amount of fertility drug given.
The idea is to chemically prod the ovaries to produce a larger number of follicles in which eggs develop. Not all follicles will produce eggs, nor will all eggs be fertilized. But the goal is to get several in the hopes that, after insemination, one egg will go on to become an embryo.
Of course, that opens the sluice gates to multiples, because no one can predict just how many eggs will become fertilized once sperm have been introduced. That uncontrollable factor is what led to the McCaughey septuplets in Iowa in 1997 and the Chukwu octuplets in Texas last year.
The medical response to a superabundance of follicles is to cancel the last, critical hormone injection, or convert to an in vitro process, in which eggs are harvested and fertilized outside the body, and a limited number are transferred to the womb.
Dr. Rosenwaks and other fertility experts say they voluntarily follow these guidelines for embryo transfer: in women under 35, no more than three embryos, unless they are of poor quality; from ages 35 to 39, four embryos; over age 40, five.
The problem lies in persuading prospective parents to switch to I.V.F. when they have made profound emotional, sometimes religious, commitments to not limiting their number of children. And there's the massive difference in the cost.
Doctors have expressed widespread optimism that blastocyst transfer, a relatively new technique to grow embryos for five days instead of three before transferring them to the uterus, will mean high pregnancy rates without the risk of multiples.
"It's a matter of letting the embryos sort themselves out in a Darwinian way," Dr. Stillman said. "The strongest will survive. Healthier embryos are more likely to implant, so you need to transfer fewer" to enhance the chances of a pregnancy and a live birth.
BLASTOCYSTS are a step in the right direction, said Dr. John Elliott, the director of maternal and fetal medicine at the Good Samaritan Medical Center in Phoenix. But until reproductive medicine reduces multiple gestations, Dr. Elliott, known among multiples cognoscenti as "The Quad God," remains the prophet of aggressive measures to reduce their premature birth. (Medically, a full-term pregnancy is calculated as 40 weeks, measured from the first day of the mother's last menstrual period.)
"If you can get beyond 30 weeks, and we do that with about 80 percent of quads, the catastrophic outcomes tend to get less," he said. "We don't pull punches, and there is the possibility there will be four very damaged babies. But it's highly unlikely."
Delivery at 24 weeks is a "disaster," Dr. Elliott said, noting that the survival rate then is only 50 percent to 60 percent, and that the risk of handicap is as high as 70 percent. At 26 weeks, the survival rate jumps to more than 95 percent, while the probability of handicap drops to about 40 percent. The handicap risk continues to fall to 25 percent at 28 weeks, 15 percent at 30 weeks, and 3 percent at 32 weeks.
The average gestational age of quads in Dr. Elliott's clinic is 32 weeks and five days, three weeks more than in any other clinic, he said. The result: among the 42 sets of quads delivered over the last 12 years, Dr. Elliot said, six babies died, and two had mild cerebral palsy but no other long-term handicaps. "We've had enough now that it's not a fluke," he said. "We get patients further, so there's less risk."
Mrs. Bleyl, of the Triplet Connection, is heartened by such progress. But it's not enough to know the medical facts. Parents, she said, need to understand the "significantly greater stress of having more babies needing you at the same time."
MOST parents don't expect help, she said. That is just as well, because they seldom get any. The list of corporations that once gave deep discounts or even free products has dwindled as three and four same-age siblings become more commonplace. Family members tire, and religious groups don't come through the way they once did.
Sharon Swick and her husband, Tom, a mid-level manager at Sprint, have nine children: an 18-year-old daughter, a 15-year-old son, 14-year-old triplets and 10-year-old quads. "I had all my kids in the dark ages, no in vitro, just shots," Mrs. Swick explained. "We were not choosing to implant how many."
Mrs. Swick, who is 41, enjoys motherhood, but said the economics are tricky. The family lives in a four-bedroom house in Lee's Summit, Mo. The five boys share one room, three of four girls another. Mrs. Swick has become a thrift-store expert, and has taught her family to ignore famous labels and brand names. The children have been to the movies twice, because rentals are a fraction of the cost.
Desserts are rare because they are too expensive, and even bananas are a luxury. "We shop in generic brand stores," Mrs. Swick said, "and get stuff a lot cheaper."
They stopped funneling money into Mr. Swick's 401(k) because, she said, "now it's more important to put it in the kids -- music lessons and sports." As for college, financing that is the children's responsibility.
Like the Swicks, Nina and Joe Priore, the parents of 3-year-old quads and a 5-year-old singleton, in Babylon, N.Y., are taking life with multiples one day at a time. Mrs. Priore, 39, worries about food. "I just went through 14 chicken legs, two boxes of rice and 10 ears of corn," she said, describing one meal.
She's lucky to have avoided the marital fracturing that frequently afflicts parents of multiples, she said. "A lot of men can't handle coming home to a messy house, to a wife who hasn't taken a shower that day and money problems on top of that," she said. "Joe tells fathers-to-be they've got to pitch in and change diapers."
Mr. Priore, 33, an accounts payable manager at Entenmanns bakery, noted, "If you don't help out and your wife gets all run down, if she gets sick, you wind up doing it all by yourself."
A Mothers of Supertwins board member, Mrs. Priore counsels expectant parents about getting formula, access to Federal nutrition programs and Social Security.
Marianne Jornlin advises other families about coping with the $400-a-month formula bill, the logistics of going to the store, unimaginable sleep deprivation, the secrets of equipment trading and the "unbelievable miracle" of multiples. But knowing what the children and their families have to go through, Mrs. Jornlin is clear. "If my kids were the last generation of high-order multiples, it'd be a good thing," she said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marianne Jornlin of Roseville, Calif., with her quadruplets, who are now 19 months old. From left: Emma, John, Rebecca and Sara. (Don Preisler for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (54%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (54%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MULTIPLE BIRTHS; INFERTILITY; IN VITRO FERTILIZATION TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (92%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (90%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (89%); PEDIATRICS (78%); CEREBRAL PALSY (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); FAMILY (77%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (76%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (66%); DISABLED PERSONS (64%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (63%); ETHICS (63%); 

PERSON: LANG, ANNE ADAMS WILLIAM ERNEST 'BILL' WALSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



246 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 6; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2793 words

HEADLINE: FRUGAL TRAVELER;
In the Cook Islands, Ukuleles and Hymns

BYLINE: By DAISANN McLANE 

 BODY:
THE flight from Auckland, New Zealand, to Rarotonga, Cook Islands, is a short hop, only three hours and one time zone. But it's a journey as discombobulating as any undertaken by Alice in Wonderland. I departed for the Cooks on a Tuesday afternoon in March and I arrived on Monday evening.
No, I didn't eat the wrong half of the mushroom -- the 15 tiny islands in the Cook group lie just a shade east of the international date line. 
 Nearby islands to the west of the line are promoting themselves as the first places that will greet the dawn in 2000. The Cooks, meanwhile, by the quirk of a geographer's pen, will be one of the last places to say goodbye to the 20th century.
The singularity of Cook Islands time hadn't occurred to me when I was planning my circumnavigation of the globe last winter -- I was just looking for a spot to touch down on in the Pacific Ocean on my way to California. I only discovered the day change during a series of Monday-morning telephone calls from Auckland to the Cooks, trying to book a guesthouse. Phones rang and rang, and no one answered. Finally the New Zealand operator clued me in: "You know, it's Sunday morning in the Cooks."
Now descending over Rarotonga, as the last dark red traces of the sun faded, spectacularly, to deep blue at the horizon, I was metaphorically tickled -- what better spot to finish a trip that had taken me 10,000 miles across deserts, oceans and steamy tropics than here in the South Pacific, at the end of the global day?
At Rarotonga International Airport -- Rarotonga, the largest of the Cooks, is the main entry point to the islands and can handle commercial jetliners -- I walked across the tarmac to the terminal and waited on the immigration line in the thick night air. A band dressed in flowered shirts and straw hats played ukuleles. I scrutinized my immigration form, which looked more like a tourist brochure than a government document and boasted ads and discount coupons for local businesses. "Kia Orana . . . The Cook Islands is a special place with a special people and a special magic" said the welcoming message from the Prime Minister, the Hon. Sir Geoffrey Henry, pictured wearing a tropical print shirt and a garland of blossoms (which here are called eis).
I knew that the Cook Islands had recently fallen on hard times. Tied economically and politically in a federation with New Zealand, the islands were suffering from the prevailing slump in the area, according to the latest State Department report. There are more Cook Islanders living in New Zealand than on the islands themselves these days. I've found that when tourism is the mainstay of a small place, it can make for an unpleasant travel experience -- and an overpriced one. As I elbowed my way through crowds of New Zealanders on package vacations at the baggage ramp, I feared that that might be the case in the Cooks.
I didn't have much time to worry. As soon as I'd collected my baggage, a genial woman in a long flowered dress approached me with a clipboard and steered me to a large muscular gentleman in a sarong who had the shoulders of an Olympic rower -- my airport transfer. Pa drove his van slowly on Rarotonga's main road, which runs for 25 miles along the perimeter of the circular island. He slowed whenever we passed a notable sight -- like, for instance, the post office. At 8:30, nearly everything appeared shut down for the night. After about 20 minutes, we arrived at the Aroko Bungalows; it, too, was dead to the world. "They left the key in the door for you," Pa said. "Just check in tomorrow."
He drove away, and I was alone in a tidy little cottage that had two beds, a double and a single, covered with bright tie-dyed sheets. To my delight and surprise, there was a kitchenette with a full-sized refrigerator, pots and pans, and a little gas stove. Sliding glass doors opened onto a wooden deck. I congratulated myself on my luck, for I'd chosen the Aroko by default -- it was the only guesthouse that had picked up its phone on Sunday. At $45 a night it suited me just fine. I headed down the road with a flashlight to the grocery that Pa had told me was nearby, and bought a few dollars' worth of breakfast and snack supplies.
About five minutes after I returned, the sky cracked open. It rained all night, the torrent of the tropics that I find one of the most soothing sounds in the world. I snuggled into bed, opened the book I'd brought along -- James Michener's "Tales of the South Pacific" -- and read and reread his opening sentences: "I wish I could tell you about the South Pacific . . . The endless ocean. The infinite specks of coral we called islands." The rain continued pounding on the roof and soon I fell fast asleep.
March is the tail end of the South Pacific hurricane season. It rained on and off during the four days I spent on Rarotonga, and the wind stirred the island's lagoon into a froth of waves. The rain came in bursts, followed by stretches of dazzling, hot sunshine -- not unpleasant at all, but very bad weather for the snorkeling I'd anticipated doing every day (and for which I'd lugged my own equipment all around the world).
But after a while I got into the island's easy languor and forgot about snorkeling. I rented a bicycle ($5) and rode around the Circle Road, stopping to admire goats and gorgeous dark green fields of taro plants. I sat on my deck and looked out for hours at the two motus, or reef islands, that were a hundred yards out in the lagoon, and then put on my rubber shoes and waded out to them, in knee-deep water filled with thousands of beches de mer, or giant sea slugs -- odd how much better that sounds in French. There, for the first time in my life, I was alone on my "own" island.
WHERE were the package vacationers? They'd disappeared into half a dozen all-inclusive hotels that specialized in groups, and I saw very little of them on my bike or at the modest family-run Aroko, which had only one other cottage filled during my stay. It was only when I'd go out to eat that I'd bump into vacationers and honeymooners. As it turned out, the most touristy drawback of Rarotonga was its restaurant scene; eating options on the island were limited, expensive and not very interesting.
One night I had some fish in puff pastry rolled around a filling of minced taro leaves at the Flame Tree, reputedly the best restaurant on the island. It was good, but not rave-worthy, and cost me $28 with wine. I got in the habit of eating a hearty, simple lunch -- grilled fish, rice and vegetables with a beer came to $12 at Trader Jack's, a lively indoor-outdoor bar and grill on the harbor. For supper, I skipped the pricey places and instead ate cheese, snacks and tropical fruit from my larder. I wished I'd brought a picnic cooler filled with goodies bought in New Zealand. Self-catering, here, is the way to go.
The days floated by. I made friends with Papa, the Aroko's gardener, and soon a fresh bag of bananas was hanging on my doorknob every morning. Occasionally, I'd get restless, on my deck in the soft evening light, and feel the compulsion to plan an activity. I actually did sign up for the Cultural Village tour -- a program designed to orient the visitor to the ways of the Cook Island Maoris. After three hours in close encounter with 60 camera-wielding visitors and a troupe of grass-skirted dancers, I decided I'd "done" enough. After all, what's the point of trying to get a jump on things when you're hours behind the rest of the world before you even get up in the morning?
I returned to Michener, and to exploring on my bike. I happened upon the sandy cove where, according to a plaque, in 1350 seven canoes filled with Cook Islands Maoris set out from Rarotonga for New Zealand by sea. Amazingly, these intrepid explorers made it, and today many New Zealand Maoris can trace their heritage back to an ancestor in one of those seven canoes.
One morning I went into Avarua, the overgrown village that is Rarotonga's main town, and bought a round-trip plane ticket and three-night hotel package with transfers included ($214) for Aitutaki island, some 150 miles away. I boarded the 10-seater twin-prop Air Rarotonga plane with trepidation -- it was so tiny you had to bend down when you walked in the aisle. And once we'd passed out of visual range of Rarotonga, the Pacific Ocean seemed one enormous, empty and foreboding stretch of blue -- Michener's "endless ocean." But then, after about an hour, a gentle turquoise triangle -- Aitutaki's celebrated lagoon -- appeared below.
Motus fringed the perimeter, and in the middle of the lagoon rose a green islet shaped like a hook. We landed on this little speck, on a runway that, surprisingly, was large enough for a 747, built by G.I.'s in World War II.
Sleepy Aitutaki makes Rarotonga look like Manhattan. It boasts one semi-luxury resort, two smaller hotels and a handful of family-run guesthouses. Within hours, it seems, you have met everyone on the place.
The manager of my hotel, the Maina Sunset, came to pick me up at the airport. He was accompanied by an American fellow named Alex who had stopped for a day or two and ended up spending two weeks.
After the peaceful Aroko, I wasn't ready for the Maina Sunset -- it was built motel-style, and all the rooms opened on a courtyard dominated by a large swimming pool. The courtyard was busy, noisy and social, and I began to fret that I'd made a bad move.
AND then I went to Island Night at Ralphie's Bar and Grill, and wished I'd come days earlier. Island Night is Cook-speak for a tourist folkloric show, plus native buffet. But on Aitutaki, Island Night at Ralphie's is the biggest thing happening on Friday night for locals, too, and the place was packed.
The dancing and music, performed by a troupe of more than 20 Aitutakians, start gently, build in intensity and then open, suddenly, in a cloudburst of thundering drums and energetic hip shaking. The Christian missionaries from London who converted the Cook Maoris in the 1800's complained bitterly about the islanders' "sinful" music and dance, and tried to ban it -- fortunately, they didn't succeed. Like West Indians at a carnival ball, the Aitutakians at Ralphie's Bar know how to throw a world-class party.
The next day things got even better. I'd booked a daylong lagoon cruise ($35, but it included snorkeling equipment and a huge lunch spread of fish and vegetables prepared on board), and the weather was perfect, the lagoon utterly smooth. Jumping off the boat into the warm water, I lost myself in a cloud of tiger fish and swirled for an hour through coral gardens with huge, long-limbed starfish. The boat stopped to allow us the option of a short walk into the jungle thicket of an uninhabited motu. Then we headed off to One Foot Island, a motu shaped like a footprint with a perfect swath of pink sand, for a swim to the reef. The versatile boat crew caught a giant octopus. Then they started to sing and play ukuleles.
I was growing fond of ukuleles.
On Sunday morning the slow, easy life of Aitutaki gets even slower; most of the islanders are Christian, and everyone goes to church.
And so did I, ignoring the protests of the party gang back at the Maina Sunset, who'd arranged a boat for another lagoon cruise that day. And I am glad I did, for if I'd gone along with them I would have missed Aitutaki's greatest treasure: its hymn singing.
I could hear the rise and fall of the voices as I approached the Aitutaki Christian Church on foot, my umbrella unfurled against the hot sun. When missionaries came in the 1800's, they taught their converts the English hymns of the day. The Maoris melded the words to their own style of singing, the singing that had lifted their spirits for centuries as they headed into dark, unknown waters in fragile canoes. Familiar to my ears, and yet laced with odd intervals and sudden modal changes, the music ringing the church's rafters was swooping, glorious, like a choral arrangement of a Stravinsky symphony. I'd never heard anything quite like this before, and my mouth dropped open in wonder.
To my relief, nobody noticed; the church ladies in their fancy straw hats and the men in their Sunday suits sang on, heedless of my awe. It was just another Sunday service for them. But tomorrow I would board a plane, and then another and another, leaping ahead across times zones, completing a circle I'd begun two months before. These hymns were my journey's farewell; I couldn't imagine a better one.
 
The bottom line at the end of the global day
I averaged $82.60 a day during my eight nights and seven days in the Cook Islands. This amount includes lodging, meals, activities, cruises and round-trip air fare from Rarotonga to Aitutaki.
My flight from Auckland, New Zealand, to Rarotonga was part of a round-the-world ticket that I had bought from Air Brokers for $2,695.
 
Lodging
The homey, family-run Aroko Bungalows, Post Office Box 850, Rarotonga, Cook Islands, telephone (682) 23625, (682) 21625, fax (682) 24625, is one of the most pleasant budget places to stay on Rarotonga. My cottage, on a little waterfront piece of land that overlooks the lagoon and two coral islands, cost $45 a day.
The Maina Sunset Hotel, Post Office Box 34, Aitutaki, Cook Islands, telephone (682) 31511, fax (682) 31611, had large, new bright rooms that were comfortable and clean, with refrigerators. (A single cost $28, with my tour package.) But it was noisy at all hours and its restaurant was open only for a breakfast buffet ($5), and the nearest restaurants were too far to walk to in the evening.
If I revisit Aitutaki, I might try one of two budget alternatives. Tom's Beach Cottage, (682) 31051, fax (682) 31409, which has shared-bathroom rooms, is not as big or snazzy as Maina's, at around $14 a night, and one private cottage for $46 a night for two people. Other travelers gave good feedback about Rino's Apartments, (682) 31197, which has rooms with separate bathrooms and is similar in quality and price to Maina. Both are on the waterfront, within half a mile's walk of Ralphie's.
All accommodations on Aitutaki can be booked as part of a package with air fare and transfers through Island Hoppers Vacations in Rarotonga, Post Office Box 240, (682) 22576, fax (682) 22036. Because the agency gets special rates from Air Rarotonga, it's cheaper to buy the Island Hoppers package than to buy everything separately.
 
Food
Rarotonga's restaurants, geared to foreign tourists, serve up fare that's acceptable but somewhat overpriced and mediocre. Stick to the simplest dishes of grilled fish and vegetables (around $10 to $12) at popular spots like Trader Jack's restaurant on the waterfront in Avarua, (682) 26464, and the Flame Tree, (682) 25123, in the village of Muri, a 10-minute drive from town, a pleasant but expensive Continental restaurant. Dinner there runs around $28 with a glass of wine.
I had better -- and cheaper -- meals on Aitutaki, where the chefs specialize in Maori-style home cooking. Both Ralphie's Bar and Grill, (682) 31428, and the Crusher Bar, (682) 31283, served delicious plates of coconut-stewed or grilled fresh fish and other traditional fare. The Friday night all-you-can-eat buffet at Ralphie's cost around $14 with a glass of wine; prices at Crusher are comparable.
 
Activities
On Rarotonga I rented a trail bike for $4.50 a day from Polynesian Bike Hire in Avarua, at the same counter as Avis car rental, (682) 20895.
I'd go back to Aitutaki just to take the daylong Aitutaki Lagoon Cruise. I booked this cruise from Rarotonga with my Island Hoppers Tour package for $35 (including hotel pickup, lunch and use of snorkeling equipment), but a slightly lower price can be negotiated with the cruise manager at (682) 31598 once you're on Aitutaki.
Perhaps the most memorable thing one can do in the Cook Islands is attend Sunday services at Aitutaki's Cook Islands Christian Church. The service starts Sunday at 10 A.M.
Island Night is Aitutaki's other main social event -- there is one at Crusher Bar on Thursday and one at Ralphie's on Friday. By the end of the show I attended at Ralphie's, half of the audience -- locals and tourists -- was dancing exuberantly on stage. Island Night entertainment is free -- you pay $14 for the excellent buffet dinner.
Cook Islands dance music is as infectious as Caribbean soca, which it resembles. Consulting the pop charts in the Cook Island News, I bought the island's No. 1 hit, "Rarotonga Tour '98," by the Tongareva Five ($11). When I want to revisit my night at Ralphie's, I play this lively CD, which is available from Vaipec Music Distributors in Auckland, New Zealand, fax (64-9) 277-7002. DAISANN McLANE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The restaurant hut at Maina Sunset Motel. An Air Rarotonga plane at the Rarotonga International Airport. Island Night at Ralphie's. (Photographs by Daisann McLane)(pg. 6); The Aitutaki Christian Church, after a Sunday morning service. The author's cottage at Aroko Bungalows on Rarotonga. (Photographs by Daisann McLane)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (85%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: COOK ISLANDS (96%); NEW ZEALAND (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (91%); 

COMPANY: COOK GROUP INC (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COOK ISLANDS; COOK ISLANDS (96%); NEW ZEALAND (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (91%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (85%); AIRPORTS (78%); IMMIGRATION (75%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (73%); GEOGRAPHY (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); 

PERSON: MCLANE, DAISANN ROBIN COOK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



247 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 15; Page 18; Column 1; Women's Health 

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: For Employed Moms, the Pinnacle Of Stress Comes After Work Ends

BYLINE: By ALICE LESCH KELLY; Alice Lesch Kelly, a Massachusetts writer, contributes to Health and Shape magazines.

 BODY:
SUSAN REICHE, a public policy manager at AT&T in Basking Ridge, N.J., can handle what work throws at her from 9 to 5. It's what life throws at her between 5 and 9 that pushes her to the limit.
After she flips off her office computer, she hurries to a day care center to pick up her 4-year-old son and then rushes across town to fetch her 7-year-old daughter from an after-school program. She makes a quick trip to the store to buy food for dinner, then zips home, where she lets the dog out, makes dinner, referees a fight or two between the children, feeds the dog, says hello to her husband, gives her son a bath, helps her daughter with her spelling words, tosses a load of laundry into the washing machine, plays with her children, reads with them and puts them to bed. 
 Finally, about 9 P.M., she has a minute to sit down. Whew.
"Before that, the feeling is that if I can sit down, then I'm not doing everything I need to do," said Ms. Reiche, 37. "Most of the time, I don't even have a chance to change out of my work clothes."
For working mothers like Ms. Reiche, the evening is when all the roles they juggle -- employee, mother, wife -- come crashing together as they try to separate from work, spend time with their children and reconnect with their spouses. It's also a short window of time for a long list of chores, from homework to housework.
"For most working mothers, this is the most stressful part of the day," said Alice D. Domar, the director of the Mind/Body Center for Women's Health at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, a Harvard University teaching hospital in Boston.
As Dr. Domar's research has shown, unrelenting stress is more than just an irritation. It can take a physical toll on a woman's body, weakening her immune system, threatening her cardiovascular system and contributing to headaches, backaches, gastrointestinal distress and insomnia.
Some of the factors that make up the evening rush could be described as the duel of the deadlines, the missing co-pilot and the unpredictable audience.
Just getting out of the office on time can jangle the nerves of the calmest of women, especially as the American economy has moved away from shift work. And day care centers and baby sitters can be just as unyielding, as any mother who's been scolded by a baby sitter or charged $1 a minute in late fees at a day care center that closes at 5:30 on the dot knows.
For Victoria Parker, 30, of Ipswich, Mass., the intense pressure of having to leave work precisely at 4:30 P.M., sometimes in the middle of a meeting, to get to her baby sitter's doorstep by 5:30 contributed to her decision to quit her job as a magazine editor.
"It was a frantic rush to get out of the office," Mrs. Parker said. "It was so stressful."
Even with a smooth departure, a woman can still feel stress when she gets home if her husband is unwilling or unavailable to help with child care, cooking and housework. And women whose husbands pitch in can still find themselves flying solo in the evenings.
The good news is that men in dual-income families are starting to catch up with women on household chores, said Rosalind C. Barnett, a senior scientist in the Women's Studies Program at Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass. Her research shows that women in dual-income couples do about 55 percent of the household chores, and men do about 45 percent.
But men who work full time put in an average of six to eight hours more a week at the office than women who work full time. Because those hours are usually tacked to the beginning or end of a man's workday, women must often take responsibility for feeding the children breakfast and dinner. "Men miss out on meal chores, and those tend to be very stressful," Dr. Barnett said.
There may be another reason husbands don't do more: their wives don't let them. In a recent study published in the Journal of Marriage and Family, researchers at Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, concluded that about 21 percent of working mothers are "gatekeepers" who limit their husband's participation in household tasks and child care.
ACCORDING to Alan Hawkins, the director of the Family Studies Center at Brigham Young University and a co-author of the study, these mothers discourage their husbands from taking on household tasks and child care for several reasons: running the household reinforces their identity as mothers; they can't or won't let go of traditional conceptions of family roles, or their standards are so high that nobody else can satisfy them.
"Sometimes what it takes is being willing to turn a job over to your husband and letting him do it his way," Dr. Hawkins said.
Even if fathers help, working mothers say that planning and organization are crucial to removing stress from evening routines. But the unpredictability of children's behavior can throw kinks into even the most carefully engineered schedules. No amount of planning can prevent a poorly timed tantrum or bitter bickering between siblings.
"Children hold together until their parents pick them up from day care, and then they fall apart," said Carol A. Seefeldt, a professor of human development at the Institute for Child Study at the University of Maryland at College Park.
They fall apart for several reasons: hunger, excitement at seeing their parents, difficulty making transitions and fatigue, Dr. Seefeldt said. Fatigue may be the biggest problem.
"Many working parents keep their children up late at night so they can spend extra time with them," she said. "The child is often just physically exhausted."
Given the choice of dealing with all these stresses or making a job change, many couples opt for change. After her second child was born, Mrs. Parker, the former magazine editor, gave up her three-day-a-week job in Boston because the numbers didn't add up. After she subtracted day care costs of $4.50 an hour for each child from her part-time salary and added the stress of commuting two hours a day, she decided to stay home and squeeze in occasional writing and editing jobs during nap times and at night.
"I don't regret my decision for a minute," Mrs. Parker said.
Other parents -- particularly those whose high salaries give them financial flexibility -- reduce their hours and take a pay cut.
Dr. Barnett said the average highly educated professional works well over 50 hours a week, not including commuting time, but would like to reduce that commitment by at least 20 hours.
But what of women who can neither cut back on work nor quit their jobs? Psychologists and others who have studied work-life issues offered these suggestions for smoothing the evening rush hours:
* Learn to "compartmentalize." When you are home, try your best to put work behind you and to focus on being a mother rather than an employee. If that is tough, keep a notebook or recorder at hand so that you can capture work-related thoughts, then move back to the home task at hand.
* Take time to get reacquainted. Many women go home and immediately start on dinner preparations. But dinner is not the most important thing on the evening's agenda; reconnecting with your family is. Offer the children a nutritious, high-protein snack, like cheese and orange juice, to stave off crankiness, then focus on them for a few minutes. Then, start dinner.
* Cut corners wherever you can. Catherine Chambliss, a psychology professor at Ursinus College, near Philadelphia, recommends looking at your typical evening and asking this: What in our routine is the most onerous task? Can it be renegotiated in some way? "As the adult, you have the freedom to define the standard," Dr. Chambliss said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Painting by Philemona Williamson)
 
Chart: "After Work, a Full Schedule"
Susan Reiche, a mother and a manager at AT&T, faces a long list of chores after she leaves work every day.
 
5:00 P.M. -- Shut down office computer.
5:10 P.M. -- Be in the parking lot, getting into the car.
5:15 P.M. -- Pick up son from day care.
5:45 P.M. -- Pick up daughter from after-school program.
6:10 P.M. -- Go to grocery store.
6:30 P.M. -- Arrive home. Begin to cook dinner.
7:00 P.M. -- Eat dinner.
7:20 P.M. -- Finish dinner. Clean up kitchen. Start water for baths.
7:45 P.M. -- Son takes bath; daughter does homework.
8:15 P.M. -- Read with children, watch television, talk.
8:30 P.M. -- Put son to bed. Try not to fall asleep with him.
9:00 P.M. -- Daughter goes to bed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: WOMEN'S HEALTH INTERACTIVE LLC (53%); FAMILY STUDIES CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAMILY STUDIES CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); BOSTON, MA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; STRESS (HUMAN); WOMEN; MEN; WORKING HOURS CHILDREN (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); WORKING MOTHERS (89%); CHILD CARE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (70%); WOMEN (70%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (69%); 

PERSON: KELLY, ALICE LESCH SUSAN REICHE (75%); ALAN HAWKINS (55%); ROSALIND C BARNETT (55%); ALICE D DOMAR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



248 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 51; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 2906 words

HEADLINE: The Trailblazer

BYLINE: By Daniel Lewis; Daniel Lewis, a former cultural news editor at The Times, is writing a book on the California wilderness.

 BODY:
The day came when Mike Dombeck was asked if he could straighten out the United States Forest Service, and although he had no history of rash behavior, he said yes. Now he's in charge of 191 million acres of national forest -- about 8 percent of the United States. It's a nice job, in theory, for someone who grew up roaming the north woods of Wisconsin. In practice, though, just about the only trail Mike Dombeck ever gets to wander anymore is the Heartburn Loop, from his office near the Washington Monument to the halls of Congress.
On this damp February day, Mike Dombeck is bivouacked at a hearing before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, run by timber-state Republicans who are eager to give the Forest Service chief a few whacks. Nothing personal: "We like Mike," an aide to Senator Larry E. Craig of Idaho explains. "We feel sorry for him." 
 The thing is, Western politicians have not quite given up hope of raising logging quotas in the national forests, where timber output has dropped about 70 percent over the last decade under the pressure of environmental lawsuits and Clinton Administration policies. They have received small comfort from Dombeck, by reputation an easygoing guy, who has turned out to be the most aggressive conservationist to head the Forest Service in at least half a century. Not, by a long shot, so aggressive as to suit all environmental groups. But enough to justify the hope that the long, mean-spirited battle for control of the national forests might finally be inching toward an environmentally sensible end.
The ostensible topic before the committee is the new Forest Service budget request, $3.48 billion for the fiscal year 2000. But there's another subject on the senators' minds, and that's the flurry of timber and mining reforms Dombeck put in place earlier in the month, when the Republicans were preoccupied with the wreck of the Clinton impeachment.
One week Dombeck petitioned Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt to ban new mining claims for 20 years all along the Rocky Mountain Front, an especially scenic and fragile belt where the Montana plains stop dead against the first rank of cliffs. The following week came enactment of the boldest stroke of forest policy in years: a moratorium on the construction of new logging roads in remote reaches of most national forests. That decision effectively blocked timber-cutting in a combined area larger than Pennsylvania.
Now Senator Craig is peering down at Mike Dombeck from the dais and gesturing with some papers he's holding in his hand, as if he might have somehow gotten an indictment. Actually it's a sheaf of editorials about the road moratorium, which has been criticized by Western newspapers and praised by Eastern ones, including The New York Times. "It would appear that you have been quite busy since we last talked, Chief Dombeck," Craig begins. "I am not sure whether you have been busier managing the national forests or creating a religious cult among East Coast editorial writers."
This is already sounding like good, nasty fun, and when in the next breath Craig sardonically refers to a "cult of Mike," some of the Forest Service staff members in the room simply break up. Dombeck, on the other hand, does a pretty good impression of someone who didn't get the joke. In fact, he is known around the office as something of a square: a fish biologist whose one-note speaking style and wire-rimmed glasses seem to have followed him into middle age all the way from high school.
Still, political theatrics aside, Larry Craig is on to something. It really is a little weird that Mike Dombeck has emerged from the middle distance of Government bureaucracy to become the environmental man of the hour. As he himself said after this particular three-hour grilling, "I'm not one that's naturally attracted to controversy." And, with his flat, Lake Wobegon voice, you believe him.
When Mike Dombeck took over the Forest Service in 1997, he inherited just about the biggest mess Government had to offer. The once-proud agency's bloated staff was famous for inefficiency, except when it came to doing exactly the wrong thing -- kowtowing to timber interests, abusing the land and punishing dissenters in the ranks. The results of poor stewardship were plain to see. The Forest Service's finances were such a swamp of sloppiness and fantastic accounting that it was one of only two agencies -- the other being the Defense Department -- that prevented the Federal Government from getting a clean audit.
The real estate was no better off. At least a quarter of all national forest land was in such poor shape from logging and neglect that conditions were ripe for cataclysmic fires -- by the Forest Service's own reckoning. Further damage was done by the construction of nearly 400,000 miles of logging roads, the deterioration of which has caused soil erosion and watershed damage on a grand scale.
To its credit, the Clinton Administration set about reforming the Forest Service early on, curbing logging and confronting racial and sexual prejudice among the agency's 35,000 workers. The Clintonites, however, managed to betray their efforts by going along with Congress in the short-lived salvage-timber rider of 1995. That deal, which allowed loggers to harvest diseased and damaged trees under a suspension of environmental regulations, quickly touched off a feeding frenzy on healthy trees as well, until public outrage reached a pitch that even Congress couldn't ignore.
Among other things, the salvage fiasco figured importantly in the undoing of Jack Ward Thomas, Mike Dombeck's predecessor. A biologist noted for his work on the spotted owl, Thomas was an outsider, known more as a hands-on forester than as a Washington bureaucrat. His three years in office were marked by attacks from environmentalists and by hopeless efforts to win the confidence of the agency's old guard, which had openly protested his appointment and sabotaged his initiatives.
So when Mike Dombeck, the acting director of the Bureau of Land Management, was appointed to head the Forest Service, many were quick to dismiss the chance of further reforms. When Dan Beard heard about Dombeck's move, he got depressed. Beard, a senior vice president of the National Audubon Society and the head of the Bureau of Reclamation for part of Bill Clinton's first term, had a clear impression of Dombeck as "a quiet, demure guy -- a Caspar Milquetoast." And he said to himself, "There goes any chance of reform at that agency."
The fact that Beard now thinks Dombeck is the best Forest Service chief since Gifford Pinchot, the agency's founding father a century ago, is evidence that Mike Dombeck learned something important from the ugly demise of Jack Ward Thomas: the chief of the Forest Service will be in trouble regardless of what he does, so he may as well be in trouble for things of his own choosing.
When I first met Mike Dombeck in June 1998, a year and half after he'd taken the job, he had already challenged the Republican Congress and his own bureaucracy on so many fronts that the momentum seemed to be shifting to his side. Besides pushing his road-moratorium plan, Dombeck had restructured practically the entire top layer of the agency, replacing all six deputy chiefs and replacing or transferring seven of the nine regional foresters, the top field officers in the far-flung system of 155 national forests and grasslands. He had also reversed the criteria for judging the performance of Forest Service officers in the field, putting things like watershed improvement and wildlife protection ahead of the traditional emphasis on meeting timber-cut quotas.
In response to the Forest Service's legacy of misleading bookkeeping, he had published figures that officially acknowledged for the first time what outside analysts had known for years: that the Forest Service lost tens of millions of dollars annually on logging operations.
Perhaps more important, he had survived with wry good humor the distinction of being, he says, "the first chief in history to appear before three House committees at one time," and in the process put to rest any doubts about his courage under fire. This was a joint hearing on March 26, 1998, prompted, officially, by a scathing Government audit of Forest Service fiscal and management problems and, unofficially, by cumulative anger over Mike Dombeck's reformist notions. There was no shortage of House members in the room, but characteristically, Representative Helen Chenoweth of Idaho, the Republican chairman of a subcommittee on forest health, was the one who cut the fastest swath through the underbrush.
At one point, she asked if Forest Service personnel were violating Federal lobbying laws by explaining the details of pending legislation in public forums. She demanded a list of organizations that had been contacted about such presentations. And then Congressman Chenoweth, as she prefers to be called, offered Dombeck a little friendly advice about the job he was doing: "I guess I want to say, this is awful dangerous for a man as young as you are, and has a long way to continue with your successful career. I am just speaking as an individual, but I feel very badly about this, and I hope that you will ask your people to re-evaluate this kind of activity."
"I particularly appreciate the compliment about my age," the 50-year-old Mike Dombeck answered.
Mike Dombeck has the patience of a fisherman, which is not surprising given the fact he was reared in the Chequamegon National Forest of northern Wisconsin. His parents ran a backwoods emporium there, the Moose Lake Store, where people from miles around came to get phone messages and buy everything from kerosene to bib overalls and milk and bread.
As a teen-ager, Dombeck worked two summers as a logger, cutting pulpwood and being eaten alive by mosquitoes before it dawned on him that the other local line of work, fishing guide, meant being on the big lakes where breezes kept the bugs away. Dombeck fished for 11 summers, earning money for college and going on to the University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point to study biology. It was there that he read "A Sand County Almanac," the classic of environmentalism by Aldo Leopold. The book turned the aspiring scientist into a conservationist, helping him to see science from "a philosophical angle" and to understand that the natural world is "all tied together."
While getting a Ph.D. in fisheries biology from Iowa State University, Dombeck also worked for the Forest Service as a field biologist. In 1989 he came to Washington as the agency's national fisheries manager. By the time of his appointment as Forest Service chief, he had a head full of ideas not just about the forests but also about clean water, open land and livability.
He also knew how to play well with others -- an important skill in an age of exploding Forest Service chiefs and spotted-owl skirmishes. According to Kathleen McGinty, a former head of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, the Administration chose Dombeck to lead the service because of his ability at the Bureau of Land Management "to not have train wrecks and lawsuits and everybody across the spectrum shouting." He was also picked, she adds, because he is "a person of great patience."
Francis Pandolfi, who until recently worked as a top aide to Dombeck, saw that patience applied to practical politics. "I've seen Mike with Larry Craig, with Helen Chenoweth, with a lot of people who are very confrontational," he says. "They fire these barbs at you, and they try to get you mad. Well, Mike doesn't get mad. I don't know what he does when he goes home at night -- takes the dog for long walks. But he will not return fire. He will recognize their point of view and respect it, and if he says he will look into something, he will look into it."
Like Gifford Pinchot at the turn of the century, Dombeck may be uniquely situated to repair several decades' worth of damage to the forests, rehabilitate streams silted by erosion and encourage the preservation of open space. To do all that, however, he must first change the economics of the Forest Service. The agency's budget is still organized like a perpetual-motion machine whose primary purpose is to sell trees for harvest, under the direction of the very forces in Congress that are demanding reform now that the harvest isn't paying sufficient dividends to their contributors and constituents.
Until the White House and Congress can agree to do things differently, regional forest managers will be forced to cut down trees to make money for other things they may want to do, including repairing environmental damage caused by cutting down trees. The imperative to keep logging is further reinforced by provisions that pay rural towns and counties 25 percent of the value of trees harvested in their area -- money used for schools and county roads. Although some of these places are coming around to Dombeck's argument that it makes no sense for the richest country in the world to make the quality of children's education dependent on cutting down trees, there's no immediate prospect of a change in that formula, either.
It's still not clear that the new way of doing business has worked its way through the ranks, despite Dombeck's frequent exhortations for people to get timber off their brains. This past winter, the inspector general of the Forest Service's own parent agency, the Agriculture Deparment, issued a finding of "numerous serious deficiencies" in all 12 of the timber projects inspected from 1994 through 1996. Though Dombeck took over in 1997, even diehard optimists don't expect the next report card to be all that much better. Bureaucracies simply don't turn on a dime.
Come summer, when most of the rougher congressional hearings have been held, even the chief of the United States Forest Service can spend time in the great outdoors. And thus it was last July that Dombeck and I hooked up in Great Falls, Mont., and drove across the Continental Divide into the Swan Valley. His idea, besides making a little time for fly-fishing with his daughter, was to drop in at district ranger stations for give-and-take sessions on the front lines -- in the places where the trees grow and the directives from Washington swamp the in-boxes and the townspeople are wondering what to do now that there are no more logs to feed the sawmills.
Lincoln, Mont., is such a town, though it will probably be known forever as the place where Theodore Kaczynski, the Unabomber, was found and arrested in April 1996. At the Lincoln ranger station, people greeted Dombeck like a comrade who had inexplicably returned from a suicide mission. They said "Mike" and "Chief" and "way to go" and punched him lightly on the biceps. And when the meeting got down to business, they didn't sound much like a bunch of foot-draggers standing in the way of reform.
One of those present was Tom Clifford, the supervisor of the Helena National Forest. A professional forester with 30 years of service, he was fed up with paperwork and the lawsuits from the left and the right over everything he planned to do. His budget had been subdivided into so many specialized categories to meet the demands of Congress and Washington program managers, he said, that the salaries of some of his staff were being patched together from six different accounts.
He was even more frustrated by his inability to do anything about cleaning up abandoned mines on forest property, which the State of Montana stood ready to help finance. More than 2,000 old mines are scattered on national forest land in Montana alone, and many of them are leaching toxic heavy metals into the trout streams that run through Norman Maclean's "River Runs Through It."
"Mike!" Clifford said at one point. "Somebody has to get passionate about this!"
A little later, up the road at Seeley Lake, Dombeck took questions from townspeople distressed by the local impact of logging restrictions. One woman put it in the plainest possible terms: "What is to become of us?"
This was no time to answer that everyone was feeling the pain, that trees from the national forests were now accounting for only 55,000 jobs nationwide and supplying only 4 percent of the country's wood-product needs and that the business of timber had changed fundamentally and forever.
"You have to think ahead," Mike Dombeck said. "You have to think about what you want this place to look like 20 years from now."
Dombeck himself is naturally at ease with the long view and willing to plug away until he outlasts the opposition, says Pandolfi, his former aide. Whether it is the old timber barons or environmental groups alarmed over the booming recreation business in national forests, it takes a long time to change things in Washington. "So over time," Pandolfi says, "he makes the changes that he thinks are right, follows the policy that he thinks is right, and by then these people have nothing left to say. They have gone on to other things."
Still, Dombeck's time could run out with the next Presidential election. And Michael Francis of the Wilderness Society speaks for many environmentalists when he wishes that Dombeck would be even "more daring and lock in more changes."
"He may have only two more years before Darth Vader comes in," Francis says. "Whoever Darth Vader may be."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The fish weren't biting for the Forest Service chief during a fly- fishing break in Montana, but his constituents were.; The way Dombeck sees it, if he's going to be in trouble, it might as well be for things of his own choosing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FOREST SERVICE (92%); FOREST SERVICE (94%); FOREST SERVICE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (94%); FOREST SERVICE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IDAHO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; MINES AND MINING; LOGGING INDUSTRY LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); LITIGATION (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); MINES & MINING (62%); NEW MINING PROJECTS (62%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (62%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, DANIEL; DOMBECK, MICHAEL P LARRY CRAIG (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



249 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 28; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 6-13-99: Word & Image;
The Information Tyranny

BYLINE: By Max Frankel 

 BODY:
The Web nuts of America career around the Internet celebrating a new freedom to shout and spout anything into the ether: no more restraints on speech, they insist; no more hierarchy of thought. I hope they were watching old-time public television for just an hour last week, as Bill Moyers documented our society's slide into a new information tyranny, how corporate wealth is monopolizing debate, corrupting politicians and dictating policy. (The program will be rebroadcast tonight on WNET in the New York area.)
Moyers's thesis, oxymoronically titled "Free Speech for Sale," began with a modest morality tale about how special interests can easily mislead the public. It featured Cindy Watson, the first Republican in a century to represent her rural district in the North Carolina Legislature. Responding to her constituency, she helped pass a moratorium to limit the growth of hog farming until something was done to control the hog waste that spewed nauseating ammonia fumes across the landscape. 
 What the hog corporations did instead was lay waste to Cindy Watson, using their wealth to, essentially, buy the franchise. They spent $2.6 million on TV ads to smear her reputation and to conduct fake polls designed not to sample public sentiment but to ask suggestive questions about her "flip-flops" and "loss of the voters' trust." Unable to afford rebuttal ads, Watson drowned in the muck and lost her seat in 1996.
When corporate interests are unable to mislead the public, Moyers showed, they concentrate their wealth to intimidate Congress. The obvious example: last year's $40 million television ad campaign to redefine an anti-smoking bill as a "tax and spend" public burden. Even after victory, the triumphant industry kept buying commercials to assist the campaigns of loyal senators. No one bankrolled an opposing interest.
Finally, as if monopolizing media time were not enough, some corporate behemoths have bought favor and protection simply by buying the media. Vast conglomerates like Disney, Fox and General Electric have acquired control over entertainment hardware and software -- both the wires into every home and the images they carry. Not incidentally, that also gives them control over all the television news concerning their own conduct. That is why the giveaway of perhaps $70 billion worth of spectrum space -- reserved channels in which broadcasters will greatly improve and multiply their transmissions -- was passed last year with hardly any public discussion. The television networks allowed no serious on-air debate of the possibility of auctioning off such a valuable public resource.
In this distortion of democratic values, the obvious culprit is a legal mythology that grants every corporation -- already enjoying immortality and limited economic liability -- the same First Amendment rights of free speech as those guaranteed to individual citizens. That relatively recent reading of the Constitution produces a false equality between a corporate shout and every ordinary citizen's whisper.
As Bert Neuborne, the legal director of the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University's Law School, told Moyers: "The First Amendment is aspirational. It's romantic. It says that the purpose is to create a world in which people can speak freely and equally to one another. And therefore there's an obligation to step in at some point and even the playing field so that individuals can actually have real discussions and real debates. . . . What we've now got is not a real democracy with real debate but . . . a plutocracy in which money talks."
And on television, money talks out of proportion to all other speech. So it is the field of political talk on television that needs leveling. The great effect and high cost of television commercials corrupt all politics and most politicians. If the commercials cannot be banned altogether, they should at least be offset with free and fair time for opposing views. As Kathleen Hall Jamieson, dean of the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, has said to the broadcast industry: "If you're getting that kind of income out of this advertising process, don't you have some obligation to provide some alternative access to the alternative points of view?"
The disingenuous opponents of such reform contend that "full disclosure" of who is paying for a propaganda blitz should suffice to keep politics honest. But the discovery that the "Farmers for Fairness" who knocked off Cindy Watson are really corporate hogs who stood to profit enormously did not come nearly in time to do her much good. After the 1996 election, even a paper with the resources of The Wall Street Journal needed more than a year to track the contributions -- including 165,000 individual checks for $5,000 -- that the hedge-fund industry made to Republicans to induce them to pass an amendment yielding huge profits to their industry.
As for legislated "limits" on corporate giving, they have been rendered farcical. Even corporations that bother to observe the limits now give to a wild variety of committees, party units, "issue" campaigns and far-flung state and local do-good organizations, all of whom invariably mock the law by directing the money to the campaign chests of specific candidates.
As has become painfully obvious, the winners of elections by these means are in no mood to change the rules. Can reform be accomplished without them? Can a victimized public somehow circumvent the cynical maneuvers by which both major parties protect their corrupting quest of funds and the influence of wealth? Under pressure from Congress, the Federal Communications Commission has refused to revive the fairness doctrine that once required broadcasters to give equal time to opposing views. But Dennis Morrisseau, now of Oak Island, N.C., once had an idea whose time may have come.
When I last addressed the issue, Morrisseau recalled that as a hugely "underfunded" candidate for Congress in Vermont 25 years ago, he sued the local TV station and the F.C.C. in Federal Court, demanding that they halt the overpowering commercials of his opponents. He said the great effect of television commercials and their high cost meant, in combination, that broadcasters were using the public air to establish an unconstitutional "means test" for achieving Federal office.
His case was thrown out, but "I still like the point," Morrisseau writes.
So do I, and so would most folks if they were told enough about how our information democracy has been hijacked by a corporate tyranny.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Film still from Public Affairs Television)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO; FOX INC; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO; FOX INC; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; LAW AND LEGISLATION MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); HOG & PIG FARMING (73%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); SMOKING BANS (63%); SMOKING (63%); 

PERSON: FRANKEL, MAX; MOYERS, BILL WILLIAM DON 'BILL' MOYERS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



250 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 37; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: ART / ARHITECTURE;
A Bridge Between a City and Its Self-Image

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
JEAN NOUVEL'S new design for a hotel and cineplex on the Brooklyn waterfront strikes me as one of the most imaginatively conceived pieces of architecture New York has seen in a long time. I've been groping for ideas to explain why. What makes a building contemporary? An impossible question to answer, but perhaps not a fruitless one to ask.
These days, architecture is not governed by a fixed set of guidelines, as it was, for instance, during the years of the modern movement. Buildings by Frank Gehry, Rem Koolhaas, Peter Eisenman, Steven Holl, Tod Williams and Billie Tsien, Daniel Libeskind, Philippe Starck, Rafael Vinoly, Zaha Hadid, Eric Moss and Thom Mayne are each highly distinctive in appearance and atmosphere, yet in common they can quicken your awareness of the present and its untapped possibilities. Where does that power come from? 
 Four thoughts. Walter Pater said that critics should ask: "In whom did the stir, the genius, the sentiment of the period find itself?" That's a start. Iris Murdoch, in "Metaphysics as a Guide to Morals," offered a more rigorous definition. "Serious art," she wrote, "is a continuous working of meaning in the light of the discovery of some truth."
John Summerson, writing in 1947, also emphasized the idea that contemporary art depends on a process of continuous working and on the value of discovery: "The most a critic can do is to sort out those aging ideas that get encrusted around past creative achievements and clog the proper working of the imagination in changing times." And if you can accept that architecture is a public art, indeed the most conspicuously public art of all, then I think that a statement by Arthur Danto also helps illuminate the meaning and and value of Mr. Nouvel's new design: "Public art is the public transfigured. It is us, in the medium of artistic transformation."
Actually, I can't improve on Mr. Danto's idea as a depiction of Mr. Nouvel's design. It's a bridgelike building for a city poised between being and becoming. It shows a city in transition from manufacturing to information as an economic base. It is playful, disciplined, sociable and pushy. It refracts into crystalline form New York's exquisite and infuriating narcissism, a town enthralled by its cinematic panoramas and animated by the yearning of its citizens to star in them. And the project has aroused local opposition that is a form of narcissism in itself. The opponents seem to be fighting their own reflection in a mirror.
The River Hotel is part of a plan to redevelop a 72-acre, former industrial area on the East River called Dumbo (Down Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass). The plan, which is seriously flawed, includes masses of retail shops, a redesign of the small, disheveled Fulton Landing Park, a small marina and parking garages. It also proposes housing a museum in the upper floors of Empire Stores, a handsome set of landmark brick warehouses that border the eastern edge of the park.
The Brooklyn Bridge Park Coalition, which opposes the plan, is right to demand that it be reconceived. The hotel itself is another matter. It deserves support.
Designed to resemble a pier, the hotel complex is in two main sections. A slim, four-story bar building is cantilevered from atop a square, five-story box. The bar projects 134 feet out over the East River and rises to a height of 100 feet, stopping just short of the Manhattan Bridge roadway. A glass bridge connects the hotel to a health club and spa across the street.
Mr. Nouvel has chosen a spare, industrial vocabulary. The facades are a simple grid pattern of gray metal fitted with floor-to-ceiling windows of white glass, so called because of its high degree of transparency. Because the hotel roof and its underside would be visible to bridge and water traffic, Mr. Nouvel has treated these surfaces as if they, too, were facades.
On the roof, instead of mechanical equipment, there are rectangular skylights and landscaped patios for the top floor. Three levels of public rooms, enclosed by seamless glass walls, are suspended beneath the building in a reverse ziggurat formation. On the lower of these floors a dance floor-size square of glass allows views of the river beneath.
The private rooms are minimally furnished and stylish. The east wall of each room is lined with mirror, doubling the skyline views. (Pray for soft lighting.) For the roof of the building, Mr. Nouvel has designed a tilted louver of reflective glass mirror that would cast reflections through skylights into the top floor rooms.
No museum has yet been named to occupy the old brick warehouses, and perhaps the proposal to put one there is redundant. The fact is that Mr. Nouvel has designed his cineplex as if it were a museum of contemporary art. And why shouldn't it be, if films are our leading popular art form?
The 16-screen cineplex is housed in a low, rectangular structure from which the projecting pier form is cantilevered. Mr. Nouvel has a thing about technological gimmicks (like the photosensitive irises installed in the facade of the Arab World Institute in Paris; alas, they occasionally break down). For the cineplex, he has installed windows behind the screens. These would be raised and lowered between performances, allowing stunning views of that other great collective art form: the Manhattan skyline. He has also proposed mounting screens on the exterior of the building, which could be used for artists' projects.
Dumbo's developer, David Walentas, the client, calls the design Main Street Pier. The architect himself calls it a bridge between two bridges. To my eye, the imagery looks nautical, as if the defunct Brooklyn Navy Yard nearby had gone into the business of floating hotels. There are open and enclosed promenades, reminiscent of those on the great trans-Atlantic liners. In the public corridors, surfboard-shape light wells are enclosed by shiplike railings.
In fact, the project should be seen as a step toward the time when New York is once again a great water city, with water taxis, ferries, piers, parks and other public amenities as well as new industrial uses enlarging the maritime dimension of New York.
Murdoch's idea helps illuminate this design. Mr. Nouvel has rethought the character of the city's waterfront at a time of change. If you look down on that site now (and it happens that I see part of Fulton Landing Park from my kitchen window), it is hard to believe that this is the ideal location for a luxury hotel. But you don't have to think ahead too far to glimpse a very different picture, of a time when water traffic will help to reshape the city's urban contours, just as the Brooklyn Bridge did years ago.
Will this project be built? Snowball's chance in hell, they say. But the ideas this particular snowball represents are not going to melt away. Mr. Nouvel has considered both the city's psychological and physical context. With its mirrors, its views, its white glass reflections, the building is a portrait of New York's narcissism at architectural scale. It brings to mind the famous Saul Steinberg drawing of New York's self-absorbed view of the world. Like that drawing, it counters self-absorption with self-awareness. It is a reflection on the city's narcissism, not a mindless indulgence in it. "The stir, the genius, the sentiment of the period" don't come more persuasively than this.
In this, it differs from the vanity that has trickled into architectural preservation circles in recent years. That threatens to turn an otherwise estimable movement into one of those aging ideas that get encrusted around past creative achievement and clog the proper workings of the imagination in changing times. The preservation movement has been a dominant influence on New York architecture for two decades, and its achievements are overwhelmingly constructive. But it has also come to include a sanctimonious Sacred Cow mentality. Perhaps the time has come to measure its environmental impact on the quality of New York's architecture.
Who doesn't love the kind of vanitythat we experience when we check out our reflections in fancy shop windows and see images of ourselves and the city overlaid atop pouty mannequins?This is one of the great urban pleasures. Mr. Nouvel's building will offer many similar moments throughout.
There's another kind of narcissistic outlook that is not so benign. According to this view, the public realm exists only to reflect popular prejudices, not to challenge or expose them. This strain has played a major role in New York's resistance to change. It has led to a confusion between architecture and architectural history, and in recent years this confusion has covered the city's architectural aspirations like a blanket of dust.
Mr. Nouvel's design and the opposition raised against it are both immensely narcissistic. The difference is that Mr. Nouvel knows what he is about. He has reworked meaning in light of the discovery of an important truth about the city today. That's what makes him a serious artist and his design an important work of art.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At top, a hotel and cineplex designed by Jean Nouvel for the Brooklyn waterfront between the Manhattan and Brooklyn bridges. Above, a corridor on the top floor of the project. The architect calls design a bridge between two bridges. (Renderings by Architectures Jean Nouvel/Beyer Blinder Belle)(pg. 37); The architect Jean Nouvel on the site of his proposed hotel-movie complex on the Brooklyn waterfront. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; DUMBO (NYC); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: REVIEWS; ARCHITECTURE; HOTELS AND MOTELS RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT; NOUVEL, JEAN ZAHA HADID (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



251 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: In the Region /Connecticut;
An Amusement Park on a Roller-Coaster Upswing

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
THREE years ago, after a decade of more ups and downs at the Lake Compounce amusement park than its 72-year-old wooden Wildcat roller coaster, the Pennsylvania-based Kennywood Corporation took over with a promise to return it to its former glory.
"We weren't smart enough to know that we couldn't make it work," said Harry Henninger, president and chief executive of Kennywood. "We really thought it was a wonderful opportunity, and fortunately we were right." 
 On Memorial Day weekend the park, which straddles the border of Bristol and Southington in central Connecticut, reopened for its third season under the new owners. Over the last couple of years, Kennywood has invested $35 million in the park. Orange stakes designate where the newest development will go -- a $6 million roller coaster almost a mile long built right into the side of the mountain that forms the park's western border.
The park's year-round workforce of 35 will swell to 1,000 by the Fourth of July weekend. While the privately held Kennywood does not release attendance figures, Richard L. Bisi, the park's marketing director, called the estimate of 500,000 visitors last year by the state's Department of Economic and Community Development "pretty close."
John Weichsel, Town Manager of Southington, said Kennywood has had a big impact on the town's economic base and, more important, has evolved into a good, stable neighbor.
"Before this group came in it was sitting there dormant," said Mr. Weichsel. "They've come in, paid the back taxes and kept up with their current taxes, and they've put in many improvements, so it's been very good in terms of tax revenues. They're now one of our top 10 taxpayers once again.
"And since they've come in, we have not had any complaints. The prior owner had rock concerts there, and every time they had a concert we got complaints about noise, and the traffic was devastating. With a family-oriented park like they're operating, we don't have those same kinds of peaks."
Mayor Frank N. Nicastro of Bristol said that since Kennywood took over Lake Compounce, two new factories have opened in town, and three more are under construction, ranging in size from 8,000 to 120,000 square feet.
"I think it's difficult to point to one thing that is improving the economy of Bristol," Mr. Nicastro said. "But let's say this -- Lake Compounce is providing a lot of people with jobs, especially young people in the summer, and that's going to keep them in town, and that's going to give them money to spend. I would say, in general, Lake Compounce has improved the quality of life all around."
Edward D. Dombroskas, executive director of the Connecticut Office of Tourism, said he expected the economic impact of the amusement park will spread over the next several years.
"When Lake Compounce first opened under the new management they were looking out 50 miles for their market area," Mr. Dombroskas said. "Now we're seeing signs that they're reaching out much farther. That means they're reaching into markets that tend to translate into overnight stays, and that's what spawns the development of new industries -- hotels, restaurants, gasoline stations, and that sort of thing."
Some of that development could be done by Kennywood. The amusement park uses only about 100 of the 325 acres Kennywood purchased in 1996, including the 28-acre lake that is the centerpiece of the park. Thomas A. Wages, the park's general manager, noted that some of the land was not developable, so it's hard to say how much room might be available for expansion. And he deflected questions about what Kennywood might be planning for the rest. "At this point, we're really concentrating on the park -- that has to be our primary focus for a number of years," Mr. Wages said.
What is now the Lake Compounce amusement park opened as a "picnic park" in 1846, a date that a succession of owners has said gives it bragging rights as the oldest amusement complex in the country. Even during the early 1990's when the park was failing financially, the owners opened it at least one day each year to retain that title.
THE first permanent building was constructed overlooking the lake in 1895, with a restaurant on the ground floor and a ballroom on the second floor. The park's famous carousel, constructed by Timothy Murphy of Savin Rock, a village of West Haven, was opened to the public on Memorial Day in 1911, and three years later the Green Dragon, an electric-powered roller coaster, was added.
When Kennywood took it over, a lot of the locals wondered whether Lake Compounce could be revived. There was speculation that an amusement park didn't make much sense in New England, where weather limited the operating season to about a third of the year.
But Mr. Henninger, Kennywood's chief executive, said the Connecticut market had been underserved by amusement parks for some time, so the market potential is significant. In many areas, the penetration rate -- the number of households in a market area that visit a park each year -- can be as high as 65 percent. He estimated it is less than half that in Connecticut.
"We've got to get people back into the habit of going to the amusement park for a day, and not thinking their only option is to go to one of the big destination parks for a week," Mr. Henninger said.
Kennywood was founded in 1898 by the Monongahela Street Railway Company, which opened an amusement park in Pittsburgh on leased land that was formerly a picnic grove operated by Anthony Kenny. The company purchased the Idlewild Park in Ligonier, Pa., 1983, and developed Sandcastle Park in Pittsburgh, a water park that opened in 1990.
 The Lake Compounce park reopened for nearly a full season in 1997, with more than a dozen new rides, including a giant Ferris wheel, the Zoomerang, a lakeside trolley, a ski-lift ride to the top of Compounce Mountain, and the Thunder Rapids Raft Ride that earned it five minutes in a one-hour Discovery Channel special on "Extreme Rides."
In 1998, additions included the Splash Harbor water park, the Tornado, and the Skycoaster, with a 180-foot free fall that is not for the faint of heart. In all, the first two years saw 25 new rides.
This year, the new attractions include Ghost Hunt, which combines a haunted-house ride with the interactivity of a video game, and the Mark Twain, a 70-foot paddle-wheeler boat that plies the waters of the lake.
But park officials are most excited about the new $6 million Mountain Coaster designed by Custom Coasters International, which will stretch from the log-flume ride at the north end of the park, nearly to the pavilions at the south end. It will be built right into the side of the mountain with a 140-foot vertical drop giving it speeds of more than 60 miles an hour.
Construction will start during the season with fences to hide the work from parkgoers. The plan is to leave in place most of the hardwood forest and the house-sized boulders that now cover the slope.
"We really think it's going to become the park's signature ride, and because of the way it will be laid out it will tie the whole park together," Mr. Bisi said. "They've told us they've never built one like it before."
Mr. Henninger said big destination parks can develop big rides, or lots of rides, to attract visitors.
"That's great if you have really deep pockets, but when you're operating a regional park on a tight budget, and trying to get the most from your investment, you have to make the most of your assets," he said. "In the case of Lake Compounce, the mountain is one of its assets."
The park is also starting to market more of its off-season time. The weekend before it opened, Pfizer, which has its chief research site in nearby Groton, brought 8,000 employees and family members to the park for a company picnic. Next Thursday and Friday will be the last days of its educational program, which ran two days a week since May 20 bringing in 2,500 to 3,000 school children each day from all over Massachusetts, Connecticut and New York.
"Students don't often get a chance to see math and science applied in the real world, but this gives them a chance not only to see it but have fun while they're doing it," said Marianne Dudac, the park's education specialist, and a longtime teacher in Bristol schools. For younger children it might be something as simple as figuring out change at the concession stands; for older students, roller coasters and Ferris wheels are a great way to teach about centrifugal force.
"Our mountain here is where two continents collided and there was an upheaval, so they get to see examine the striations in the rocks and see what geology is all about," Ms. Dudac said.
Mr. Wages, the park's general manager, said the hope was that the employees who came to Pfizer's picnic, and the children who visited in school groups would be back with their families.
"It's very difficult to say you have a trend when you only have two seasons under your belt, but the trend that seems to be emerging so far is a steady growth in visitation, and a reasonable level of repeat business within the season," Mr. Wages said. "We still have the capacity for quite a bit of growth, and we're on the right trajectory."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Lake Compounce amusement park, where a new $6 million, nearly mile-long roller coaster built into the side of a mountain is planned. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: KENNYWOOD CORP; LAKE COMPOUNCE AMUSEMENT PARK (CONN) KENNYWOOD CORP (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: KENNYWOOD CORP; LAKE COMPOUNCE AMUSEMENT PARK (CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHINGTON (CONN); UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT PARKS AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MAYORS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); POP & ROCK (61%); NOISE POLLUTION (61%); 

PERSON: WEICHSEL, JOHN; HAMILTON, ROBERT A

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



252 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Halt the Push of the Bulldozers

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO 

 BODY:
FOR decades, Westchester County watched its farms disappear one by one as milking cows and apple orchards gave way to Cape Cods and Colonials in the march of suburbanization. But in the final year of the century, county officials are finally taking action to preserve what little remains of Westchester's agricultural heritage.
Late last month County Executive Andrew J. Spano sent a proposal to the Board of Legislators to establish an agriculture and farmland protection board. Such a board, authorized under state law, would be the first step in the county's battle to save farms. The board would then draft a farmland protection plan and could ultimately designate agricultural districts where farmers would have special benefits. 
 Mr. Spano said farmland protection serves several purposes. "It preserves open space, which is a priority for our administration," he said. "It preserves agriculture as a Westchester County industry, and it preserves tourism because people come up here to pick apples and strawberries."
The county initiative comes as Gov. George E. Pataki's administration has made millions of dollars available to local governments to save open space and support commercial farming.
Since 1996, New York State has awarded $18 million to municipalities to buy development rights on farms to keep the land forever in agriculture. More than half of that money went to protect farms on Long Island and in the Hudson Valley where development pressures are greatest. By establishing a farmland protection board, Westchester would be able to share those funds.
"Farms are under siege from developers who are throwing hundreds of thousands of dollars an acre at them to sell," said Pete Gregg, a spokesman for the New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets. "We're looking to prevent farms and open space from becoming strip malls. We're in a race here."
Westchester is one of only 10 counties that do not have an agricultural district. But farmers here are still able to take advantage of a state law that gives tax exemptions to farm operations with at least 10 acres and $10,000 in yearly revenue. Indeed, 84 farms in the county now qualify for the so-called agricultural assessment, receiving a substantial break on property taxes.
By the county's estimate, nearly 4,000 acres of farmland were lost between 1983 and 1994. There are 8,738 acres left, representing 236 agricultural business, ranging from horse farms and livestock operations to orchards and nurseries.
Establishing agricultural districts would extend some additional, modest tax relief to farmers. But mostly, officials say, it would free farmers from onerous local ordinances that hamper their ability to make money off the land, and it would also put new home buyers on notice that they are in farm country -- and that noise, dust and odors come with the territory.
"It's good that the county is beginning to recognize that there are some farms left and that they should remain," said Bob Stuart, who owns the 200-acre Stuart's Fruit Farm in Somers. The 171-year-old farm is one of the last in Westchester dating from the early 1800's, and Mr. Stuart's is the fifth generation to coax fruits, vegetables and flowers from the soil.
"A lot of people move here, and they don't know about orchards because they are coming from down-county," the 47-year-old Mr. Stuart said as he dismounted a tractor recently, a spring tan already well established on his lined face. "They don't have a clue about what it takes to run a farm."
While some counties have had culture clashes between farmers and suburbanites, with newcomers resenting the smell of manure or the torpor of a tractor on a county road, that has been less of an issue in Westchester because there are only a handful of livestock farms left, and many of the horse operations are pristine showplaces owned by gentlemen farmers and hobbyists. The nurseries are often little more than verdant markets where residents can buy petunias and arbor vitae.
Cabbage Hill Farm is an example of a spacious, well-maintained farm belonging to a retired couple, Jerome and Nancy Kohlberg, who developed it for their own pleasure and for public education. (Mr. Kohlberg was a founding partner of the investment firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company.)
Nestled on 225 acres in Mount Kisco, the farm is home to rare breeds of cattle, sheep, pigs and geese -- mostly from Britain. The Kohlbergs enlisted Annie M. Farrell, an expert in sustainable agriculture and ecologically friendly farm practices, to oversee the farm's day-to-day operations. Although a neighbor recently complained about a couple of peacocks that had wandered off the farm onto her roof, for the most part Cabbage Hill's neighbors never see the livestock because the property is so large.
But one culture clash, in the town of New Castle, was the impetus for the county's efforts to establish a farm board.
The dispute between the farmer, Thomas Cogger, and the town, which acted after a neighbor complained about Mr. Cogger's animals, eventually went to the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court. Last year the court upheld the town's enforcement of ordinances prohibiting horses from grazing within 100 feet of a wetlands and livestock from grazing within 250 feet of a property line.
Mr. Cogger said the town's actions forced him to move the cattle, horses, sheep and goats off his 11-acre farm in Chappaqua, a hamlet in the town of New Castle. Today, the only animals left are some ducks. "The town said the horse's hoofs would disturb the turf after heavy rains," Mr. Cogger said. "It's not real science. It's voodoo science, and it's a way to control your operation."
Had he been in an agricultural district, Mr. Cogger contended, the state's Department of Agriculture and Markets could have intervened on his behalf. And so began a crusade by Mr. Cogger and Ms. Farrell of Cabbage Hill Farm, who read about his situation in a local newspaper, to establish a farm board. The state law authorizing agricultural districts says local governments may not "unreasonably restrict or regulate farm operations" unless it can be demonstrated that "public health or safety is threatened." The state agency has the power to overturn a local ordinance after reviewing a case, but it is not at all clear that Mr. Cogger would have prevailed.
Mr. Gregg, the spokesman for the Department of Agriculture and Markets, called the state law establishing agricultural districts very powerful and said it had "protected farmers across the state from unreasonable restrictions." But he also said that farmers were still subject to state and Federal clean-water regulations and wetlands laws.
The impact of an agricultural district on long-established municipal ordinances is still a concern for some local officials. Michael B. Kaplowitz, a County Legislator who is chairman of the committee on the environment, said he strongly supported farmland preservation in theory, saying, "Open spaces are very soothing to the mind and spirit."
But Mr. Kaplowitz, a Democrat representing Somers, Yorktown and Croton-on-Hudson, said he needed answers on environmental impact before signing off on a farm board. "Are we in some perverse way watering down local protections?" he asked.
County and state officials argue, however, that a well-managed farm is less harmful to the environment than a subdivision of houses where septic tanks and lawn chemicals can cause problems. New York State and New York City both have programs to help farmers create natural buffer strips along wetlands and manure storage tanks to protect watershed areas. By establishing a farm board, Westchester will "have a framework for implementing 'best practices' on farms," Mr. Spano said, referring to environmentally sound agricultural techniques.
Establishing a farm board and possibly an agricultural district in Westchester, where zoning laws are both plentiful and painstakingly developed, could be a challenge, state officials say.
"We bring in two or three agricultural districts a year but in rural areas -- not urban areas where towns have code books the size of telephone books," Mr. Gregg said. "In Westchester there are a lot of layers of municipal government that all of a sudden would be subject to review. But a farmer in an urban county has as much of a right to be protected as a farmer in a rural county."
Town supervisors do not seem overly concerned about the possible curtailment of their precious home rule, however. Sy Globerman, Supervisor of North Salem, which has nurseries and horse farms, said that except for an ordinance about the disposal of manure, the town does not have laws affecting farms. "The town's happy to have them," he said. "They keep the land open, they hold down your school taxes and keep traffic down."
Clinton B. Smith, Supervisor of New Castle, where Mr. Cogger challenged the town ordinance, said the whole notion of home rule was vacuous in light of real estate development fueled by a thriving economy and rising land prices. "Home rule and local autonomy are things that everyone shouts from the rooftops about," he said, "but frequently we might not have as much autonomy as we think we do."
One of the biggest benefits of a farmland protection board would be the county's ability to take advantage of state money to buy development rights.
The state's Farmland Protection Program awards municipalities 75 percent of the cost to buy the rights, with the rest contributed either by the town where the farm is situated or by a farmland protection trust. In general, the state looks for commercially viable farms with clear lines of succession. The state funds come from the 1996 Clean Air-Clean Water Bond Act and the state's Environmental Protection Fund.
The county's decision to embrace farming is part of Mr. Spano's larger objective to preserve open space, and he has set aside $25 million to buy parcels of undeveloped land over five years.
Advocates of open space favor the county's efforts, saying it is important to have a mix of land uses, from parks to working farms. "Parks are wonderful and we all need them," said Caroline Niemczyk, a member of the board of the Westchester Land Trust, a nonprofit group. "But to have people who understand the care of animals and the cycle of seasons and the distinctions between types of soils is a remarkable thing in Westchester."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cabbage Hill Farm in Mount Kisco, owned by Jerome and Nancy Kohlberg, is home to Shetland cows. Betsy Stuart, who with her husband, Bob, owns Stuarts's Fruit Farm in Somers. (Photographs by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Annie M. Farrell directs operation of Cabbage Hill Farm in Mount Kisco. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. 20); Bob Stuart working at Stuart's Fruit Farm in Somers. His is the fifth generation of his family to work the land. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)(pg. 21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FARMERS; LAND USE POLICIES FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (89%); MAMMALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SUBURBS (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); ORDINANCES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX RELIEF (66%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (61%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: SPANO, ANDREW J (COUNTY EXEC); FODERARO, LISA W EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (55%); EDDIE GEORGE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



253 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: In the Region /New Jersey;
Insurance for Redevelopers of Polluted Sites

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
LAST year the state enacted the Brownfields and Contaminated Site Redemption Act, providing developers reimbursement of up to 75 percent of the cost of the completed cleanup if, among other things, the redevelopment project would generate new tax revenue exceeding the cleanup cost.
The measure also provides purchasers protection from private lawsuits related to past contamination problems and carries an assurance that the state will not sue once the site is cleaned according to the the state's now more flexible standards. 
 Still, industry professionals and developers said, redeveloping polluted sites could be like opening Pandora's box since the state's changes address neither the actual cost of doing the required cleanup nor protection from lawsuits if unknown contaminants are found.
One answer to both of these problems, say brokers and developers, is the use of private environmental insurance. The developers of two projects, one in Linden, the other in Edison, have taken out environmental insurance policies as they prepare to transform contaminated sites into mixed-used centers.
"The insurance allows all parties to distill what is a large unknown to a fixed cost and eliminate the potential of a huge loss due to liability," said Richard S. Greenberg. He is the president of Environmental Waste Management Associates, an environmental cleanup firm in Parsippany, who is involved in the cleanups of the Linden and Edison sites.
Insurance covering unexpected costs is based on an initial estimate of what it will cost to remediate known contaminants on the site. Any costs incurred over that estimate, less a deductible of 10 to 20 percent, depending on the insurer, are covered by the policy, which runs for the length of the cleanup. The policy can be tailored to protect buyers and sellers as well as lenders and tenants.
The policy can also be extended, or a separate policy can be written, to cover third-party liability issues, including property damage and the discovery of unknown pollutants. This coverage usually runs from one to five years, but can be extended to up to 10 or 15 years and can be put in place before during or after the cleanup.
Most insurers will issue policies only after the state approves a cleanup plan. But some will do so even without state approval if the consultant who did the estimate has a proven track record and will do the cleanup in accordance with state standards.
While insurers began offering such policies three years ago, they only started to be actively used in the last 18 months. Among the reasons, analysts say, is the scarcity of developable land. The state's efforts to return contaminated sites to productive use has increased developers' interest in such sites.
Moreover, they say, technological advances in assessing the cost of cleanups have made insurance companies more willing to underwrite such policies. As more policies are written, increasing competition among insurers has resulted in lower prices.
Major insurers offering the coverage include American International Group, or AIG, of Manhattan, Kemper Environmental of Princeton, a division of the Kemper Insurance Companies, and the Reliance National Insurance Company of Exton, Pa.
Environmental insurance is not inexpensive. Premiums for policies covering cost overruns generally range from 4 to 10 percent of the estimated cost of the cleanup, said Robin G. Kelliher, a vice president at the Morris Plains office of Willis Corron Corporation, an international insurance brokerage.
Among the factors influencing the premium amount are the amount of contamination and whether there is off-site migration of the contaminants through soil or groundwater. The minimum premium is $15,000, Ms. Kelliher said.
What buyers are paying for, said Joseph L. Boren, president of AIG Environmental, an affiliate of the giant insurer, is that the insurance "can help control the cleanup cost" and enable them to decide whether moving forward makes economic sense. Otherwise, he added, "if something is missed they could be left with tapioca."
NO one sees insurance as a panacea and even supporters say policies must be carefully read by buyers to make sure they are getting the coverage they need. Insurance also cannot be obtained for every deal, nor is it always necessary, Ms. Kelliher said, adding that for small cleanups of $25,000 or less insurance doesn't make sense.
State environmental officials consider the use of insurance complementary to their efforts to facilitate the reuse of the 10,000 contaminated sites in the state, down from about 20,000 in 1985. Of the remaining sites, 1,130 are brownfields, which the state defines as tainted, underutilized industrial or commercial sites.
"All of a sudden there's a ton of insurance products to deal with cost overruns," said Richard J. Gimello, assistant commissioner at the Site Remediation Program, part of the state's Department of Environmental Protection. "For projects with $1 million cleanups it sounds like a good idea because it gives developers a level of comfort that there is finality to their costs."
Such insurance played a role in the purchase earlier this month by Starwood Ceruzzi L.L.C. of 62 acres of the 188-acre city-owned Linden Airport along Route 1-9 in Linden. Part of the airport is used for small cargo and private planes.
Starwood Ceruzzi -- a joint venture of Ceruzzi Holdings of Fairfield, Conn. and Starwood Opportunity Fund V, an affiliate of Starwood Capital Group of Greenwich, Conn. -- intends to turn the 62 acres into a 650,000-square-foot mixed-use center, comprising a hotel, movie theater and retail shops. Financing for the $60-million project, the latest in a three decade effort to redevelop the airport, is coming from banks and investors.
Starwood Ceruzzi had 60 days to decide to redevelop the site and take on the cleanup associated with it. Mr. Greenberg of Environmental Waste Management Associates estimated the cost of cleaning the contaminants on the site and in the groundwater, which included chlorinated solvents left behind from the airport operation, at $1.2 million. To meet the partners' time frame the cleanup plan was designed without state approval, which saved time and will allow them to "hit the ground running," Mr. Greenberg said.
Louis Ceruzzi, president of Starwood Ceruzzi, added: "Whenever there is a significant cleanup we wring the risk out of it and protect our investors by buying insurance."
The partners paid a $100,000 premium for an insurance policy from Reliance that covers $1 million in unexpected costs. "The price of the policy was worthwhile when weighed against our ability to move ahead today with a $60 million project," Mr. Ceruzzi said. And since Mr. Greenberg told the developers that the cleanup would meet state standards, he said, "we will be able to avail ourselves of the state's reimbursement program and its assurance not to sue once the cleanup is complete."
The cleanup will be tied to the construction of the project, which is to start in 30 days. Completion is expected in 18 months, said Mr. Ceruzzi.
In Edison, Starwood Heller L.L.C. purchased environmental insurance to redevelop a 63-acre former Revlon complex, including the cosmetic giant's worldwide research and development center, near the intersection of Route 27 and Interstate 287.
Plans call for demolishing most of the vacant 750,000-square-foot former manufacturing plant and replacing it with 390,000 square feet of new and renovated industrial space, as well as building 150,000 square feet of retail space on 18 undeveloped acres.
Starwood Heller -- a joint venture between G. Heller Enterprises of Edgewater and the Starwood Capital Group -- also agreed to lease back to Revlon the 100,000-square-foot research component, as well as 75,000 square feet in an existing 250,000-square-foot office building. That four-story building will be renovated.
But for the $49 million purchase and redevelopment plan to proceed Revlon wanted to limit its exposure to cost overruns and legal liability involved in the $1 million cleanup of the site, said Scott D. Heller, executive vice president at G. Heller Enterprises. So, he said, the partners agreed to pay a premium of $100,000 to $200,000 to buy an $8 million insurance policy from AIG. The cleanup involves treating contaminants in the groundwater, including a variety of chemical solvents, Mr. Heller said.
"The insurance made cautious people more comfortable," Mr. Heller said, noting that without the policy Revlon would not have sold the property.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A developer plans to insure the cleanup of a 62-acre section of the Linden Airport for a mixed-use complex. (Nicole Bengiveno for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: RICHARD S GOLDSTEIN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LINDEN (NJ); EDISON (NJ); UNITED STATES (87%); NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BROWNFIELD SITES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LITIGATION (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (73%); PERSONAL INJURY LIABILITY INSURANCE (73%); INSURANCE POLICIES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (70%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE ROBIN G KELLIHER (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



254 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: State's Economy Under a Microscope

BYLINE: By PEGGY McCARTHY 

 BODY:
CONNECTICUT is still No. 1 in the nation in per capita wealth, but its population and jobs growth has been virtually stagnant over the past decade. Despite a strong economy and low unemployment, the state still has not recovered all of the jobs it lost during the recession earlier this decade.
At the same time, some Connecticut business leaders said that other regions of the country, such as northern New Jersey, have experienced rapid and dramatic growth spurts, giving Connecticut strong competition in per capita wealth and allowing those regions to compete better in the global and national economy. 
 With this as a backdrop, a group of business, political and government leaders, who don't always share the same positions, have joined together to help develop a competitive strategy for the state. Called the Connecticut Regional Institute for the 21st Century, the group has hired a strategic planning consultant to complete a $200,000, six-month study. It will be designed to assess the state in a broad context, as an economic entity in New England, the Northeast, and the global economy.
Institute members said the study will help assess whether improvements need to be made in the state's infrastructure and institutions, including transportation, higher education, and culture. The members predicted that the results of the study will show the need for economic cooperation among towns and regions of the state, and across state borders, something they admitted will be a hard sell in a state where home rule and local boundaries are so valued.
Nelson Griebel, chairman of the institute, pointed to a partnership among counties in North Carolina and South Carolina that has had some success. He said, for example, they avoided a damaging competition among area airports by assigning different aviation responsibilities to each.
Bruce A. Wilson, Bank Boston's president for Connecticut and western Massachusetts and a founder of the institute, said that there is no interest in dissolving political entities, just in getting cooperation among them.
"In order to compete in what is a rapidly emerging global economy, we need to think in more global terms," Mr. Wilson said. Otherwise, he added, the result would be stagnation and an absence of policies needed to "give us the ability to draw the kind of capital into development projects we need when competing with other regions of our own country and on a worldwide basis."
He said Connecticut's cities are key to any strategic plan. "Without our cities surviving, we don't survive economically," he said.
Mr. Wilson said the institute also wants to insure that "the region is competitive for those who are here already. Obviously, we want to encourage continuing investment, continuous growth, creating a climate that makes it conducive for businesses to be created, develop, and grow here."
Matthew Nemerson, president of the Greater New Haven Chamber of Commerce and a member of the institute, said while the economic growth of other regions, such as the Midwest, can be compared to rapid elevator rides, Connecticut's economy has been on a roller coaster that has landed virtually where it was at the beginning of the decade.
Mr. Nemerson said that while many Connecticut residents are comfortable, the future won't be as bright without planning and aggressive action.
"Clearly, Connecticut is very attractive to a more mature audience of talent," he said, referring to established workers who can afford to live in the state. But, he added, expensive land and housing are barriers for recent graduates of colleges and graduate schools. "We know we're not moving in young people from other parts of the country and we know we've got a drain of our own college kids."
Michael Gallis, the Charlotte-based strategic planning consultant hired by the institute, said Connecticut's situation is part of a phenomenon prevalent in much of the Northeast.
He said that 30 years ago, sociologists declared that the Northeast was the economic leader of the country. The result, he said, was that many in the Northeast took that fact for granted, while those in other regions of the country were motivated to aggressively work to grow.
And, with the fall of the Soviet Union and the onset of the global economy, he said, results elsewhere in the country have included a bustling port in Baltimore, massive office space expansion in Washington, and a booming Midwest capitalizing on the North American Free Trade Agreement and serving as a conduit for goods traveling between Canada and Mexico.
Other areas of the country have also taken steps to meet demands of a global economy, such as making their ports deeper, improving their rail capability to accommodate double-decker rail cars for freight, and expanding airports, Mr. Gallis said.
Mr. Gallis said his study will try to answer the following question: "Is there such a thing in economic terms as Connecticut?" Among other things, he will look at why businesses chose to locate in New Jersey instead of Connecticut and the role of colleges, universities and major hospitals, which he called "an increasingly important part of the region and are seldom brought to the table."
He said the study he is doing in Connecticut and a similar one he's doing for Rhode Island can help provide "a huge opportunity to create a New England-is-back movement."
He said "at this moment of change, there are enormous new opportunities at the same time the region is facing enormous new threats."
Members of the Institute visited Charlotte, N.C., last September to see results of the Charlotte Partnership, a regional initiative involving counties in both North Carolina and South Carolina, said Mr. Griebel, president of MacDermid Inc., a specialty chemicals company in Waterbury. He noted that "one example they use, which is good or bad depending on how you feel about professional sports, is they are convinced that the only reason they ended up with a National Football League franchise down there is they approached the N.F.L. as a region, not just the city of Charlotte." The region is one of Mr. Gallis's clients.
Mr. Nemerson said even organizations like his chamber of commerce are "dinosaurs" because they are geographically bounded institutions at a time that regionalization is seen as the key to economic survival. He said, for instance, instead of Bridgeport and New Haven competing and worrying about such issues as which city's baseball team, the New Haven Ravens or the Bridgeport Blue Fish, gets larger attendance, they should consider themselves part of one economic region.
He said members of the institute "realized when looking at the next 100 years we're all in this together. We're all little dots in the global map. We have to band together to be any kind of a destination that would be noticed."
The institute was started by executives of Bank Boston. Its members and funding sources include the state and city governments, Chambers of Commerce in Bridgeport, Hartford, New Haven, Norwalk, Stamford, and Waterbury, the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities, Connecticut Business and Industry Association, regional planning agencies and councils of government, economic development organizations, the New Haven Foundation, and several businesses. Mr. Gallis is expected to have a report completed by October.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A COMPARISON: Growing Wealth"
While Connecticut's population and job growth has remained flat, it's 1998 per capita income is the highest in the nation. Here's how the state compares with the other top four in the country.
 
Connecticut -- $37,598
New Jersey -- $33,937
Massachusetts -- $32,797
New York -- $31,734
Maryland -- $29,943
 
(Source: Department of Commerce)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT REGIONAL INSTITUTE FOR THE 21ST CENTURY BANK OF BOSTON DISTRIBUIDORA DE TITULOS E VALORES MOBILIARIOS SA (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT REGIONAL INSTITUTE FOR THE 21ST CENTURY

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CONSULTANTS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (74%); TRENDS (73%); AIRPORTS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: MCCARTHY, PEGGY MICHAEL GALLIS (58%); BRUCE A WILSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



255 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3071 words

HEADLINE: The Local Club Of Back When (Loud 'n' Dark) Is Right Now

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FRIED 

 BODY:
IN every version of the basic rock star myth, there is the Local Club Where They Got Their Start. The Beatles had the Cavern Club. Bruce Springsteen had the Stone Pony. Those are the early days, and in most versions of the story, it is not just an innocent time, but the rough-edged moment of first inspiration -- the moment that gives rise to another rock cliche: Sure, they're good now, but you should've seen them Back When.
The Pony is closed, but through the efforts of a few true believers who refuse to accept the economic realities of running a small rock club, Back When can be found right now at several other spots in New Jersey. 
 A young couple walks in to a darkened room and the temporary blindness is more than made up for by the overload of sound, which they can feel in their ribs as readily as they can hear it. The volume overpowers everything, including the otherwise bracing smell of beer and cigarettes. The couple turns the corner in the small, L-shaped room and just as they lay eyes on the band playing on the low, dimly lit stage, the sound and the musicians come to a dead stop.
For a moment, the room is completely, almost implausibly, silent. Then the crowd, standing, staring, filling half the room, begins to make some noise. They either clap, or if their hands are busy with a drink, shout out. The four sweaty musicians crank it up again, the crowd remains rapt, and the two newcomers glance at each other and nod. They've stumbled on to something. And for less than the price of a movie.
This is a scene often repeated at the venerable rock (and blues) dives of New Jersey: The Court Tavern in New Brunswick, the Brighton Bar in Long Branch, Maxwell's in Hoboken and the Stanhope House in downtown Stanhope.
There are many other bars featuring live music, but these are the ones that are in it for the long haul, presenting the best talent they can find -- whether on the way up, the way down, or just cruising.
Tony Pallagrosi, whose company Concerts East books many of the national touring acts in the area, calls them "irreplaceable."
"They're held together by blood, sweat, love and a few tears," Mr. Pallagrosi says. "It's people hanging in there for next to no money. It's absolutely a labor of love."
It doesn't always start out that way. Bob Albert was about to join the Jesuit Volunteer Corps (like the Peace Corps but harder to get into), when his father asked him to come home to New Brunswick to help with the bar, which has been in the family since 1961. Though reluctant to give up the plans he had made at Marquette University in Milwaukee, he came back in August 1981. Four months later, the Court Tavern was booking live bands.
The pleasure-and-pain principle of rock and roll -- tinnitus, unsteady income, sleep deprivation, and other forms of self-abuse -- comes to mind as Mr. Albert recounts the highs and lows of rock club life with equal enthusiasm.
The worst night: mid-80's a band that shall go nameless for the sake of family values totally destroyed the bathroom.
"The bass player blew up a urinal with an M-80," Mr. Albert recalled. "The cops were there 20 times. There were 80 kids on skateboards outside, there were fistfights."
A member of the opening band, the Serial Killers from Philadelphia, worked in sausage factory, he said, and brought condoms filled with sausage meat to throw into the audience. "The floor was slick as ice."
Mr. Albert remembers ruefully: "Dad knew most of the New Brunswick cops. He wasn't too happy."
He speaks with equal awe of the best night, which also comes immediately to mind. Local favorites, Crossfire Choir, were headed for the big time in the mid-80's. One Thursday night, they opened for Culture Club at an arena in Atlanta. By Saturday the band was home at the Court. "They blew the roof off the place," Mr. Albert said.
It takes only about 25 people in the back room of the Court Tavern basement to make something happen, though the room will hold several times that. Nirvana played the club. It was -- and occasionally still is, though unannounced -- the Back When place for New Jersey's own The Smithereens.
When asked about the economics of it, no one complains. "It's a flux business," says Jack Monahan, who was laid up in a hospital with a broken leg in Portland, Ore., when he decided his wandering days were over and he wanted to return to the Brighton Bar, where he had hung out as a high school rock musician.
"Making the rent is tough,' Mr. Monahan allows, referring to the financial obligations of his bosses, Greg Macolino and James Connelly, fellow musicians and friends of his.
But a return on the investment is not the main motivating factor. Mr, Macolino admitted that he had dreams, not daydreams, but night dreams, of owning the bar, which has been a launching pad for area bands since 1984. "I grew up in that place," he said.
After 11 years of booking three to four bands a night, five to seven nights a week, Mr. Monahan has no trouble picking his magical moment: the night he booked three funk legends -- T.M. Stevens, Bernie Worrell and Will Calhoun.
His worst night: "Two nights ago. I had a local band and an out-of-town band. The local band brought in one paid person. The out-of-town band brought in three they'd met at another bar across town."
On a recent Saturday night, Rare Form from Portland, Maine, spewed out a furious roar of spleen and post-modern metal to a crowd of about 20, not all of whom appeared to be aware of the slim but viable chance they might be seeing some kind of history in the making.
Mr. Monahan performs his poetry now instead of his music, and he describes booking as another creative outlet. "Once a month," he admitted, "I have a total crisis and want to quit."
Why doesn't he? "I don't know how to do anything else," he says.
From Mr. Pallagrosi's view, Mr. Monahan is also performing a service. "He's mining the street," he says
Doug Vizmuth, the Court Tavern booker for the past three years, spoke of the pressures of needing to bring in bands that bring in customers. The soundman, doormen, bartender all get paid, even if the band's cut of the door doesn't buy them a tank of gas.
"It's a battle," said Mr. Vizmuth. "It's never been easy."
A moment later, though, he says, "We've been lucky."
As a musician who first started playing the room in 1981, Mr. Vizmuth has seen the business rise and fall. These days, it's on the rise again.
He credits the club's longevity to having the best sound system in the state. Bryan Bruden, a former booker and disc jockey at WRSU, the Rutgers University station at 88.7 FM, explains why he loves the place -- even though they fired him.
"Any freak is welcome," said Mr. Bruden, "a dude in a three-piece suit on down."
The club that has done the best at making a reputation for itself has not been spared the economic roller coaster ride. Maxwell's of Hoboken has shut is doors twice since it began offering live music in 1978: once in the early 80's and again last year after a brief and disastrous incarnation as a microbrew pub. Now the club is back in the hands of two musicians, Steve Shelley (Sonic Youth), Dave Post (Amazing Incredibles) and Todd Abramson.
It's Mr. Abramson, the booker for more than a decade, who is credited by music people throughout the state with maintaining the international cachet for a room that is essentially, like the others, a black box.
Initially, the bands came because they were offered not only a meal at the restaurant, but a place to sleep in one of the railroad apartments upstairs. Bands don't stay there anymore, but every band in the club circuit wants to play the room anyway. And it is up to Mr. Abramson to decide who will get the honor, and, if need be, go after the acts he thinks belong there. How does he know what bands to book?
He speaks self-effacingly in his habitual just-woke-up-from a nap voice. "It's various things," Mr. Abramson says. "Including luck. I pay a little attention to a lot of things. The big thing is to have the bands' experience such that they want to come back."
Mr. Abramson traces the Glory Days of the business to a Bruce Springsteen song of the same name. The video for the song was filmed at Maxwell's in the mid-80's, and for a year, he says, the crowds; "were unreal. It didn't matter who was playing."
These days, with singles bars pulling crowds at the other end of town, the frequency with which Mr. Abramson asks himself why he keeps doing it is "a few times a night." But, he adds, "on a good night, I can still feel the rush I did when I was 13 or 14 and just discovering the pure adrenaline rush of great rock 'n roll."
The bands today, he insists, are often as good as their famous predecessors: R.E.M., Oasis, the Offspring, Korn, Lucinda Williams, Sonic Youth, Nirvana, Smashing Pumpkins, Shawn Colvin, the Wallflowers. Is it hard to choose his favorite nights? No: Jimmie Dale Gilmore, and the Cowsills.
"I was not a huge fan of the Cowsills and was not expecting anything, but it turned into one of those magical nights," Mr. Abramson says.
A bit of magic arrived at the Stanhope House on a recent Friday, when Little Sammy Davis, the upstate New York bluesman, surprised Big Mike and the Perpetrators in the middle of their second set. Playing harmonica through his nose, doing a solo rendition of the Air Force anthem, and gently coaxing Mike's band through some blues standards, Mr. Davis raised the crowd noise level in the room significantly.
Earlier in the night, a lone dancer, eyes shut, swayed in her floor-length neo-hippie skirt, while small groups stood with their drinks chattering by the bar opposite the stage. In between, guys with long hair and biker tattoos, and others who looked like they got home from work and quickly changed into their Friday-night jeans, leaned back at their tables and kept an eye on the band. With a little help from Sammy Davis, several couples eased onto the dance floor, some keeping apart, rock and roll style, some holding tight for a bit of the old time bump and grind.
"It's a juke joint without the rowdiness," says Ev Myers, the owner, quoting Robert Lockwood Jr., one of the blues giants who has graced the Stanhope stage. The list of blues alumni, from Pinetop Perkins and John Lee Hooker to Muddy Waters and Stevie Ray Vaughn, is easily as impressive as the list of rockers who have been through Maxwell's, and Mr. Myers appreciates the comparison.
"We think like Maxwell's does," he says.
In most ways, however, the Stanhope stands in contrast to the rock dives. The blues draws a steady crowd, and that takes away much of the pressure of keeping up with what's hip and viable among the new acts. And unlike his counterparts, Mr. Myers came to the bar band business relatively late, and with fewer of the financial worries that come with the trade, thanks to his retirement from a successful career in banking. Then there is the place itself.
Where most clubs seem almost to make a point of creating atmosphere out of nothing but beer and noise -- and perhaps some dimly lit paintings, or a crude rock and roll surrealist mural on the wall -- the Stanhope House is itself a landmark. Dating from 1790, it has been a stagecoach stop, general store, tavern, possibly a brothel, and has numbered Babe Ruth among its regular customers. The low, wood ceilings offer reasonable acoustics, wonderful atmosphere and a bit of a challenge for someone as tall as Big Mike. The stage is in the front, and the original front porch can be seen through the more recent but equally roadhouse-worthy stained glass windows.
Mr. Myers is a big man with a big, bright grin, and a loud, deep, Brooklyn voice. He and his wife Maureen sit at a table in the middle of a side room of the house that functions as their box office, stamping hands as people come in, chatting with regulars and new faces alike. The walls are covered with publicity photos.
He bought the club five years ago, in his mid-40's, because he wanted out of the high-pressure life and he loved the blues. "My proudest moments are when I have what I call the originators," Mr. Meyers says. "Homesick James was 91 years old when he played here. Pinetop Perkins, 88. Homeboy Edwards was young when he played here; he was 81."
His worst night? "No bad nights," he says with a laugh. He is confident enough in his performers to offer a guarantee. If you don't like the band after three songs, you can leave and have your money back. "Very few exercise that option," he says.
The bottom line for every nightspot is, of course, selling alcohol. Each of the rooms has seen a past life as an old man bar or a shot-and-beer joint. Maxwell's was named for the Maxwell House factory, now closed, across the street, which provided its share of the clientele. But the people running these businesses today have committed themselves to accomplishing something more than selling drinks. "I love live music," says Mr. Monahan of the Brighton Bar.
There are a few others who seem to have the long haul in mind. Scott Stamper of the Saint in Asbury Park has been at it five years, and sounds as dreamy as the rest when he recalls Joey Ramone's sold-out solo show in the summer of 1997. Andy Gesner books an average of one night a week at the Budapest Cocktail Lounge in New Brunswick, makes no money, and says, "Why would I want to stop?"
 
Don't Know the Lyrics? Don't Worry. Who Does?
ARE you staring at a gold-spangled green lame jersey you bought at a yard sale earlier this spring and wishing you had just the right place to show it off?
Are you dying to go out for a drink but too hot and sticky to think about changing out of your tank top and shorts?
Are you alone and thinking about people watching?
Are you and your gang looking for a place to get loud?
If you are over 21, or maybe 18 and ready for some soda, the rock clubs of New Jersey beckon. But first, some notes and suggestions for those venturing out for the first time, or the first time in a long while, based on observations over recent months:
Anyone concerned about not understanding the music should not give it too much thought. The lyrics are indecipherable to everyone, and 90's bands, by and large, recycle, in various combinations, pop-rock styles of the last 40 to 50 years. Or as Todd Abramson of Maxwell's put it, "We basically still have people on stage wailing away on guitars."
Familiarity with the bands is helpful but not necessary. Any original music group playing in the better clubs has at least something going for it -- amplification, for one -- and all the musicians in every band are up there because at one point or another, however long or short, they felt the tremor of rock inspiration move through their fingers or vocal chords. In the small clubs, they are certainly not doing it for the money.
Sets are generally short, from 30 to 45 minutes, and there are several bands each night. Bookers try to create harmonious intersections of bands and styles, which provides a useful framework of theme and variation.
The material varies wildly between and within sets, but careful listening is almost always rewarded with a few gems: a cool riff, a brilliant hook, a moment of pure undiluted attitude.
Careful listening is not required, of course, although it is suggested that everyone avail himself or herself of the opportunity to make noise -- from growling woofs to sharp squeals, with voices, beer bottles or hand claps -- not so much as to express appreciation for the musicians as simply because it is one of the few places where such behavior is perfectly acceptable, almost required.
Going to even the most expensive rock club is much cheaper than a sporting event and you don't have to wait for your team to score before you let loose. You don't even have to wait at all.
Enormously casual as a rule, clubs are still perfect places to wear an outlandish outfit of any kind. Or not. From the impossibly sexy to the utterly bland, everything works. Any hairstyle will pass. Any age will pass too. Youth culture victims of every era from the past 50 years are common.
Volume is a constant complaint, but is easily handled by ear plugs, either the commercial foam variety, or a bar napkin ripped in quarters, rolled into balls and stuffed gently into the ear canal. This goes a long way toward preventing ringing ear syndrome, and anyone worried about appearing wimpy will notice many of the sound men, bartenders and musicians doing the same. On the other hand, a night of people watching in most clubs will turn up someone standing calmly by the stage with his ear directly in front of an amplifier.
I N the past, the recorded music played between sets was as loud as the bands, but now there is generally a respite. One reason is that rock clubs are not places for dancing anymore. Dancing happens in the dance clubs, trendier places where many of the democratic principles mentioned above do not apply.
The physical movement in rock clubs is mostly heading bobbing, swaying and foot tapping. Certain styles of rock are still accompanied by certain physical responses -- punk music and moshing, ska and skanking -- but the crowds must be in sufficient numbers, and even then, the energy of a riled up crowd these days seems to implode more than explode.
There are not always many places to sit, though sitting on the floor, off the beaten track, is certainly acceptable.
For the seeker of summer entertainment, the quality of air-conditioning is often a consideration. The wall-mounted units in most clubs do a good job early in the night and a passable job as the crowd fills in. If the place is mobbed, everyone will sweat no matter what time of year, but this is, after all, something of the point.
Second-hand smoke is an issue, but what is a nightclub without wisps of gray curling across a beam of light?
Finally, there is no burst of energy in the world like a live band wailing in a small room. JONATHAN FRIED
 
TAKING THE PLUNGE?
HERE ARE THE DIVES
 
The Brighton Bar
121 Brighton Avenue, Long Branch
(732) 222-9684, come.to/the brighton
 
The Court Tavern
124 Church Street, New Brunswick,
(732) 545-7265
www.courttavern.com
 
Maxwell's
1039 Washington Street, Hoboken
(201) 653-1703
www.nj.com/maxwells.
 
The Stanhope House
45 Main Street, Stanhope
(973) 347-0458, www.stanhope-house.com.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Court Tavern, a venerable dive in New Brunswick, the pleasure-and-pain principle of operating a rock club prevails: tinnitus, unsteady income, sleep deprivation, and other forms of self-abuse. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Bubba Baucher sings (and writhes) as he and the guitarist Charlie Ordino of the group "Face Down" kick off a set at the Brighton Bar in Long Branch, which has been a launching pad for area bands since 1984. "It's a juke joint without the rowdiness," says E Myers, the owner of the Stanhope House, quoting Robert Lockwood Jr., one of the blues giants who has graced the stage there. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS DRINKING PLACES (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (87%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (87%); MUSIC (87%); JAZZ & BLUES (71%); BLINDNESS (68%); 

PERSON: SPRINGSTEEN, BRUCE; FRIED, JONATHAN BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



256 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1864 words

HEADLINE: Bumper Crop of Homes in Dutchess County

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD 

 BODY:
LIVING in Dutchess County is a long way from Bensonhurst, says Michael Boccia, but he's successfully making the transition.
"I can't get the same Italian bread and pastries we used to in Bensonhurst," said Mr. Boccia, a lawyer, "but they have Arthur Avenue bread here, which is pretty good. It's second best to Bensonhurst." 
 Mr. Boccia is now semiretired and working part time as a lawyer in Poughkeepsie. He and his wife, Jennie, moved to Poughkeepsie to be nearer their three children and seven grandchildren. Two of the couple's sons live in Dutchess, and one is across the Hudson River in Orange County.
"It was actually the kids who found the house for us," Mr. Boccia said, referring to the three-bedroom ranch the couple purchased at Vassar Oaks, a 150-home subdivision in Poughkeepsie.
Vassar Oaks is one of close to 40 new developments now under construction in the county, 18 of which have 20 or more units, according to Steven Domber, president of Prudential Serls Prime Properties, in La Grange.
"I've been involved in Dutchess since 1981," said Lenard Thylan, president of the Manhattan-based Thylan Associates, which is developing Vassar Oaks, "and the past three years is the strongest market I've ever seen."
There were 820 residential construction permits issued in 1998, compared to 584 in 1996, an increase of more than 40 percent, according to the Marist College Bureau of Economic Research, based in Poughkeepsie.
As a result of its relative proximity to New York City (Poughkeepsie is about an an hour and a half away on Metro-North's Hudson Line), coupled with the availability of land at more affordable prices, developers have hopscotched over Westchester and Putnam Counties to land in Dutchess.
"There's no more land in Westchester, " said Mr. Thylan. "And even if you found some, it would be so expensive, you could only afford to do a luxury development. And not everyone can afford a $750,000 house."
"Dutchess," said Ann Conroy, economic development zone coordinator for the county's Office of Economic Development, "is now in the process of a resurgence since the downsizing of I.B.M. The local economy has been recovering, and with it the residential market as well."
At one time, I.B.M. provided 60 percent of the county's manufacturing jobs and 20 percent of the overall jobs. Then, starting in the early 1990's, the company singlehandedly caused a regional recession when it laid off more than 20,000 employees in its Fishkill, Poughkeepsie and Kingston plants.
In the last few years, however, the county has seen a resurgence in its economic base. In 1998 it had 18,600 manufacturing jobs, compared to 17,500 in 1996, according to Marist College.
"We've been gaining new businesses," Ms. Conroy said. "and businesses in the county have been expanding. And even though I.B.M. laid people off, it continues to maintain a major presence in the county, with two plants, one in East Fishkill and one in Poughkeepsie, employing over 11,000 people."
I.B.M. has also announced plans to build a $700 million microchip facility in East Fishkill. Originally scheduled to open later this year, it has been delayed, Ms. Conroy said, and "should happen, we've been told, within the next 12 to 18 months." It is expected to employ 400 people.
Mr. Domber of Prudential Serls said his office is now marketing 26 new construction projects, ranging in price from just under $100,000 for a one-bedroom condominium to $600,000 for a four-bedroom colonial.
In addition to Vassar Oaks, Mr. Thylan's company also has a 150-unit town-house development called Cedar Valley nearing completion in Pawling, at the eastern side of the county and an hour and 40 minute commute to Grand Central, or an hour and seven minutes to White Plains, on the Upper Hudson Valley line. "People are coming here because there's no place where a family can afford to live in Manhattan, New Jersey, Long Island and Westchester," Mr. Thylan said.
Since opening sales in 1997, Mr. Thylan has sold 100 houses at Vassar Oaks and is now building its fifth phase, which consists of 26 houses. Of that, 13 have already been sold. The two- to three-bedroom homes are selling for $159,900 to $231,900.
Site clearing has begun on phase six, which will have 19 homes. "We're about one year ahead of where we thought we'd be," Mr. Thylan said.
His company is now completing Sparrow Ridge, a 116 town-house development in Kent in Putnam County. "Putnam is mostly wetland," Mr. Thylan said, "and while there's open land, it's not buildable."
That leaves Dutchess, which used to be considered too far for commuters. "Now people are willing to travel a little longer in order to have a house they can afford," Mr. Thylan said. "They don't want to be house poor."
Mr. Thylan said that the buyers at his two Dutchess projects run the gamut from young families to empty-nesters and retirees. "The Boccias are very typical of the empty-nester buyer," Mr. Thylan said. "They bought a ranch, which many of the older buyers prefer. We also have houses with the master bedroom on the ground floor, which is preferred by many people without children living at home They can close off the top floor when no one is using it. Young families prefer to have all the bedrooms on the second floor."
Out of the 100 buyers at Vassar Oaks so far, 20 percent are over 50 years old and half are between 35 and 50, Mr. Thylan said. The balance are between 20 and 34. "Some," according to Laurie Webber, sales manager for the development. "work locally at I.B.M. or they're attorneys with offices nearby." But 35 percent of them commute to Manhattan, she added.
It takes Carla Ribaudo-Ballon one and a half hours to commute from Vassar Oaks to her job as a purchasing assistant at the United Nations. She moved from Ossining, in Westchester, and she would have preferred staying there, but "I couldn't afford it," she said. "The taxes alone for a house were $6,000."
She also considered New Jersey, but thought the commute was harder from there than from Dutchess. "From here I take the Hudson line" of Metro-North "and I'm right downtown," Ms. Ribaudo-Ballon said. "At least it's an easy commute."
She and her husband, Luis, bought a three-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath home that now sells for $197,900 without customizing. "I thought it made more sense to get new construction," Ms. Ribaudo-Ballon said, "so there will be no headaches, at least for a long time."
The growing number of commuters willing to live an hour plus out of Manhattan is definitely a major factor in the resurgence of the residential market, Ms. Conroy said. "But that alone would not account for the increases in residential construction that we've seen. It had to also be accompanied with real growth in the local economy."
An example of that is a 361-unit apartment complex, called the Jefferson at Merritt Park that just started construction on a site across from where Gap Inc. is building a 2.57-million-square-foot distribution center in Fishkill. The new facility is expected to add 1,475 new jobs.
"The Gap's plans definitely made the site extremely attractive to us," said Andrew Kaye, regional managing partner for JPI, a developer, based in Irving, Tex. "We were also looking at I.B.M.'s plans to build their microchip facility nearby."
THIS is JPI's first project in Dutchess, Mr. Kaye said. "There was already a demonstrated success for a project like this with Avalon View," Mr. Kaye said, referring to a 288-unit rental project in Wappingers Falls, completed in 1993 by Avalon Bay Communities, which is based in Alexandria, Va. "We thought the time was right simply because of supply and demand. The county has seen healthy rent growth and high occupancy."
At Jefferson Park, one- to three-bedroom apartments will rent for $895 to $1,320. Mr. Kaye said the project would be marketed to corporate relocations, "professionals on a one- to two-year contracts," he explained. "And also empty-nesters, who are downsizing and might have a second home in Florida."
Jefferson at Merritt Park is expected to be completed by next February.
One of Dutchess's largest residential projects is also a microcosm, in many ways, of its recent history. Dalton Farm, a 540-unit development now under construction in the Town of Beekman, in the south-central part of the county, had its beginnings in 1988.
The original plan called for a mix of town houses and detached houses, selling for $148,000 to $280,000. A total of 120 homes were sold before the project went into foreclosure in 1994.
"A lot of factors conspired to cause the project's demise," said Michael Meyers, president of Farm Development, one of three local builders hired to turn the project around. The others are Creekview Homes and O'Donnel Development. "There were certain problems with the original design. Then, of course, there was the downturn of the real estate market."
The project has been entirely redesigned and is now envisioned as a complex of four discrete neighborhoods, one with two-bedroom town houses, priced from $140,000 to $205,000, and two with detached homes, with three to four bedrooms, priced from $202,500 to $300,000.
The fourth neighborhood is called the Commons, and it is designed to offer a feeling of life in a small village. "There's a village green, sidewalks and streetlights" Mr. Meyers explained. "The homes will be oriented toward the front with set-back garages to keep them out of sight." Its 82 three-bedroom houses will be priced from $162,500 to $182,500.
"The Commons is a first for Dutchess," Mr. Meyers said. "The village-type design has never been tried before. We only got the models up three months ago, and already we sold 18 homes."
Mr. Meyers is also a partner on another project that's a first for Dutchess, one that caters to the trade-up market. The Legends at the Beekman Country Club, in East Fishkill, is a development of 250 single-family homes to be built around a golf course. The first phase of 31 homes has begun construction.
Four-bedroom colonials and Victorians will be offered for $389,900 to $575,000. "This type of project just doesn't exist in the county now, where there's really no new trade-up development," said Mr. Domber of Prudential Serls, whose firm is marketing the project. Of the present trade-up market in new houses, Mr. Domber said: "It's really topped out at around the $275,000 to $300,000 range now."
Mr. Domber said that the time is ripe for a project like this, "due to Dutchess's stable employment and the fact that there's more affluence due to the stock market." With the golf-course project, he said, "People will now have a place to trade up if they decide to sell their home."
He expects the first phase to attract primarily the local buying market, "where there's tremendous pent-up demand," Mr. Domber said. "This is a seven- to eight-year project; eventually we plan to also draw from Westchester. We think we'll attract the commuter who finds that they can get the same house here as in Westchester, but for $150,000 less. Right now we think there's a market for higher-end homes in Dutchess, It's the next new thing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carpenters building a home in Vista section of Dalton Farm, below, a 540-unit development in the Town of Beekman in south-central Dutchess County. The development has four neighborhoods, with town houses, detached homes and a village-like Commons. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 1) Lenard Thylan at his Vassar Oaks project now rising in Poughkeepsie. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 4)
 
Map of lower New York State, highlighting Dutchess County.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (56%); MARIST COLLEGE (54%); MARIST COLLEGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARIST COLLEGE (54%); MARIST COLLEGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DUTCHESS COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BAKED GOODS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); FACTORY WORKERS (83%); LAYOFFS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); LAWYERS (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); TRENDS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); RECESSION (69%); BUILDING PERMITS (67%); 

PERSON: VIZARD, MARY MCALEER LENARD THYLAN (93%); VASSAR OAKS (76%); MICHAEL BOCCIA (70%); ANN CONROY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



257 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Old Charleston Navy Base With New Controversies

BYLINE: By LYN RIDDLE 

DATELINE: NORTH CHARLESTON, S.C.

 BODY:
SPRAWLING on a spit of land beside the Cooper River, the 1,600 acres of the now-closed Charleston Navy Base have come to represent both an enormously valuable development opportunity and a continuing focus of charges, countercharges and commercial and political maneuvering.
With three miles of riverfront, the former base represents hundreds of millions of dollars of real estate. It includes 21 first-rate piers and some 600 buildings, from large warehouses to a handsome colonial-style home that once housed admirals. 
 So far, 68 companies with a total of 4,200 workers have moved into two-thirds of the buildings. But very public controversies have surrounded the competing plans of a handful of companies and agencies for some of the prime facilities within the base.
Even selecting who would oversee the redevelopment of the former base was not easy. In most communities where a base is closed, the redevelopment agency is run by a city or county. But here, the Charleston Naval Complex Redevelopment Authority, which oversees the site, is run by the state.
The base is in this city, but just a few miles upriver from Charleston, which by size and tradition has been the most influential in the region. Three counties are close to the base, and all entities wanted a say in what would become of the land. So the counties, cities and state all have representatives on the redevelopment board.
"It is uniquely Charleston," said Jack A. Sprott, the director of the redevelopment agency. "There's a lot of jealousy between Charleston and North Charleston and the political folks said this was the best way to handle it, and it's worked pretty well. The only drawback is the city has zoning powers. We've had our lumps and bumps, but we're in lock step now."
Perhaps the sharpest controversy involved how the north end of the base would be used. The City of North Charleston wanted residential development. But the Charleston Naval Complex Redevelopment Authority wanted a cargo operation. The city eventually won. According to James C. Bryan, chairman of the authority, his agency expects to begin work on a waterfront park, commercial buildings and residences for North Charleston within a year.
The announcement in 1993 that the base would close was met with instant panic. "It was gloom and doom all over Charleston," said Mr. Sprott. But in the six years since, Mr. Sprott said, community leaders have managed to regain the 25,000 jobs lost when the base closed with the arrival of new businesses throughout the region, while the redevelopment agency continues to foster commercial operations at the former naval complex.
In a recent visit to the site, William J. Cassidy Jr., deputy assistant secretary of the Navy, called the redevelopment authority "a model for the country" in base reuse, according to Mr. Sprott.
The companies that set up shop at the former base perform a wide range of services, from repairing ships to preparing small boats for overseas shipment.
The Navy shipyard here was established in 1902. During World War II it grew to become the Navy's third largest home port, behind Norfolk and San Diego. When closing was announced in 1993, 80 ships and submarines were based at North Charleston. The Navy turned the base over to the redevelopment agency in April 1996, but the final land conveyance has not yet taken place.
MR. Sprott said his agency put off those negotiations, preferring to find tenants first. The first was Charleston Marine Manufacturing, a consortium of area businesses that leased the largest drydock to repair ships. Ten government operations occupy space at the base as well, including the Border Patrol, the Postal Service and the state's National Guard. Soon, the South Carolina State Ports Authority plans to operate a cargo facility here, a plan that has resulted in a fair share of controversy.
Initially, the state's Ports Authority, which operates four terminals in the Charleston area, wanted to set up a break-bulk facility on the northern tip of the base.
But the City of North Charleston had other plans for the site. Mayor Keith Summey said he wanted the area for residences, businesses and a waterfront park. The base includes the only waterfront in the city. Plus, he said, the site abuts a residential area.
"It had," said Mr. Sprott, "been a break-bulk facility for 100 years and we thought that was the best use. But the last thing we wanted was a controversy with the city."
He worked out a deal to lease land at the center of the base to the Ports Authority, leaving the north end for North Charleston. The north end is now the subject of a lawsuit by Braswell Shipyard, which contends that the redevelopment authority did not execute an agreed-upon sublease there. Mr. Sprott declined to comment on the matter.
In still another dispute, Carolina Marine Handling, one of the base's current tenants, has charged that the agency had improperly signed leases and has not been diligent in protecting assets left behind by the Navy. When the military closes a facility, more than just buildings are left behind. Pencils are even left in holders, said James A. Kenney, a former chief of staff at the base.
H. R. Stender, president of Carolina Marine Handling, said he had applied to lease the north end of the base with virtually the same plan originally espoused by the Ports Authority, but was turned down. Now, he said, the authority will soon move onto the pier in the central part of the base that he had been using for his break-bulk operation, whose lease was canceled.
"One billion dollars is being chipped and diced and given out to friends of the former Governor, David Beasley," said Mr. Stender, whose family has operated stevedoring companies in the Charleston area for three generations.
He also maintains that the redevelopment agency and the Ports Authority have conspired to drive him out of business, using his own business plan, which he sent to the agency when he applied for the land at the north end of the base. The regional state legislative delegation has looked into his claims but found them groundless. But four of its 20 members have asked for a review by the state's Legislative Audit Council, which is scheduled to begin its study later this year.
The State Law Enforcement Division has turned over its report on Mr. Stender's allegations to the State Attorney General but the results have not been released.
Mr. Sprott calls Mr. Stender's claims "garbage."
"We've done more for him than anybody," Mr. Sprott said. "We had a fair competition and we did not pick him. Now he's irate."
Mr. Stender operated a break-bulk facility, loading frozen chicken on ships destined for Russia, up until a few months ago on one of the base's prime piers, called Zulu. But his operation dwindled as word spread that the company he leased from -- Charleston Shipbuilders -- was out of business and that that company's lease would be canceled. Charleston Shipbuilders intended to overhaul Navy ships to supply electricity to rural areas in South America, but the one ship it completed was not able to supply power adequately.
Mr. Sprott said the Zulu Pier would be used by the Ports Authority, but Mr. Stender was offered the use of another pier.
Byron Miller, a spokesman for the Ports Authority, said that its terminals were public "and anybody and everybody can come and operate there."
He said that his agency had been interested in operating another break-bulk terminal for years. He also rejected Mr. Stender's charges of political favoritism.
Mr. Sprott said the next step in redevelopment would be to negotiate the cleanup of the property and get the land deeded to his agency. The agency wants not just to occupy existing buildings, but to build new ones.
Now considering leasing space on the base is a company that wants to convert the former Navy hospital and a number of smaller buildings into a film studio, at a cost of $30 million. The company would rent out space for the production of commercials, television shows and feature films.
The company, called Carolopolis, is making "a serious effort to develop a motion picture studio in the state," said Isabel Hill, director of the South Carolina Film Office.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cranes service a ship at former Charleston Navy Base, left, on Cooper River. The admiral's house, below, is one of 600 buildings, including many large warehouses, in the 1,600-acre complex, which also has 21 first-rate piers. (Photographs by Lyn Riddle for The New York Times)
 
Map of South Carolina, highlighting Charleston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CHARLESTON NAVAL COMPLEX REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHARLESTON NAVAL COMPLEX REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CHARLESTON (SC); CHARLESTON (SC); SOUTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; NAVIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REAL ESTATE ARMED FORCES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NAVIES (90%); MILITARY BASES (89%); RIVERS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (69%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: RIDDLE, LYN JACK A SPROTT (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



258 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 19; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE;
A Walk To the Past Demands Good Shoes

BYLINE: By FRED B. ADELSON 

 BODY:
"MOST people experience architecture at 30 m.p.h.," the architect Robert Venturi has often said. Reading a building at 3 m.p.h. on a walking tour offers an ideal opportunity for both social storytelling and esthetic appreciation. From the sidewalk, history is within arm's reach.
With an impressive variety of architectural styles, New Jersey can be a real show-off, offering guided tours, spring through early fall. From Warren County to Cape May County, these architectural experiences spotlight the man-made environment of daily life. 
 Some are single, one-day events. The New Jersey Historical Society will explore three centuries of building along Washington and Military Parks in Newark in a public tour on June 15, but it is willing to repeat the walk for groups of 10 or more. The Manhattan-based Adventure on a Shoestring has presented many programs in New Jersey over 36 years; in the coming weeks, it will examine the evolution of the Ironbound district of Newark on June 19 and Hoboken on July 10. Preservation New Jersey, a Trenton organization that promotes awareness of the state's historical sites, plans an intriguing tour of Ocean Grove and Asbury Park, neighboring communities that demonstrate profound differences in architectural history, city planning and preservation, on Sept. 25.
Architectural tours are often more than educational; at $5 to $13 a ticket, they can provide revenue for research and restoration. From July 8 to Sept. 2, the Long Beach Island Historic Preservation Committee offers weekly three-hour trolley tours of historic sites on the island that have raised $4,000 in the last four years. On the opposite side of the state, every Saturday (weather permitting) until Oct. 30, Help Our Preservation Effort conducts 90-minute guided walking tours of the limestone buildings constructed by Moravians who settled in Hope Township in 1769. More than two dozen extant structures reveal the legacy of a planned community built in the German vernacular mode, and "we need to do a lot of walking to pay for Long House," which the group bought last year, said Mio French, its vice president.
The Foundation for Architecture presents about 400 events a year in Philadelphia and its environs, including two tours in New Jersey, guided walks along Kings Highway in Haddonfield. One of them, "Historic Haddonfield," covers only a few suburban blocks but several centuries of architectural styles, from Georgian to Beaux-Arts (the Borough Hall).
On a Saturday afternoon in May, Deborah Troemner, a volunteer guide who was one of the tour's creators, began the "Historic Haddonfield" walk with a discussion of the Sarah Hopkins House, and one of the oldest residences in the town. Like many historic Haddonfield homes, it is not at its original site; moving was more economical than rebuilding.
In talking about the Revolutionary War, which the Quakers referred to as "the commotion," Ms. Troemner used modern real estate jargon to emphasize that Haddonfield had "location, location, location." The town was strategically positioned between Burlington and Salem, two major settlements in South Jersey. Indian King Tavern, the most significant historic property discussed on the tour, was Haddonfield's premier 18th-century establishment. It became the state's first official historic site in 1903.
Old buildings are merely a picturesque backdrop in Haddonfield, but in Cape May architecture is big business. The Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts has aggressively organized tours to promote the city's substantial concentration of Victorian-era frame buildings, as well as Federal, Craftsman and even post-modern buildings. (A house on Hughes Street proudly announces, "Built 1986.") The town's compact layout encourages walking along the veranda-rich residential streets.
Wearing a jaunty bow tie and a straw boater, Ray Maher, a guide for the arts center, led an informative tour around the eastern end of Cape May's Historic District on a weekday in May. The nearly two-hour walk began at the Stick Style guardhouse, which originally stood in Fairmount Park in Philadelphia but is now an information booth on the Washington Street Mall. Mr. Maher explained that Cape May, one of the nation's oldest seaside resorts and a 19th-century summer retreat for several Presidents, experienced numerous fires, including one that destroyed about 35 acres of prime real estate at the height of its popularity in 1878. Since "everybody who was anybody in the United States came to Cape May for the summer," the town was immediately rebuilt, he said.
Carpenters, not architects, were responsible for most of the houses in Cape May, and those craftsmen with access to pattern books were only too willing to demonstrate their virtuosity at using a saw. With the sun hitting the gingerbread trim, Mr. Maher pointed out how the shadows cast by the applied wooden decoration "give more bang for the buck." He also brought to the group's attention several houses that had the amenity of a small bathroom on stilts added on the side. Nineteenth-century advertisements urged people "to trade the path for the bath," Mr. Maher said.
The growing popularity of the automobile in the 1920's led to the decline of Cape May when people began driving to resorts up the shore, but in the 1950's the family car, with its tail fins, contributed to the development of the Wildwoods and their motels with eye-catching neon signs along Atlantic and Ocean Avenues. Just as Victoriana defines Cape May, doo-wop is Wildwood.
Fortunately, the Bobby Rydell-era buildings still retain much of their authenticity. From the sleek lines and chrome of Ernie's Diner, manufactured by Mountain View Diners of Singac, Passaic County, to the sharp angles of the Casa Bahama motel, with its fiberglass palm trees at poolside, the man-made landscape nostalgically evokes those "wild, wild Wildwood days." Some elements of New Jersey's rich heritage may not be monuments in the history of architecture, but as social documentation they provide a fascinating and tangible expression of culture from bygone days.
 
Where to Start
 
ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING Ironbound section of Newark. Saturday. Hoboken Tour. July 10. Information; (212) 265-2663.
 
FOUNDATION FOR ARCHITECTURE "Historic Haddonfield." July 17 at 2 P.M.; Aug. 18 at 6 P.M.; Oct. 10 at 2 P.M. Tickets: $7; $6 for children and students. 343 Kings Highway East, Haddonfield. "Victorian Haddonfield." June 23 at 6 P.M.; Aug. 28 and Oct. 2 at 2 P.M. Tickets: $7; $6 for children and students. Meet at Fannie Mae Candy Store, 9 Kings Highway West, Haddonfield. (215) 569-3187.
 
FRIENDS OF THE PHYSICK ESTATE Cape May house tour. July 22, 1 to 3 P.M. Tickets: $10; $5 for children. Tickets may be bought in advance at the Emlen Physick Estate, 1048 Washington Street, Cape May, or on the day of the tour at the Washington Street Mall Information Booth, Ocean Street, Cape May. (609) 884-5404.
 
HISTORIC MORRIS VISITORS CENTER Tours of Historic Morristown. Through Sept. 4. Saturdays at 4 P.M. Reservations required. Tickets: $10; free for children. Meet at the Center, 6 Court Street, Morristown. (973) 631-5151.
 
HISTORIC VILLAGE OF HOPE Through Oct. 31. Saturdays at 10 A.M. Tickets: $6. Meet at the Inn at Millrace Pond, Route 519, Hope. (908) 459-9177.
 
LONG BEACH ISLAND HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMITTEE Harvey Cedars. July 8, Aug. 12 and 26. Beach Haven. July 15 and Aug. 12. Ship Bottom. July 22. Barnegat Light. July 27 and Aug. 19. Surf City. Aug. 5. Brant Beach to Spray Beach. Sept. 2. Tickets: $12, may be purchased at the Chamber of Commerce, 265 West 9th Street, Ship Bottom. (609) 494-1263.
 
MID-ATLANTIC CENTER FOR THE ARTS A variety of tours through Sept. 9, including "All Victorians Great and Small," "Great Estates of Cape May," "Doo-Wop 1950's Trolley Tour of the Wildwoods," "Inns and Outs of Cape May," and Historic District walking and trolley tours. All tickets may be purchased at the Washington Street Mall Information Booth, Ocean Street, Cape May. Schedules and information; (609) 884-5404.
 
NEW JERSEY HISTORICAL SOCIETY "Culture and Commitment: Newark's Cultural District." Tuesday, 1 to 2 P.M. Free; reservations required. Meet at Gateway Center on Mulberry Street, Newark. "Newark's Ironbound: Walk and Eat Your Way Around the Neighborhood." Sept. 25. Free; reservations required. (973) 596-8500.
 
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY ORANGE KEY TOUR Tours of Princeton campus. Call for schedule. Maclean House, Princeton University. (609) 258-3603.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Where Victoriana reigns, in all its manifestations: participants in one of the Cape May architectural tours sponsored by the Mid-Atlantic Arts Center. Walks throughout the state trace its development from the Revolution to the very recent past. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times); Ernie's Diner in Wildwood, circa 1953, an attraction on the doo-wop tour.
 
Map of New Jersey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MMM (NYSE) (91%); MMM (LSE) (91%); MMM (FRA) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL AND ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS322233 STATIONERY, TABLET, AND RELATED PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (91%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (91%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: 3M CO (91%); NEW JERSEY HISTORICAL SOCIETY (57%); NEW JERSEY HISTORICAL SOCIETY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY HISTORICAL SOCIETY (57%); NEW JERSEY HISTORICAL SOCIETY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; WALKING HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (75%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CITIES (70%); 

PERSON: ADELSON, FRED B ROBERT VENTURI (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



259 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 20; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK/THEATER;
Feeling a Bit Snubbed? New Jersey at the Tonys

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
IT started with a smile and a wave to the cameras, for all those people, millions of them, out there in the dark. So what if it was really an act of disrespect to the greatest American actress of all?
And it ended with the sort of dread omission that mortifies producers and disappoints theatergoers. For almost three hours in between, last Sunday's Tony Awards telecasts, produced to show off Broadway at its best, was, as one television reviewer dubbed it, the "Death of an Awards Show." 
 The woman who smiled and waved was Uta Hagen, the first lady of the theater, whose performance in "Collected Stories" at the George Street Playhouse in New Brunswick this season, after an Off Broadway run, was an object lesson on how many more truths can be exposed in a single role, given time. But Ms. Hagen had already received her special Tony for lifetime achievement in the theater -- off camera. Giving thanks, she spoke (yes, off camera) of her "destiny to answer my calling to a noble art, the theater, the stage."
"It's sad to think our destinies are now ruled by economics," she said. "I want to throw out a battle cry to those who think as I do: that this transcendental art will become insignificant only as we allow it to do so."
And then the cameras rolled just in time to capture Ms. Hagen, smiling and waving from the audience, for perhaps 32 seconds, thus relegating to insignificance her battle cry from the soul. Talk about rude.
The fleeting glimpse of Ms. Hagen and Ricardo Khan's delirious acceptance of the award for outstanding regional theater on behalf of Crossroads in New Brunswick, where he is the artistic director, were both seen during the first hour, on PBS. New Jersey theater figured prominently in the Tony race in what television deems to be the more important categories. But choreographers, orchestrators, lighting, costume and scenic designers, directors of plays and musicals, book writers of musicals, and composers and lyricists were all consigned to PBS.
The important Tonys were handed out during the second and third hours, on CBS, which had an estimated audience of 6,860,000 on Sunday, down from the last two years. Productions emanating from New Jersey -- "It Ain't Nothin' but the Blues" and "Electra," both co-produced by Eric Krebs of Highland Park -- were up for seven Tonys. Best book was not won by "Blues," which came from Crossroads. Best revival was not "Electra," transferred to Broadway intact from the McCarter Theater in Princeton.
In the two prime hours, Mr. Krebs's productions lost all seven. But this is a year of few real winners, one that represented an impoverished Broadway season for new American plays and new musicals of any stripe. And the television show that is meant to celebrate the winners was the biggest loser of all, consisting of monumental gaffes and slurs -- to Off Broadway, in particular. The show was misconceived, miscalculated, underrehearsed and amateurishly executed. What a dubious accomplishment to make the self-possessed Kevin Kline, a presenter, appear helpless.
The last-minute omission of a number from "Blues" was the centerpiece of theater outrage all week. The television show was running overtime. Never mind that Isabelle Stevenson, chairwoman of the American Theater Wing, another lifetime achievement winner, went on interminably. Or that Barry and Fran Weissler, two of the six producers of "Annie Get Your Gun" (best revival of a musical) did a coy routine, unconvincingly and brashly displaying humility. Those indomitable theater zealots who lasted two CBS hours could add many more indignities; the list is very long.
So Mr. Krebs and all the other "Blues" producers may be consoled by the likelihood that, given the grim circumstances, few viewers would have been awake to see the number anyway.
Y ET every member of the "Blues" company could well have cause for singing the real lowdown blues of dashed hopes and broken hearts.
On Thursday, four days after Tony fallout and the investigation of legal action by the "Blues" producers, and the morning after the "Blues" cast appeared on David Letterman's "Late Show" to resounding cheers, Mr. Krebs said: "Letterman was terrific and useful; his audience is four million to five million. But if 1 out of 20 people watching the Tonys bought tickets, it would fill our show for over a year."
So goes the astounding numbers game of television versus live theater. Mr. Krebs is a gentleman and a businessman, and as a producer he must be a politician; therefore, he said he felt "just dandy." Ms. Hagen, with nothing to lose, no longer needs to play games. What she must be thinking would surely outroar the invective of Martha, the role she created in "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?"
"Blues" is holding on at the box office. Yet "You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown," a revival that won two Tonys and did have a number performed on the television show, and "Not About Nightingales," a play that won one Tony, are closing today. Perhaps the clout of a misguided awards system is on a downhill slide. And it's not just ratings.
Everything -- truly everything -- about the Tonys needs honest-to-theater re-evaluation. And the regional theater, which flourishes esthetically in New Jersey as well as nationwide, must not look to Broadway as a goal, as a lure or for any validation of any kind. Regional theater lives for and should be supported by its homegrown community. All the rest is vapidity.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: What you didn't see on television: Uta Hagen accepting, above. What you saw if you watched PBS: Ricardo Khan of Crossroads. (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; TONY AWARDS (THEATER AWARDS); AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (92%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (76%); WRITERS (74%); CHOREOGRAPHY (70%); SONG WRITING (66%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (66%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN UTA THYRA HAGEN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



260 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
Ties That Bind New Jersey Begin at the Hudson River

BYLINE: By Iver Peterson; Iver Peterson reports from New Jersey for The New York Times.

DATELINE: PRINCETON

 BODY:
For once, a tax even a Democrat can hate.
After squabbling over taxes and spending for years, New Jersey's Republicans and Democrats are as one when it comes to trying to force Gov. George Pataki of New York to give New Jersey commuters the same commuter tax relief he wants to give New York State residents who work in New York City. 
 Mr. Pataki's unequal treatment of people similarly situated, to quote the lawyers, is being committed by a New Yorker who once called himself "a Whitman Republican" when being like the New Jersey governor was a plus. Now Mr. Pataki is on one side of the fence and Governor Whitman, the Republican legislative majority, the Democratic minority and commuters down to the last straggler on the 8:24 out of Rahway are on the other side, fighting as one.
"Nothing unites New Jerseyans, Democrats and Republicans alike, more than being treated unfairly by New Yorkers," said Raul (Rudy) Garcia, the Democratic mayor of Union City who is also a member of the Assembly.
In Jersey City, Mayor Bret Schundler, a Republican, collected the signatures of 300 commuters, fodder for a class-action suit, in the days after Mr. Pataki announced his move, and none of the signers spoke of politics.
"The bottom line is that this is not partisan," Mr. Schundler said.
It is on the other side of the river, since Governor Pataki hopes giving tax relief to New Yorker commuters will win votes for Republicans next year, even if the statewide ballot in New York may end up being headed by Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, who is suing to stop his fellow Republican Pataki from ending the tax.
So the tax that has produced Republican disunity across the Hudson has produced unity among Republicans and Democrats on this side. But that has not meant there were not opportunities for headline grabbing by members of each party. When Governor Pataki signed the in-state tax repeal nearly three weeks ago, Mayor Schundler hastened down to the bulkhead at Exchange Place in Jersey City to cock a snoot at New York by dumping tea (Lipton) into the Hudson, and then announcing that only a lawsuit could protect his city's more than 25,000 commuters.
Democrats made similarly defiant noises, including, strangely, the cry of "no taxation without representation," as if paying a commuter tax ever purchased a New York ballot. Mr. Garcia even urged New Jerseyans to "stop rewarding rudeness" by boycotting New York. "Fuhgeddaboutit the Yankees and the Mets," he said in a news release, having a little fun. "Skip 'NYPD Blue' and tune into 'The Sopranos'."
In fact, as Mr. Garcia pointed out, the border war with New York has, like all wars, made profiteers of a kind out of the old waterfront cities that Mr. Garcia and Mr. Schundler lead. Each has received expensive new waterfront developments thanks to investment money fleeing the high rents and taxes of New York. And whatever the commuter tax bite, each benefits from the tens of thousands of resident commuters who get their pay from New York City employers.
"Quite honestly, the commuter tax is one of the things that has created jobs and economic development in our part of New Jersey," Mr. Garcia said. "We have a friendlier tax system than New York on several levels, so in that sense, New York has already helped us. But if they want to play politics with this tax and give New York residents a break, they are going to have to give it to New Jerseyans too."
The New Jersey Legislature has appropriated money and hired lawyers to sue Governor Pataki and New York State on behalf of the estimated 240,000 New Jersey commuters who pay about $110 million in taxes to New York City . Mayor Schundler, who is holding back on bringing his own suit while the state's lawyers make their case, maintains that the anti-Pataki position is such a constitutional lock that there is hardly any doubt about the outcome.
"This is such an open-and-shut case that if we don't seem excited about it it's because we're so confident we will win," Mr. Schundler said. All of the suits against Mr. Pataki's measure -- from New Jersey, Connecticut and Mayor Giuliani as well as a private suit -- have been combined before Judge Barry Crozier of the New York State Supreme Court.
Judge Crozier has said that he would rule by July 1, when the commuter tax is scheduled to cease for New York state residents. It is worth remembering that the matter is not about the legality of the commuter tax -- that was settled in favor of the tax, and against commuters, years ago. The New Jersey and Connecticut lawyers only want the court to force Mr. Pataki to give their commuters the same tax break he is trying to gain for his own residents.
And if Judge Crozier sides with his governor, and the appeals also go against the out-of-staters? Will the Democrats then wish they had not been quite so cozy with the Republicans on the commuter tax? After all, New Jersey has big United State Senate race coming up, and by making nice with the Republicans this year, the Democrats may be giving up a chance to make nasty next year about "who lost on the commuter tax."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iver Peterson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE SUPREME COURT (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE SUPREME COURT (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; COMMUTING US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LITIGATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICS (89%); MAYORS (89%); TAX LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); PETERSON, IVER RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



261 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Not Ready To Press The Inflation Panic Button

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
THE bombs stopped falling on Kosovo last week. Japan's economy recorded its first growth in 18 months in the first quarter. Germany's industrial output is quickening, and its unemployment rate is falling. Yet the markets persist in brooding about the prospect of a modest hike in interest rates by the Federal Reserve.
Recent price moves suggest that the bond market is convinced the Fed will raise rates. Partly in sympathy, stock measures like the Dow Jones industrial average have slipped 5 percent or more from their peaks. 
 It is not clear, however, that an increase in interest rates would be unremittingly bad for stocks. Robert Heisterberg, a senior vice president and chairman of the asset allocation committee of Alliance Capital Management, took some time last week to discuss that proposition. Here are some excerpts:
 
Q. Market interest rates have risen much more sharply from their troughs than they did in 1994 and 1997, the last two periods when the Fed tightened monetary policy. Has the increase been justified?
 
A. The bond market overshot by about 50 basis points on the downside last fall, because everything conspired to create a set of expectations that, in a medium-term sense, led people to believe we were about to enter a recession, if not a depression.
In terms of cyclical factors, I would trace the rise we have seen from a level of about 5 percent or 5.25 percent on the 30-year Treasury bond. That backup has been warranted. The American economy has continued to grow, and now we are seeing signs of growth elsewhere.
The news out of Japan is important. If they can sustain positive economic growth, it will do a lot for the Asian region and for the world economy. If others pitch in, it means America doesn't have to as much.
 
Q. In response to the crisis last year, the Fed cut short-term interest rates by three-quarters of a percentage point in a matter of weeks. Will it take back all of those cuts?
 
A. I would be surprised if they will be required to take back all of the 75 basis points they eased last year. However, I am quite confident they will take back one-quarter of a percentage point. At this point, it's a 50-50 proposition they will raise rates by another one-quarter of a point after that.
 
Q. Why do you think they will stop short of taking more dramatic action?
 
A. The fundamentals of inflation are still performing quite well. Inflation becomes a problem when it begins to influence decisions. When I start to see companies and consumers making decisions based on concern over rising prices, that is when I start to get concerned. I haven't seen that. Also, I think we will get some slowing in the economy during the second half of the year.
 
Q. Does the increase in interest rates we have seen, and may yet see, pose a significant threat to stocks?
 
A. Valuation levels right now are fairly lofty, and that makes stocks more vulnerable. But to say that interest rates are going to unglue this market is probably an overstatement. To make a strong negative case for stocks relative to interest rates, you would have to see rates go up considerably more than they have.
 
Q. Money is getting drained out of stocks that are viewed to be vulnerable to rising interest rates, like technology and financial services. But some of these companies performed quite nicely when rates were higher than they are now. What is your view?
 
A. A resumption of growth outside the United States has to be good news for multinationals and a number of technology companies, as well as some less exotic machinery manufacturers and capital goods makers. A good number of these companies were hurt by contraction in consumption spending in Latin America and Asia, and some were just shut off by the recession outside the United States, especially in the Far East.
The traditional view is that rising interest rates hurt banks and financial stocks. But most of these companies, if you study them closely, have been hell-bent on generating fee income, which is not sensitive to interest rates at all. Generally speaking, we think the valuations in this area reflect the old view about their vulnerability to interest rates, and not the new reality.
 
Q. Has the rise in interest rates caused you to alter your model portfolio?
 
A. In terms of allocation, we are closer to our long-term benchmarks now than we were a few months ago, but that is because, due to superior performance, we took some money out of the equity market.
Our allocation for growth-investor accounts is about 70 percent in equities, about 24 percent in bonds and the remainder in cash. We are modestly overweighted internationally, and our domestic equity positions are skewed toward a somewhat broader list of stocks than the large-cap growth stocks that have been driving the market. The market has broadened dramatically, and we have had to respond to that.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Heisterberg

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (79%); KOSOVO (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (79%); KOSOVO (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; HEISTERBERG, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



262 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Dick Morris, Say Hello To Mr. Wilde

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

 BODY:
WHEN the eminent politician Sir Robert Chiltern worries, he bites his lip, and for most of "An Ideal Husband," the Oscar Wilde play that comes to the screen this week , he has plenty to worry about. He is threatened with exposure for having sold a government secret to a stock exchange speculator.
The deed, done years before the curtain rises, laid the foundation for Sir Robert's wealth and career as well as for a witty play. Exposure now, at the height of his prospects, would ruin his reputation and destroy his ambitions. 
 A century after the debut of "An Ideal Husband," Wilde's portrait of a successful politician trying to slip out of humiliation retains a certain currency, while the portrait of his wife seems like a daguerreotype that has faded from fashion.
Sir Robert's readiness to commit a new offense in an effort to cover up an old one bears comparison with current events. Though he doesn't resort to charges of a right-wing conspiracy, he denounces any who would criticize him as "men who, each one of them, have worse secrets in their own lives." Take that, Congress!
Like generations of lip-biters, Sir Robert tries to talk his way out of trouble by glossing over his act: "The affair to which you allude was no more than a speculation. The House of Commons had not yet passed the bill; it might have been rejected." But, alas, there is an incriminating letter afloat that even a glib politician would be hard put to explain. (Victorian playwrights had to make do without the evidence of a stained frock.)
Sir Robert, along with the play, is saved by some mechanics of 19th-century melodrama, but he is almost done in by his moralizing wife, for whom he represents the ideal husband. To his explanation that "Sooner or later in political life one has to compromise," she instructs him in female psychology straight out of romance fiction: "Robert, men can love what is beneath them, things unworthy, stained, dishonored. We women worship when we love and when we lose our worship, we lose everything."
Along with being a threat to her husband, Lady Chiltern's worshipful attitude is an offense to feminism, which was astir at the time. She is assuredly no model for today's achieving woman. If she had political ambitions of her own, say to run for senator from New York; if she had a career, perhaps as an Arkansas lawyer, that brought her into dubious company; if she had made surprising amounts of money in problematic ways, then she might well have collaborated sensibly in the cover-up, although at the expense of an enjoyable plot.
But what prudent spouse with the slightest acquaintance with politics would advance the dangerous proposition "that a person who has once been guilty of a dishonest and dishonorable action may be guilty of it a second time, and should be shunned"? An invitation to voters?
As Lady Chiltern, more bent on saving her husband's soul than his career, urges him into assured destruction, she preaches, "I don't think you realize sufficiently, Robert, that you have brought into the political life of our time a nobler atmosphere, an inner attitude towards life, a freer air of purer aims and higher ideals." Some consolation for a man whose career is going down the drain.
Today's more knowing spouse would surely be found off the pedestal and at rallies celebrating her husband's record of accomplishment: the economy is perking, the electorate is tranquil. And anyway, the offense was small. Sir Robert claims he did not make much money on the deal after all, that he has since given away far more in public charities. To which his friend Lord Goring, who utters Wilde's best lines, cracks: "In public charities? Dear me! What a lot of harm you must have done, Robert."
When Lord Goring asks, "How could you have sold yourself for money?" Sir Robert produces one of those parsings that have lately become famous: "I did not sell myself for money. I bought success at a great price. That is all." Oscar! Thou shouldst be living at this hour.
Wilde's own attitude, delivered via Lord Goring, combines what today's audience might dismiss as a dated and dreamy depiction of women's role in public life with an acute view of the politician's reason for being. "Failure to Robert would be the very mire of shame," he warns Lady Chiltern. "Power is his passion. He would lose everything, even his power to love." No contemporary woman requires such a reminder.
The discerning Lord Goring could not fail to note that these days the sexes are equally prone to the appeals of power and ambition, which can make for ideal bedfellows as the campaign grows hot.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Portrait of the artist as a political analyst. (Napoleon Sarony/National Portrait Gallery, London)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (59%); NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (59%); NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER (78%); EXTORTION (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); WRITERS (64%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (61%); 

PERSON: SIR ROBERT (94%); OSCAR WILDE (88%); LORD GORING (67%); LADY CHILTERN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



263 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: ROOSEVELT ISLAND;
Leader Leaves, to Mixed Reviews

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON 

 BODY:
Jerome H. Blue, the embattled leader of Roosevelt Island, resigned last week to become the State Human Rights Commissioner. Reactions from residents ranged from good job to good riddance.
Gov. George E. Pataki appointed Robert Ryan, the vice president of communications for the Empire State Development Corporation, to succeed Dr. Blue, who is a neuroscientist, as chief executive of the Roosevelt Island Operating Corporation, which runs the island. At a meeting Thursday, the corporation's board approved the appointment. 
 Dr. Blue's three-year tenure was marked by fierce battles with residents, who accused him of arrogance and nonresponsiveness. During the last year, as relations deteriorated, Joseph Lynch, Commissioner of the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, began traveling from Albany to the island's heated monthly meetings.
"There was a stormy relationship between the activists on the island and Dr. Blue," Mr. Lynch said after the Thursday meeting. "The new appointee has much more people skills and the experience to bring this island forward."
Mr. Ryan called himself "an easy guy to get along with" and promised he would meet with local groups.
Dr. Blue did not attend, but submitted a farewell letter, read by Mr. Lynch, who drew loud laughs when he read, "I have fought for human rights and social justice throughout my career."
Many residents greeted Mr. Ryan warmly and asked him to mend a divided community. "There is a lot of healing that needs to be done," said Joan Christianson, vice president of the island's residents association.
State officials said Dr. Blue stayed within his budget, unlike many predecessors, but some residents say he cut spending in irresponsible ways, such as neglecting seawall repair.
Dr. Blue's spokesman, David O. Bailey, said, "Dr. Blue's only comment is that he is proud of his accomplishments."
Edward Rademaker, who has owned Roosevelt Island Wines and Liquors for 20 years, praised Dr. Blue, who he said kept rents low for struggling business owners.
"He gave summer jobs to our young people and a loving hand to those of lesser means," he said. "He put this island back on a stable economic plane." Mr. Rademaker said most of Dr. Blue's opponents were white and only appeared to be a majority because "the same group of well-to-do activists come to every meeting."
But Byron Gaspard, who is black, as is Dr. Blue, said Dr. Blue used race to pit the island's 8,500 residents against one another. "Right now this community is greatly divided," he said, "and that was by design."
 COREY KILGANNON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Ryan, the new head of the agency that runs Roosevelt Island, greeting residents last week. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION (NYS) EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; ROOSEVELT ISLAND (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); APPROVALS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%); 

PERSON: BLUE, JEROME H (DR); KILGANNON, COREY; RYAN, ROBERT EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (73%); EDDIE GEORGE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



264 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2631 words

HEADLINE: The Revenge Of the Bean Counters;
Studios Yell 'Cut!' As Costs Spiral For Filmmaking

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB and GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD

 BODY:
TEN years ago, the stars, and their agents, ruled Hollywood. Duds like "Legal Eagles" and "Family Business" were packaged by talent agents for clients like Robert Redford, Dustin Hoffman and Sean Connery, and the studios, without batting an eye, paid lavish sums to make them.
But now the studios are regaining the upper hand, and their main weapon is supply and demand. Under strict orders from their corporate owners to pay more heed to the bottom line, studios are making fewer films, forcing the people who work in the industry to carve up a smaller pie. 
 Midlevel actors and directors, hungry for jobs, are quietly willing to take pay cuts. And while top stars and directors can still usually write their own tickets -- Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks earned $40 million each from the success of "Saving Private Ryan" -- sometimes even the most high-profile projects are dropped altogether if their costs seem unlikely to be recouped.
Those who control the big studios -- many of which have been reduced to midsized operating units of giant conglomerates -- devote much of their creative energies to conjuring up new ways to limit the financial risks of filmmaking.
The artists may not like it, but the corporate bosses know that is the only way to get predictable earnings in a low-margin business, one in which the flops far outnumber the hits. And that mind-set has stripped the movie business of some of the sex appeal that a decade ago -- in the pre-dot-com era -- made it a mecca for investors the world over.
"If you look at the return on capital in the film industry, it has to be in the mid-single digits, which is probably no better than a Treasury bill," said David J. Londoner, a media analyst for Schroder & Company. He estimated that overall profits from the major film studios would drop about 20 percent this year.
"The television divisions make money, the film library makes money, but current releases lose money," Mr. Londoner said. "It's worse than it has been for the past couple of years."
The Hollywood sky, of course, is hardly falling. Producers, executives and talent agents still earn huge sums. Christopher McGurk, a former top executive at Universal Pictures, was recently hired as vice chairman and chief operating officer by the floundering Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer for a five-year compensation package worth at least $20 million. And though Tom Cruise deferred his customary $20 million-plus salary for a hefty percentage of Stanley Kubrick's "Eyes Wide Shut," he may easily earn double that if the film is successful.
But revenues have simply not kept up, as the average cost of a film doubled between 1993 and 1998, from $26.1 million to $52.7 million, and marketing costs climbed 79 percent, to $25.3 million. Something had to give. And it has.
"It's a time of creative deal-making -- and I mean that as a euphemism," said Tom Strickler, a partner at the Endeavor talent agency, which represents actors like Adam Sandler and Bette Midler. "Artists can't be as selective as they once were."
Moreover, some agents are being laid off. And a growing number of producers -- as well as actors, filmmakers and technicians -- can no longer count on being kept on a studio payroll as they scout for projects or seek jobs in television.
PART of the shift can be traced to changing film-industry economics. In the 1980's and early 1990's, the home-video, cable and pay-TV businesses exploded, creating new sources of revenue for the studios. Box-office receipts, which generated 35 percent of film revenue in 1990, dwindled to 24 percent last year. But in the last few years, the growth in the home-video business has slowed, and DVD's, which some studios are heralding as the next big revenue source, are still in their infancy.
In this bottom-line atmosphere, studios negotiate with talent agents, but their dictum is simple: Take it or leave it. This is a striking turnabout from the 1980's and early 1990's, when Michael Ovitz, then chairman of the Creative Artists Agency, dominated Hollywood by packaging projects for actors and directors and virtually telling studios the same thing studios are telling agents now. Mr. Ovitz himself is seeking to return to Hollywood, this time as a manager.
"We were delivering product to very receptive buyers," said Ron Meyer, who once worked as a partner with Mr. Ovitz at Creative Artists but now sits on the other side of table as president of Universal Studios. "In today's climate, with the risks so great, it's just much easier for a studio to say no to anything they believe is not very commercial."
Talent agents are adjusting. "If a movie doesn't fit a studio's financial model, they can do without making it," said David O'Connor, a top agent at Creative Artists. Mr. Connor minimized the shift, saying that the movie business was facing a "correction." Studios are reasserting financial controls, he said, but the talent -- or at least top stars and a handful of directors -- is still the main engine.
But there are limits. Recently, Dreamworks refused to pay Brad Pitt, whose last few films have fallen short of their studios' expectations, his $15 million fee for a film about the world of rock music written and directed by Cameron Crowe, who made "Jerry McGuire." Instead, Billy Crudup, a relative unknown, will play the role -- for less than $1 million.
Nicolas Cage dropped his fee from $20 million to $8 million to work within the budget of Martin Scorsese's "Bringing Out the Dead," about paramedics in Hell's Kitchen, due in October from Paramount. And after extensive wrangling with 20th Century Fox, agents for Cuba Gooding Jr. have agreed to less than his customary $3 million for an action film, "Navy Diver."
Warner Brothers, once an extravagant spender on hits like "Lethal Weapon" and flops like "The Postman," surprised Hollywood last year by shelving two big-budget films: a new version of "Superman," which was to star Mr. Cage and Kevin Spacey, and "I Am Legend," an action-adventure film with Arnold Schwarzenegger.
"Everybody has been forced to see the cold realities of the very narrow profit margins of the movie business," said Brian Grazer, producer of films like "Ransom" and "Apollo 13."
Another factor is the influx of conglomerates, which have moved into the business on the theory that while film operations may not always be great moneymakers, they enhance the value of cable channels and TV networks, and build lucrative film libraries.
"What you are really trying to do is to build asset values that help your other businesses," said Mr. Londoner, the media analyst.
The News Corporation, run by Rupert Murdoch, started the trend in 1985 by buying 20th Century Fox. Then came Sony, which bought Columbia; Viacom, which bought Paramount, and Matsushita, which bought Universal and then sold it to Seagram.
In the halcyon days of growth in home video and cable, the number of films produced rose sharply. But the corporate owners have finally begun to apply pressure to their studios -- which, though glamorous, are much riskier enterprises than many of the other business lines competing with them for management attention and capital.
In 1988, films and television accounted for 68 percent of revenues at Paramount Communications; last year, they represented 39 percent of Viacom's sales. At Time Warner, they are around 30 percent of sales, down from 37 percent a decade earlier at Warner Communications, before the merger with Time Inc. In the case of Disney, it is almost impossible to figure out how the film and TV business is doing, because its results are lumped in with the ABC television network and other operations.
"These used to be stand-alone entities, and as such they were the total focus of the management," said Herbert Allen, who heads Allen & Company, an investment banking firm in New York that specializes in media deals. "Now they are divisions of larger companies, representing dramatically less of a percentage of sales and earnings."
ABOVE all, corporate chiefs are putting heavy pressure on division heads to control spending so that even a bad run of films will not crush earnings.
"The Eisners, Murdochs and Redstones have all woken up and said, 'This can't go on,' " said Joe Roth, chairman of Walt Disney Studios, referring to the chief executives of Disney, the News Corporation and Viacom, respectively.
So Brian Mulligan, executive vice president at Seagram's Universal, likes to talk about managing a "portfolio of films" assembled to reduce risk, while Time Warner's chairman, Gerald M. Levin, is quick to point out that Warner's film and television business is only 11 percent of cash flow. (That helps to explain why Time Warner stock climbed even while Warner Brothers studios endured several flops in recent years, like "The Avengers," "Quest for Camelot" and "Father's Day.")
At Fox Filmed Entertainment, the chairman, Bill Mechanic, and his associates recently spent more than a year scaling back the budget of "Entrapment," the Sean Connery romantic adventure. The film was initially budgeted at $140 million, but the price tag was slashed to $60 million, Mr. Mechanic said. The studio hired a new director willing to work within its budget, dropped numerous costly action sequences and revised the script to focus more on character. The film, which was released in late April, has grossed $75 million and, with foreign ticket sales, will probably turn a profit.
Similar re-evaluations across Hollywood are having a striking impact. For the most part, studios make either large-scale films like "The Mummy," "The Matrix" or "Armageddon," with appeal to a wide, international audience, or smaller films aimed at specific moviegoers, like teen-agers, women or African-Americans.
"Movies are either more global in their appeal, or they're more focused and targeted to specific audiences," said Casey Silver, a producer and a former chairman at Universal Studios, who gave the go-ahead to "The Mummy" and acquired "Notting Hill."
Grown-up films -- movies more serious or sophisticated than, say, the new hit "Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me," released this weekend -- are increasingly left to independents. Of course, some of the leading "independents," like Disney's Miramax, Time Warner's Fine Line and Fox Searchlight, are not independent at all but are owned by the same companies that control studios. But the financial contrasts are startling nonetheless, as these production outfits operate with lower overhead, and actors expect lower fees when they make independent films.
One of the most profitable films of the 1990's is "The Full Monty," from Fox Searchlight. It cost $3.5 million and grossed $250 million around the world. By contrast, "The Horse Whisperer" and "Six Days, Seven Nights," from Disney, grossed $190 million and $175 million, respectively, but did not make a dime for the studio. The reasons were huge budgets and marketing costs, and hefty salaries for the likes of Robert Redford, Harrison Ford and the director Ivan Reitman.
Mr. Roth made it clear that, as a studio chief, he has limited options. Fewer and fewer studios are making serious films -- those designed for a relatively small audience "that's older, requires the most in terms of production value and wants to have movie stars," he said.
"So if we make a high-end drama intended for adults over 40," he added, "then you're dealing with an audience that shows up only sporadically and that requires great reviews.
"And if I have it executed one degree short of perfection, I may lose it all."
Conversely, he said, younger audiences do not require expensive stars, often return to the same film two or three -- or even more -- times and are unaffected by critics. For studios like Disney, the choice is clear.
THE mantra for many, but not all, studio executives in Hollywood is now "sharing the risk," or laying off part of a film's cost by seeking a financial partner or pre-selling the foreign rights to other distributors. The most notable example is "Titanic," which grossed $1.8 billion around the world but was notoriously over budget before its Christmas 1997 release.
Fox, which had the film rights, put up $135 million of the $200 million cost and distributed the film overseas. Paramount paid the rest and released the film in the United States.
After the costs were recouped, Fox has received 60 percent of the revenues while the remainder has gone to Paramount. However lucrative the film, though, the partnership was so tense that there was a near-fistfight between two top studio executives over the movie's release date.
A handful of top executives and producers are ambivalent, at best, about sharing costs. Those who make such deals, said John Calley, chairman of Sony Pictures Entertainment, are letting their anxiety about their own decisions stop them from capitalizing on their successes.
"Because you're betting the downside, you're not supporting your creative choices," Mr. Calley said. Sony, which buys rights but does not sell them, is now sharing the costs of two films with Universal and one with Disney.
A different corporate approach is typified by Jonathan Dolgen, chairman of the Viacom Entertainment Group, Paramount's parent.
Although Paramount owns most of its films outright, he said, the studio strongly believes in spreading risks by splitting costs, whether by taking on equity investors, acquiring limited rights to movies or making other arrangements.
"It substantially modifies the thing that people on the Street most hate about the movie business, which is the wild swings," Mr. Dolgen said. "If you have a movie that cost $100 million, you can wake up on the first Saturday morning after it opens and realize you've lost $50 million. There are a limited number of those Saturday mornings that you actually want to entertain that."
AT the moment, there are some possible new revenue sources that may ease the stinginess.
Studio chiefs say the advent of higher-quality digital video disks, known as DVD's, will prompt moviegoers to rebuild their film libraries. Robert A. Daly, co-chairman of Warner Brothers, is especially hopeful.
"DVD, pay per view, video on demand -- these are the critical areas of the movie business over the next few years," Mr. Daly said. "And the good part about DVD is it's going to bring in revenues in the area that doesn't push up costs: the library."
But optimism is in somewhat short supply in Hollywood. Studio executives have even noticed that the glitter of Internet riches is shining brighter among ambitious college graduates than the glitz of movieland.
"There has been an explosion of industries with a visual orientation, with the computer and the Internet, and for the moment, those are far more interesting," Mr. Allen said. "If you look at the total compensation of the people in those industries, and the wealth generated, the Internet businesses make everyone else look small, boring and pale in comparison."
But Mr. Calley, who helped run Warner Brothers studios from 1968 to 1981, takes the long view. He recalled that Warner Brothers and Stanley Kubrick were locked in a dispute in 1970 over the costs of "A Clockwork Orange." Mr. Kubrick insisted on spending $1.32 million on the film, while Mr. Calley wanted to spend $1.28 million. A compromise was reached.
"I hate to say it, but we were having budget interviews with Variety and The Hollywood Reporter in the mid-70's about how these out-of-control costs were going to destroy the industry," he said. "What occurs over and over again is that as costs seem to have reached the ultimate state of 'out of control,' along comes a new income stream, a la DVD, that takes up the slack and resuscitates you through yet another cycle."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo/Drawing (James Porto)(pg.1)
 
Graph "With the Cost of Films Going Up..." plots the average marketing and production costs of feature films at major studios since 1990. (pg. 1)
 
Graph "And Revenue Growth Slow..." plots growth rate in the film industry's worldwide sales since 1991. (pg. 1)
 
Graph "Studios Have Begun Making Fewer Movies..." plots the number of films released in the United States by major studios since 1990. (Sources: Motion Picture Association of America; Paul Kagan Associates (revenue growth)(pg. 1)
 
Photos/Chart: "Belt-Tightening, Hollywood Style"
The economics of movie-making is changing as corporate overlords squeeze the Hollywood studios to produce a higher return on capital. The studios have responded by reducing the number of films they release -- thereby increasing their leverage with artists and producers -- and finding ways to lower costs. The change from a decade ago is striking.
 
THEN
 
TIED UP WITH A BOW
The late 1980's were the heyday of the "package deal" in Hollywood. Powerful agents like Michael Ovitz of the Creative Artists Agency put together movie projects with actors, directors and writers they represented. The studios, eager to keep the "creatives" happy, signed onto the deals at the prices the agents dictated. But the agents did not go down in cinematic history as brilliant filmmakers:
 
For "Legal Eagles," below, released in 1986 by Universal, Creative Artists teamed up Robert Redford, Debra Winger and the director Ivan Reitman. The film cost an estimated $60 million and grossed about $50 million in the United States. With overseas ticket sales, executives said, it turned a profit. But it is still remembered as an embarrassment for the studio.
 
Another flop was "Family Business," above, a 1989 release from Tristar, a division of Sony. Creative Artists put the film together as a package deal for Matthew Broderick, Sean Connery and Dustin Hoffman. It cost $35 million and grossed just $11 million in the United States; overseas sales were also disappointing.
 
NOW
 
INDEPENDENT HITS
While cutting back their own production levels, the major studios are releasing more films made by their "independent" divisions, which have much lower costs. The objective is a hit like "The Full Monty," right, a 1997 Fox Searchlight film that cost $3.5 million and grossed more than $250 million worldwide.
 
STAR-FREE BY DESIGN
Another way to improve the odds of a film's profitability is to keep the story simple -- to play better overseas -- and to cast lesser-known actors in leading roles. "There's Something About Mary," a 20th Century Fox film released last year starring Cameron Diaz, cost $23 million and grossed $176 million just in the United States, plus $186 million overseas.
 
STAR-FREE BY FIAT
A film about the rock music world by the director Cameron Crowe, still untitled, was set to star Brad Pitt, right, among others. But Dreamworks balked at his $15 million fee and instead cast Billy Crudup, far right. His fee: less than $1 million.
 
SHIFTING THE RISK
Tom Cruise won't receive his usual $20 million-plus fee for starring with his wife, Nicole Kidman, in "Eyes Wide Shut," right, from Warner Brothers. Instead, he agreed to accept a percentage of the film's receipts; the better it does, the more he'll earn.
(pg. 15)
 
Chart: "Small Business"
Filmed entertainment contributes less than a third of total revenue for most major studio owners.
 
Sony
1998 REVENUE (BILLIONS)
TOTAL: 51.2
FILM AND TV: 4.8
% FROM FILM AND TV: 9.4
 
Seagram
1998 REVENUE (BILLIONS)
TOTAL: 9.7
FILM AND TV: 1.9**
% FROM FILM AND TV: 19.6
 
Disney
1998 REVENUE (BILLIONS)
TOTAL: 23.0
FILM AND TV: 6.0*
% FROM FILM AND TV: 26.1
 
Time Warner
1998 REVENUE (BILLIONS)
TOTAL: 26.8
FILM AND TV: 8.0
% FROM FILM AND TV: 29.7
 
News Corp.
1998 REVENUE (BILLIONS)
TOTAL: 12.4
FILM AND TV: 3.8
% FROM FILM AND TV: 30.6
 
Viacom
1998 REVENUE (BILLIONS)
TOTAL: 12.1
FILM AND TV: 4.8
% FROM FILM AND TV: 39.3
 
* estimate
** revenue from feature films only
(Sources: Company reports, Disney)(pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (84%); SCHRODER & CO INC (64%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (51%); MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; FINANCES; INDUSTRY PROFILES MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); TALENT AGENTS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); LIBRARIES (70%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD; FABRIKANT, GERALDINE TOM CRUISE (78%); TOM HANKS (78%); CAMERON DIAZ (73%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (58%); BRAD PITT (58%); NICOLE KIDMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



265 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Arden Armstrong;
MAS Mid-Cap Growth Fund

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
ARDEN ARMSTRONG, lead manager of the $887.6 million MAS Mid-Cap Growth fund, cheerfully acknowledges the growth-oriented nature of her investing discipline. She asks only that her style not be confused with the methods of other growth-fund managers. "We like to find quality growth," she explained from her office in West Conshohocken, Pa. "We're not momentum or growth-at-a-reasonable-price investors."
Three elements characterize what she calls "quality growth" companies: projected annual earnings growth of more than 15 percent over the next one to three years, expanding profit margins over the same period and consistency in the profit growth -- which helps to determine whether growth can be sustained. 
 The fund seems to have benefited from the formula. MAS Mid-Cap returned 25.9 percent, annualized, for the three years ended June 4, compared with an average of 12.3 percent for its peer group of mid-cap growth funds, according to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago financial publisher, and 27.6 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Individuals can buy the fund's institutional shares through financial advisers or directly through fund networks.
Ms. Armstrong, 38, begins the stock-selection process with a computer program that looks at the 2,500 or so companies traded on United States exchanges that have market capitalizations of $500 million to $5 billion. About 40 percent of them have the quality earnings characteristics she seeks and become candidates for further research, which she does with the help of two co-managers and eight analysts. They whittle down their list to the 90 or so stocks in the portfolio.
The research focuses on whether Wall Street earnings estimates are sustainable. On company balance sheets, she looks for lean inventories and low totals in accounts receivable and working capital -- signs of a company that operates efficiently, producing excess cash flow.
She also reviews companies' market position. "In small-cap and mid-cap investing," she said, "you can end up with little companies that compete with big companies." She avoids those small companies because they risk being overwhelmed, and looks instead for those that are leaders in fragmented industries or that dominate market niches.
Roughly one-third of the portfolio is always allocated to aggressive-growth stocks -- with rates of earnings growth above 25 percent -- and another third to more stable growth companies. The remainder shifts between those two categories.
"We've trimmed our holdings in the stable growers, because we're trying to get more economically sensitive stocks that are poised to benefit from a better global economy, like semiconductor or energy stocks," she said. "These are a little more cyclical, but I think we're in the right point in the cycle for them."
The price she will pay varies. If a company has a very stable growth rate, she's willing to pay a price-to- earnings multiple that is higher than the company's earnings growth rate, perhaps buying a stock with a P/E of 25 whose earnings growth is below 25 percent. For cyclical growth companies with low profit margins and no excess cash flow, she is likely to pay a multiple that is only 60 to 80 percent of the growth rate.
THE bought CNF Transportation, a Palo Alto, Calif., air carrier and trucking company, for $44 a share in January. "Merchandise bought over the Internet is generally shipped by the U.S. post office, and CNF has a contract with the post office for providing transportation for priority mail on the East Coast," she said.
CNF owns Emery Worldwide, a shipping company that has suffered over the last two years as many foreign economies stumbled. But CNF has cut costs and improved service at Emery, she said, and its earnings should improve as economic activity picks up abroad. Analysts expect earnings to grow 14.5 percent annually over the next three years. The stock now trades at $39.25, or 11.7 times the earnings of $3.36 a share that analysts estimate for 2000.
Ms. Armstrong began buying General Instrument, which makes cable set-top boxes, at $20 a share in April 1998, hoping to profit from the cable TV boom. The company has recently introduced digital cable versions of its boxes, she said, and is upgrading its equipment to provide modem and telephone services. General Instrument had a 1998 net profit margin of 10.9 percent. Wall Street expects earnings to grow 23.5 percent a year over the next three years.
The stock now trades at $38.25, or 32.7 times expected 2000 earnings of $1.17 a share.
The fund recently added to its position in Premier Parks, which it originally bought in 1997 at $16 a share. The company, based in Oklahoma City, acquired the Six Flags theme parks and name from Time Warner last year and has been rechristening its existing larger parks with the Six Flags name. Ms. Armstrong said the company is likely to see steady growth because its parks are used by day-trippers and are not as sensitive to the economy as parks requiring longer stays.
Because Premier Parks makes lots of acquisitions, which can distort profits, Ms. Armstrong looks at its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. She expects that figure to grow 22 percent a year over the next three years. The stock now trades at $37.50.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In picking stocks, Arden Armstrong, right, looks for consistently strong earnings growth. During a stop in New Orleans last week, she and her mother, Carolyn Conover, watched a street musician at an outdoor cafe. (Lee Celano for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "MAS Mid-Cap Growth Portfolio"
Category -- Mid-cap growth
Net assets -- $887.6 million
Inception -- March 1990 Manager Arden Armstrong since March 1990
Portfolio turnover -- 172%
3-year annualized return through June 4 -- (Institutional shares) 25.9%
Category average -- 12.3%
 
Sector breakdown
Health -- 12.0%
Financials -- 7.1%
Other -- 15.6%
Technology -- 27.9%
Services -- 37.4%
 
Fees (Institutional shares)
Front-end load -- None
Deferred load -- None
12b-1 fee -- None
Expense ratio -- 0.62%
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MAS MID-CAP GROWTH FUND MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAS MID-CAP GROWTH FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); CASH FLOW (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); WORKING CAPITAL (62%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (62%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; ARMSTRONG, ARDEN ARDEN ARMSTRONG (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



266 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2660 words

HEADLINE: The Space Race;
Why Is It So Hard to Find a Parking Spot in Manhattan?

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER 

 BODY:
HE concedes that others might call him a gadfly or consider him a tad obsessed. But to Thomas J. Hillgardner, a lawyer from Flushing, Queens, and the founder of a group called the Parking Justice League, it all comes down to civic responsibility and civil rights.
So last October, when Mr. Hillgardner saw a police officer ticketing a stranger's car at Bleecker and Lafayette Streets in Manhattan, he spoke up.Complained. Argued. "I told the cop that he could not give a ticket if there was no 'No Parking' sign on the block," said Mr. Hillgardner, who no longer has a car of his own. The officer was unconvinced, he said, and told him to move along. Twice. 
 Mr. Hillgardner did not comply and was arrested for harassment. He was held in a station house jail for six hours, he said, before he was released and told to appear in court in December. Mr. Hillgardner said he went to court as scheduled, eager to defend himself. But the case was put off, he said. Within a few weeks, the Manhattan District Attorney's office dropped it.
That did not satisfy Mr. Hillgardner. This month, he sued the city and the Police Department in Federal District Court for violation of his civil rights, seeking $417 million in punitive damages. "That's how much the city earned last year from parking revenues," he said.
Actually, it was $378 million, according to the Department of Finance, the parent agency of the Parking Violations Bureau. But whatever the figure, to Mr. Hillgardner and many other New Yorkers, the money is a testament to the distress residents and visitors suffer when they try to find a place to park, especially in Manhattan. Where else do people pay $20, sometimes more, to park for half an hour in a garage? Or worry about moving their cars from one side of the street to the other, sometimes every day? On the street, the slightest misstep can lead to a ticket in the blink of an eye, or to having one's car towed. And forget about pleading for mercy with a traffic agent.
To many Americans, parking is an inalienable right, right up there with free speech and unlimited iced-tea refills. But New York is a crowded place, with two million vehicles registered in the five boroughs, and many millions more coming in daily from the suburbs and beyond. There just isn't room for all of them on the streets. Demand for parking exceeds supply. Simple as that.
The squeeze on parking in Manhattan began in 1982, when concerns about air pollution from traffic led to a tightening of the rules on construction of parking garages, city planning officials said. New commercial garages, which until then could be built as of right, were banned except with special permits. And the number of new residential garage spaces was reduced. Builders, who had been obliged to provide 40 spaces for every 100 apartments, no longer were required to provide any, and if they did, they could create only 25 or 35 per 100 apartments, depending on the neighborhood.
Like the 8 percent surcharge levied on Manhattan parking in 1980 -- the total tax is now 18.25 percent -- the restrictions were meant to reduce traffic into the borough. They didn't. But decreased construction of new parking spaces, and the loss of open-air lots to new buildings, reduced the number of commercial and residential parking spots in the borough by about 10 percent over all and by about 17 percent from midtown to lower Manhattan, said the chairman of the city's Planning Commission, Joseph B. Rose.
Today, there are 127,000 parking spaces in garages in Manhattan, with 35,000 or so spots in outdoor lots, said Joel Stahl, the executive director of the Metropolitan Parking Association, an industry trade group to which most of the city's parking lot and garage operators belong. Commercial parking remains a big business in New York, with annual revenues of at least $1 billion, Mr. Stahl said. With the local economy booming, he said, demand has increased.
Parking lot professionals have taken notice. Within the last year, the Central Parking Corporation of Nashville, which already owned Meyers Parking, a major garage operator in the city, went on a shopping spree, acquiring Kinney Parking, Square Parking and part of Edison Parking.
Monroe Carell Jr., the chairman of Central Parking, the country's largest commercial parking operator, now controls 135,000 parking spots in New York City, including those at Yankee and Shea Stadiums. "New York has the best ratio of demand to number of spaces in the country," he said.
Most of Central Parking's garages are leased from the owners of the buildings. Anne DeMarzo, co-president of DeMarzo Realty Company in Manhattan, which specializes in parking lots and garages, said the market for them was strong. Most leases, she said, run for 10 years or more, and these days Manhattan property owners are demanding $1,000 to $6,000 per space per year, depending on location.
That's a lot of money, especially since companies that lease garages from landlords usually look for a return of eight to nine times on their investment, said Howard Greenberg, the other co-president of DeMarzo Realty.
The more garage operators pay, the more customers pay. A day's parking in midtown can now cost as much as $50, although Mr. Stahl said that several garages in midtown charge $20 or less. The Department of Consumer Affairs has rules requiring garage and lot operators to post signs about rate increases and to warn consumers about them, but the city does not regulate how much they can charge. So parking companies are free to charge whatever the traffic will bear.
And they do. "We have artificially created a parking shortage in New York City," Mr. Rose said. "The $450-a-month parking space is as much a product of foolish regulation as anything else."
Mr. Rose has proposed allowing builders to create more parking spots in residential buildings. "We're the only major city that prohibits residents from parking," he said. "We want to change that." But no change is planned for the rules on commercial garage construction. The city still does not want to encourage nonresidents to drive in.
City Councilwoman Kathryn E. Freed, whose lower Manhattan district includes SoHo, where the streets are clogged on weekends with visitors' cars, said she was "conflicted" about Mr. Rose's plans.
"I know people who live in the city need places to park," she said. "But we are so congested that the idea of allowing more parking in the center of the city is insane."
Whether or not more residential garage spaces are on the horizon, for many people who live in the city, parking the car means a daily hunt for a spot.
Just how many legal parking spaces are there on the streets? A spokesman for the Department of Transportation, Mark Patterson, would only provide written answers to written questions about general procedures concerning parking. "D.O.T. has no use for this information and therefore has no reason to maintain such records," the department said about the number of street spots, adding that there are roughly 66,000 parking meters citywide.
Whatever the number of spaces, in many neighborhoods, the opportunities for street parking are quite limited, and in some, they even seem to be shrinking.
In lower Manhattan, 2,400 old fire hydrants are supposed to be removed, but most remain on the streets. They have not been used since 1980, but motorists can still get a $55 ticket for parking next to one. Plans to get rid of them have been delayed for years. Though an 18-month project to do the job was announced in 1997, only 54 have been taken out so far, said a spokesman for the Department of Design and Construction, Matthew Monahan.
Meanwhile, in parts of lower Manhattan, including much of the area south of Canal Street, the Sanitation Department has imposed new rules that ban parking between 2 A.M. and 6 A.M. on various nights of the week, so that street cleaning, previously done during the day, can take place after dark. In effect, overnight parking becomes impossible on those nights.
The reason? Many streets are far too congested to clean during the day, said a Sanitation Department spokeswoman, Kathy Dawkins.
The result? "They are making it impossible," said Martin Shaw, a disgusted TriBeCa resident who parks on the street.
Then there are the holders of city-authorized parking permits, who seem to gobble up spaces, legal and illegal, all over the city. Most of the permits, laminated cards placed on dashboards, are issued by the Police Department and the Department of Transportation. There are parking permits for the handicapped, for clergy and for nonprofit groups, as well as film and press permits. And there are official business permits, which are given to city employees who are supposed to use them on city business only, for no more than three hours at a time.
But some permit holders seem to have unconventional beliefs about the meaning of official business, not to mention elastic notions of time. The problem is particularly acute in areas with numerous city offices, like Long Island City, and in downtown Brooklyn and lower Manhattan, where some streets are actually designated as "no permit zones," and where city permit holders park anyway, in flagrant disregard of the rules.
The area around 30th Place in Long Island City is home to several city agencies, and cars with city permits are often parked in no-parking zones there. "I have the Cadillac of parking permits," City Councilman Walter L. McCaffrey, who represents the neighborhood, said last September, "and I can hardly park anywhere."
Paul Goldstein, the district manager for Community Board 1, which includes most of Manhattan south of Canal Street, said his district is especially hard hit because of all the government offices there. Government cars sit on the streets all day long, he said, and "nothing is ever done about it."
"We've complained about abuse of the permits to the police and to the Department of Transportation for years," Mr. Goldstein said.
Cars with police or Transportation Department permits can be found all over lower Manhattan. Near Police Plaza, they are even on the sidewalk. In addition to occupying no-parking and no-standing zones, cars with permits also occupy metered spots that are supposed to be available to the general public. Often they also fill those few streets where daytime parking is otherwise allowed, shutting out residents.
That's not supposed to happen. "We expect our people to abide by rules and regulations," said a police spokesman, Lieut. Dennis Cirillo. And when officers spot vehicles with city permits that are illegally parked, he said: "They should ticket there. If not, they should be subject to discipline."
All well and good, but who gets these permits? Inspector Michael Collins of the Police Department's public information office did not return several telephone calls requesting information about the number of permits issued by the department and the identity of the recipients.
The Transportation Department spokesman, Mr. Patterson, wrote that approximately 9,753 department permits are issued citywide, "with different criteria for each kind of permit."
Because the department would not voluntarily reveal the names and titles of those to whom it has issued parking permits, The New York Times made a formal request for the information last month under New York State's Freedom of Information law. Despite time limits under the law that required a response to the request before publication of this article, Diane Poland, the director of the agency's office of litigation support and records management, said it could not provide the information until the end of June "at the earliest" because its computer operators "could not be taken off the Y2K problem."
The ticketing of illegally parked cars is the responsibility of the Police Department, whose officers and traffic agents are supposed to enforce the law. But parking tickets also mean money for the city. According to the Finance Department, 9,143,000 tickets were issued during the 1997-98 fiscal year, bringing in $378 million in revenue. (That's a little more than 1 percent of the city's recently announced $35 billion budget. It's considerably more than the estimated $210 million the city expects to lose as a result of the recent repeal of the income tax on commuters.)
Though parking revenue for 1996-97 was slightly higher, $385 million, the revenue trend has been generally upward since 1993-94, when New York City took in $295 million from parking violations. And though the number of tickets issued has been declining since the early 90's, the amount of the average ticket, about $48 in fiscal 1998, has been rising.
The police deny that officers have ticket-writing quotas. But many New Yorkers believe they exist.
"Sure there are quotas," said James Savage, the departing president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, the police union, who was unseated this month in a union election. "Ask any police officer, and if he can cover his badge he'll tell you."
"Sometimes," he added, "it's called 'Book of the Month Club.' "
According to Mr. Savage, an average monthly requirement in midtown might be 25 parking tickets, 5 moving violations and at least 2 "quality of life" tickets. That's for regular beat patrol officers; a so-called summons man, assigned to parking ticket duty, is expected to write 30 to 50 tickets a day, he said.
Mr. Savage denied that officers issue tickets where they should not just to make their quotas, as Mr. Hillgardner alleges in his Federal suit. But he did acknowledge that there are consequences for not writing a sufficient number of summonses. "If you don't make your quota, you're subject to reassignment or a change of tour," he said. "They can also give you a hard time when you want to take a day off if you haven't given them lots of summonses."
And while cars with city-issued parking permits illegally line city streets every day, they often do not receive tickets, local officials say. "We get reports all the time about cars with three-hour permits staying in spots all day," said Mr. Goldstein of Community Board 1. "Without tickets."
Why not? "You've got to be kidding," said one traffic enforcement agent last week. "Last time I gave a ticket to a cop with a permit he came out and threatened me," she said. "I don't need that."
 
A Cavern for Cars With Art on the Walls
AMONG the concrete caverns where city dwellers shell out big bucks to park their cars, there are some garages that try to make the experience a little less painful. GGMC, a family-run company that operates 27 garages and parking lots in Manhattan and Brooklyn, puts museum posters in its garages, and some have creative paint jobs.
At the Ruppert Towers garage on East 92d Street, between Second and Third Avenues, GGMC has mounted an exhibition of historic photographs depicting the Yorkville area in the early years of the century. The garage, in a housing complex that was built in the 1970's on the site of the old Ruppert Knickerbocker brewery, also features taxicab-yellow walls with a checkerboard border.
The company's Cove Club garage at Battery Park City, meanwhile, has red walls and posters of artworks by Toulouse-Lautrec and Cezanne.
GGMC's rates are competitive with other commercial garages in the city. But do its efforts to create a hospitable atmosphere encourage more people to park in its garages?
"Sure, people mainly choose their garages based upon convenience," said Andrew Grossman, the vice president of the company, which his father, Semone Grossman, started in 1957. "But I think they enjoy the experience here."
Mr. Grossman said the artistic environments create goodwill among landlords and residents. "Many tenants have told me that they would rather bring their guest up through the garage than through the lobby," he said proudly.
Imagine that.
 BERNARD STAMLER
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Local officials say city parking permits are often abused. This stretch of Dover Street is in a no-permit zone, but a city car was parked there anyway. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. 1); With all those government cars on the street, there's no place for residents to park. Across from the Department of Transportation headquarters on Worth Street, department cars were lined up recently in a no-permit zone. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); Thomas J. Hillgardner started a group called the Parking Justice League. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); Historic photos and a taxi motif decorate a garage on East 92d Street. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times)(pg. 12); Another no-permit zone, another violator. This car was illegally parked on Leonard Street in lower Manhattan. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. 13)
 
Chart: "DOLLAR SIGNS: Rates for a Space"
A random survey of weekday rates (including tax) at parking garages in congested areas of Manhattan:
 
Millenium Hilton
47 Church Street (Fulton St., World Trade Center)
Operator Central Parking
1 hour 18
2 hours 23
Up to 10 hour 30
Maximum to 24 hours 36
 
World Trade Center (open air lot)
Operator Central Parking
Daytime:
1 hour 16
2 hours 26
Up to 12 hours 32
Maximum to 24 hours 36
Night
1 hour 13
Up to 12 hours 17
Max to 24 hours 36
 
Zeckendorf Towers Garage
1 Irving Place
Operator GGMC
1 hour 10
2 hours 15
Up to 10 hours 20
Maximum to 24 hours 27
 
Grace Building Garage
38 West 43d Street, corner of Avenue of the Americas
Operator Edison Parking
Day rates
1/2-hour 10
1 hour 14
2 hours 18
3 hours 22
Up to 10 hours 24
Maximum to close 26
Night rates
1 hour 10
Maximum to close 20
 
Hippodrome Garage
1120 Avenue of the Americas
Operator Edison Parking
Day rates:
1/2-hour 10
1 hour 14
2 hours 18
3 hours 22
Up to 10 hours 24
Maximum to close 26
Night rates
1 hour 10
Maximum to close 18
 
Rockefeller Center Garage
25-43 West 48th Street
Operator Central Parking
1 hour 15.75
2 hours 22
Up to 12 hrs 27.75
Maximum to 24 hours 32
 
9 West 57th Street Garage
Operator Edison Parking
1/2-hour 14
1 hour 20
2 hours 26
Up to 10 hours 35
Maximum to 24 hours 40
 
Coliseum Parking Garage
325 West 58th Street
Operator Kinney
1 hour 13
Up to 10 hours 18
Maximum to 24 hours 27
 
1 Penn Plaza Garage (Madison Square Garden)
Operator Central Parking
1 hour 13
2 hours 16
 Up to 10 Hours 27
Maximum to 24 hours 36
Garden events: 30.00 (pg. 12)
 
Map of New York City higlighting areas where parking permits are not valid. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN PARKING ASSOCIATION (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; PARKING LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); LITIGATION (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); PARKING OFFENSES (77%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); DAMAGES (71%); ARRESTS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (68%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (68%); CITIES (66%); SUBURBS (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (62%); AIR POLLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: HILLGARDNER, THOMAS J; STAMLER, BERNARD THOMAS J HILLGARDNER (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



267 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
A Marshall Plan, on the Cheap?

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
WHEN George Marshall died in 1959, he left strict instructions: No eulogies. But getting politicians to follow commands, even those issued by former generals, is tricky business. And these days nearly everyone is paying homage to the Marshall Plan, which rebuilt Europe and Japan after World War II and became the gold standard for reconstructing some very deconstructed corners of the Earth.
Last week, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and the foreign ministers of Europe were talking about a "Marshall Plan for the Balkans." It will be a main topic at the annual summit meeting of industrialized nations this week in Cologne, Germany. 
 At the same meeting, an agreement is expected on whether and how to forgive the debts of some of the world's poorest nations, which owe upward of $130 billion in loans that they can probably never repay. Lifting that burden, advocates say, amounts to a Marshall Plan for the poor.
The use of the term is no surprise: Congress despises foreign aid almost as much as it loves phantom tax cuts. But call it a Marshall Plan, and suddenly it's not a handout, but a noble effort to turn beaten, bombed-out or broke nations into models of democratic capitalism.
There's only one real difference: Politicians who invoke the term today are not really interested in paying Marshall-sized money. By most estimates, the Marshall Plan cost about 2 percent of America's gross national product annually from 1947 to 1951. If the same ratio were used today, after the biggest run-up in national wealth in a century, the United States would spend $160 billion a year on modern Marshall Plans.
In fact, the talk is of spending only a tiny fraction of that figure, perhaps forgiving a bit more than $600 million for the poorest nations, assuming they meet a number of reform conditions that many have resisted.
The reality is that true Marshall Plans are not big sellers these days. During the cold war they carried a strategic logic of their own, shoring up economies so that nations would not be tempted to spread Communism. They also helped American industry by creating export markets. But in the post-cold war era, there is far less enthusiasm for spending money to encourage countries to adopt Western-style capitalism, much less to become customers.
So the same countries that are enthusiastic about new Marshall Plans talk even more enthusiastically about how to make others pay for them.
The bombs barely stopped dropping on Belgrade last week before the NATO allies began jockeying about who would pick up the bill.
"Everyone knows it's going to be expensive, but it has to be done," Ms. Albright said. Then, in background briefings, American officials said the United States had borne most of the cost of prosecuting the war, so Europe ought to pay to rebuild Kosovo and aid Albania and Macedonia. The price tag gyrates from $5 billion to $100 billion, depending on whether people are talking just about rebuilding roads and power lines and the like or about a wholesale economic upgrade for the region.
BUT the real arm-wrestling is over debt forgiveness for the poorest nations, chiefly in Africa. It's one of those ideas that everyone agrees on in general but almost no one can agree on in specific.
No one thinks debt service should be allowed to keep gobbling 60 percent or more of destitute countries' budgets. But neither is there much support for 100 percent debt forgiveness, no strings attached. The International Monetary Fund and others fear that simply writing off debts creates a serious "moral hazard" -- the expectation that future borrowing need not be repaid.
The outgoing Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, describing the American position last week, talked about step-by-step debt relief in return for real economic reforms -- more openness, enforceable property rights, revamped banking systems -- akin to those asked of South Korea, Indonesia, Russia and others in return for I.M.F. bailouts.
The problem is figuring out who pays. The French and the Japanese, who have done the most country-to-country lending, like the idea that Western nations would contribute in proportion to the size of their economies -- meaning the United States would pay the most. Washington, not surprisingly, has a different formula in mind.
Aid groups fear that debt forgiveness will cannibalize other aid. "We want to see as much debt relief as possible," said Lydia Williams, a policy adviser at Oxfam America, who has been lobbying Congress for a bigger package, but "it has to be additional, new resources to do much good."
As Jeffrey D. Sachs of Harvard points out, the West can now afford to solve the problem "without resorting to the kinds of huge numbers" involved in the Marshall Plan. "It's just a matter of political will," he said -- which General Marshall had less trouble gathering.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A recovery plan like the one implemented by George C. Marshall, left, after World War II is being considered for Yugoslavia, where NATO bombs destroyed structures like this bridge at Novi Sad. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); SERBIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); KOSOVO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: EARTH (72%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: MARSHALL PLAN (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; JAPAN; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); SERBIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); KOSOVO (79%); GERMANY (79%); EARTH (72%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WORLD WAR II (1939-45); MARSHALL PLAN; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (96%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); TAX LAW (67%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E MADELEINE ALBRIGHT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



268 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
For Physical Therapists, a Sudden Drought

BYLINE: By ERIC QUINONES 

 BODY:
IN his first year in the physical therapy program at Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia, Tony Woods saw advanced students receiving multiple job offers -- sometimes months before graduation. Mr. Woods, who had been a carpenter, was feeling good about trying a career change.
Three years later, he is close to earning his master's degree, but recruiters have not come calling. "No responses on anything so far," he said, "and I've probably put a couple of dozen feelers out there." 
 Mr. Woods's plight exemplifies a sudden shift in physical therapy. Beginning about a decade ago, it was a booming field desperate for skilled practitioners to treat an aging, fitness-minded population. But now it faces a slowdown caused by its own growing pains, the growth of managed care and, especially, Medicare cutbacks that took effect in January. Years of undersupply have given way to a tighter job market and to reduced work hours and salaries.
"The shortfall has literally evaporated," said William Quillen, director of the physical therapy program at Indiana University in Indianapolis. "There's just not the hot, hot job market there was two or three years ago."
In the past decade, with graduates in demand at hospitals, rehabilitation centers, nursing homes and home health care agencies, the number of physical therapy programs at colleges and universities nationwide soared 75 percent, to 208. And, in a trend that has since abated, thousands of foreign therapists arrived.
Full-time therapists typically earn $55,000 a year, according to the American Physical Therapy Association, and some make more than $100,000. But the ranks of full-timers are thinning even as more graduates enter the field each year.
Therapists assign some of the blame to the cost controls of managed-care companies, but more of it to a Medicare cutback. Before this year, the program's only limit on spending for physical therapy was a $900 cap for private outpatient care. Now Medicare will pay no more than a total of $1,500 a year for physical and speech therapy, though the head of a Federal advisory panel recently recommended eliminating that cap.
THE changes have meant that patients often get less care than they would have under the old rules and that new graduates must look harder for jobs.
"When I actually got accepted to Jefferson, everybody was telling me what a great field it was," said Mr. Woods, who is 46. But now he is facing $50,000 in loans, on which he must start payments later this year, and the job prospects appear dim in the area around Philadelphia, where he lives. As he finishes his clinical training, Mr. Woods and his wife, Cynthia, a management training consultant, have begun to consider leaving the Northeast, a saturated market for physical therapists.
"We have two children, so that's a big issue," Mr. Woods said.
In contrast, Jennifer Sonn, who graduated from Thomas Jefferson in 1996, had three offers before she finished school and chose Presbyterian Medical Center in Philadelphia, which offered her a signing bonus 10 months before she graduated. She left the hospital last summer and now works for the Visiting Nurses Association, a nonprofit home health care agency, in Runnemede, N.J.
Though she is doing well, other experienced therapists have been hurt by the tightened job market. Of a dozen of her friends from Thomas Jefferson, Mrs. Sonn said, three have been laid off and two have taken pay cuts of up to $5,000 in the past year.
Martin Weinstein, a veteran therapist who practices in Flushing, Queens, said managed-care restrictions had cut his revenues by 35 percent in two years.
The physical therapy association, in Alexandria, Va., which represents about 49,000 of the nation's 116,000 or so licensed therapists, reported that 20 percent of 6,000 therapists surveyed in April said their hours had been reduced in the past six months, compared with 13 percent who said yes to the same question in October 1998. It also said that while unemployment among therapists who prefer working in nursing homes and home health care remained low, at 3 percent in April, the rate was still more than double the 1.2 percent last October. There was virtually no unemployment in those areas just three years ago, said the group's spokeswoman, Alexis Waters.
The association has not compiled industrywide unemployment figures this year. But even before the new law, a 1997 study commissioned by the group predicted a 20 percent to 30 percent surplus of therapists as early as 2005, citing the rising numbers of students and the managed-care companies' cost controls.
"Managed-care reimbursement has caused an impact on every aspect of health care," said Sandra Howell, interim chairwoman of the physical therapy department at the University of Southern California. "Patients are being discharged from the hospital a lot sooner, and there's less time for physical therapy, occupational therapy and a number of ancillary health professions."
Dr. Thomas Simmer, medical director of Health Alliance Plan, a health maintenance organization based in Detroit, said managed care companies are emphasizing cutting drug and hospital costs. "I do not believe that nationally or locally, physical therapy is undergoing that same type of energetic cost-reduction strategy," he said.
But Dr. Quillen of Indiana University said older patients already receiving therapy might not be able to afford further care if, say, they broke a bone. In many cases, he said, people "can very quickly exhaust their Medicare benefits."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tony Woods faces a tight job market as he finishes training in physical therapy. Last week, supervised by Karen Gofberg, he tossed a ball to Morris Zebrick, a patient. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times); Tony Woods faces a tight job market as he finishes training in physical therapy. Last week, supervised by Karen Gofberg, he tossed a ball to Morris Zebrick, a patient. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 
Graph "Injured Market," plots the growth rate in the number of licensed physical therapists in the United States from 1996 projected through 2004. (Source: American Physical Therapy Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: THOMAS JEFFERSON UNIVERSITY (56%); AMERICAN PHYSICAL THERAPY ASSOCIATION (59%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PHYSICAL THERAPY ASSOCIATION (59%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: PHYSICAL THERAPY; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; MEDICARE EMPLOYMENT (93%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SPEECH THERAPY (73%); NURSING HOMES (73%); HEALTH CARE (70%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (67%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (65%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (65%); HOME HEALTH CARE (53%); 

PERSON: QUINONES, ERIC R TONY WOODS (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



269 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
Attacking Military Excess, From the Executive Office

BYLINE: By ERIC QUINONES 

 BODY:
WHY must Bell Industries, a computer services company in El Segundo, Calif., go all the way to India to hire programmers? The company's co-chairman, Theodore Williams, thinks it is because America doesn't have its priorities straight.
Mr. Williams says his frustration at being unable to find enough qualified Americans for the jobs is why he believes the goals of Business Leaders for Sensible Priorities are so important. The organization is a group of business people campaigning for fundamental changes in the way the Government uses its resources, and Mr. Williams is one of the founders. 
 To Mr. Williams and others in the group, the shortage of programmers is symptomatic of an education system that is starved of money and hurting America's competitiveness, all while billions of dollars are lavished on unproductive military spending. The group wants a higher budget priority for schools, health care for children and other programs to insure America's future economic vitality.
Led by an unabashed liberal activist, Ben Cohen, co-founder of Ben & Jerry's Homemade, the group has attracted members like Paul Newman and Ted Turner -- names that are decidedly not part of the business mainstream. But most of the group's members are lesser-known executives and business owners who hope their practical business background will give them credibility with lawmakers and voters.
The group steers away from the usual ideological and partisan camps. It does not ask its members about their party affiliations, and several members said in interviews that encouraging wiser spending was a goal that fit a conservative agenda as well as a liberal one.
" 'Conservative' means prudence, and 'conservative' means not spending money indiscriminately without a return," said Arnold Hiatt, chairman of the Stride Rite Foundation and another of the group's founders. "I think an awful lot of money is being spent, particularly in the Defense Department, not for the right reasons."
But pacifism isn't on the group's agenda, either.
"We are in favor of a strong military," said Bruce Klatsky, the chairman and chief executive of the Philips-Van Heusen Corporation, a clothing and shoe manufacturer, and also a founder of the group. "What we are against is the waste in the military."
The group's profile rose considerably late last year when it began an advertising campaign arguing that, with the cold war over, billions of dollars could safely be cut from nuclear weapons programs and from new generations of fighter aircraft and attack submarines meant to replace models that are already the world's best.
In expressing these views, the business group relies on several military advisers, including Lawrence Korb, assistant Defense Secretary in the Reagan Administration, and Paul C. Warnke, chief arms negotiator in the Carter Administration.
NOT surprisingly, the group's message is anathema to the military industry.
The Pentagon spent $44 billion on weapons last year, the least in more than a decade, said John W. Douglass, president and chief executive of the Aerospace Industries Association of America. Over all, he said, arms spending has fallen by 70 percent since the end of the cold war.
"Just to try to say that Americans have two choices, education or Pentagon waste, is just an outrageous oversimplification and unfair statement," Mr. Douglass said.
The business group counters that military spending is already rebounding. Even before NATO began bombing Yugoslavia in late March, the Clinton Administration was asking Congress for the biggest increase in military spending since the 1980's, an additional $112 billion over the next five years, raising the Pentagon budget to $319 billion by 2005.
"The fact that we're in a warlike state creates a climate for larger budget increases and less examination of the wastefulness that already exists," Mr. Newman said in an interview conducted before the Kosovo peace agreement was concluded late last week.
The business leaders' group has grown from 5 members in 1996 -- Messrs. Cohen, Williams, Hiatt and Klatsky, as well as Alan Hassenfeld, chairman and chief executive of Hasbro -- to 450 today.
Beyond the advertising campaign, the group is also paying for a bus tour called "U Slice the Pie." It began in April in Washington and is to run through November, spending a lot of time in Iowa, an early stop in the 2000 Presidential campaign.
At events like county fairs and church picnics, three young actors present the group's message using huge inflatable displays with statistics on budget allocations, military industry lobbying and job creation. The bus is painted to look like piles of cash; some of the executives have spoken at the stops.
"This issue of Federal budget priorities is kind of dry," Mr. Cohen said. "It's kind of off-putting to people. The object of the 'U Slice the Pie' performance is to make it fun and exciting."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Seeking cuts in military spending, Business Leaders for Sensible Priorities is using print advertising and a touring bus, shown at right at a stop in Des Moines. (Rodney White for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BI (AMEX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (82%); NAICS423690 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); SIC5065 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS LEADERS FOR SENSIBLE PRIORITIES (ORGN) COMPUTER SERVICE CO INC (91%); COMPUTER SERVICES CO (91%); BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (82%); BELL INDUSTRIES INC (58%); BUSINESS LEADERS FOR SENSIBLE PRIORITIES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS LEADERS FOR SENSIBLE PRIORITIES (ORGN) BUSINESS LEADERS FOR SENSIBLE PRIORITIES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE BUDGETS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); COLD WAR (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (62%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (53%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); FOOTWEAR MFG (50%); 

PERSON: COHEN, BEN ANN LIVERMORE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



270 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Trickle-Down Prosperity;
How Low the Boom Can Go

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN 

 BODY:
FOR the last eight years, the nation's economic boom, which has made so many Americans rich and self-confident, has been noteworthy for those it has left out: the people at the bottom of the ladder. Suddenly, that's changed. Unemployment rates among blacks and Hispanic people, though still high compared with that for whites, are at or near record lows. Joblessness among high school dropouts has fallen to about half the rate in 1992. And wages for the lowest paid are rising faster than inflation for the first time in decades.
That's important because the last generation produced an underclass of people so poor, discouraged and alienated that they were thought to exist almost outside the general economy. The conventional wisdom has been that the country could get richer or poorer, and the number of jobs could rise or fall, but a large swath of the poor would be left out. 
 Until recently that wisdom held true, but now prosperity is trickling down to the underclass. Imagine that the economy continues to flourish. The question then becomes how far down the ladder economic benefits will reach. Economists aren't sure, but they are gathering statistical tidbits, tossing in some educated hunches and producing some interesting predictions, however tentative.
Start with the nation's stunning 4.2 percent unemployment rate, which is lower than at any time since the late 1960's, when the economy was artificially buoyed by Government spending on the Vietnam War.
Perhaps overall unemployment cannot fall much more, no matter how tight the labor market becomes. The number of workers who are temporarily unemployed appears to have been squeezed to a minimum. And many of the long-term unemployed -- those who persistently look for work but can't find it -- will remain unattractive to employers no matter how big the boom.
But there is another category of people, including single mothers and young black men with few skills and little education, who appear willing to seize the new opportunities that a robust economy is creating.
Even under the best economic conditions, there are people who are temporarily out of work. At any moment, some workers quit their jobs. Others get fired. Students and spouses leave school and home to find their first jobs. All these people need time to find attractive jobs. Economists call this frictional unemployment and say it is a necessary feature of labor markets and nothing to fret about.
IN the super-charged economy of the 1960's, about 2 percent of the labor force was unemployed for fewer than five weeks. Today the percentage is about the same. So perhaps the time between jobs for qualified workers has contracted as much as it can, suggesting that further economic growth will produce little additional employment.
Prof. Robert Hall of Stanford University, after studying business cycles and current unemployment data, has concluded that, "Anyone who wants a job and is plausibly attractive to employers can find a job within a half-dozen weeks of searching." This may sound cavalier, given the fact that about five million people say they can't find suitable work. But economists across the political spectrum share Professor Hall's view.
THEN there are the long-term unemployed -- those who can't get hired even in the tightest labor markets. These people may be poorly educated, or have spotty work records or a history of crime. They may live in urban areas too far from suburban jobs for which they might qualify.
It is unclear how many of the long-term unemployed would find work if the economy continues to prosper. In the late 1960's, about 0.2 percent of the work force was unemployed for six months or more. Today the figure is three times higher. This suggests that a healthy economy alone may be incapable of reducing long-term unemployment to the levels achieved in the 1960's. This group might need other kinds of help like Government-provided training or subsidized jobs, though the record of such programs is hardly inspiring.
But if statistics for the temporary and long-term unemployed suggest that joblessness may have been driven as low as it can go, another jobless category appears to hold promise: the non-employed. This group includes all the unemployed plus those who don't bother looking for work and thus aren't counted among the jobless. These people may choose not to work, or may be physically or mentally incapable of holding jobs. Or they may be discouraged from seeking work because employers constantly reject their applications or because they are offered inadequate wages.
Among men aged 25 to 55, the non-employment rate is about 11 percent, compared with about 6 percent during the 1960's. Since there is no strong evidence that the rate of physical and mental disability has risen, it's worth asking whether the extra 5 percentage points -- several million people -- can be helped by a growing economy.
Robert H. Topel and Kevin Murphy of the University of Chicago think so. They say that most of those who dropped out of the labor force since the 1960's were low-skilled workers who gave up looking for jobs because of plummeting wages. Among men without a college education, wages have fallen about 25 percent over the past 25 years after accounting for inflation. But for the last two years wages for these workers have risen by 2 percent or 3 percent after inflation. Further economic expansion could bring a continued rise in pay and an attractive alternative for millions who have left the work force.
Other economists are more skeptical. A recent study by Richard B. Freeman of Harvard University and William M. Rodgers 3d of the College of William and Mary found that even in areas of the country with very tight labor markets, overall non-employment rates barely budged throughout the 1990's. That might suggest that relatively few non-working Americans would be drawn to work by an expanding economy.
And Gary Burtless of the Brookings Institution notes that income and other types of support for non-working people, like disability insurance payments, are much higher now than in the 1960's.
But the Freeman-Rodgers study cites one group that has made significant gains in tight labor markets: young black men without a college education, whose non-employment rate fell from 48 percent to 36 percent between 1992 and 1998. Though adult men barely registered gains in employment or earnings in the regions with tight labor markets, the earnings of young men -- including blacks without a college education -- rose by about 10 percent.
"The implication is that a long extended boom can go a long way to resolving the African-American youth employment problem," the report said.
Mr. Burtless points to another disadvantaged group that has been helped by the robust economy: single mothers, whose non-employment rate fell from 43 percent to 31 percent from 1992 to 1998. Mr. Burtless says that sharp improvement is due in part to welfare reform but also to a healthy economy.
HERE'S one encouraging reading of the tea leaves, even if it's unlikely that overall unemployment will dip much further: Those groups in the worst economic shape -- unskilled young black men and single mothers -- respond well to tight labor markets and would benefit from future economic prosperity.
And economists note that as more young black men and single mothers are absorbed into the labor force, they will gain work experience that will prove attractive to future employers and help them weather the next recession.
The strong economy has started to do for these groups what Government training programs have not accomplished: provide substantially higher earnings and employment. And if the economic boom continues for a few years, there is a chance it will do wonders for the disadvantaged workers who need help the most.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The nation's economic boom has reached into some unexpected corners: a new Starbucks store in Harlem. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BLACKS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; HIRING AND PROMOTION; HISPANIC-AMERICANS UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); VIETNAM WAR (50%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M ROBERT HALL (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



271 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: The World: Double Vision;
Two Views Of Inhumanity Split the World, Even in Victory

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
IT was a signal week for the West, no doubt about it. Fifty-four years after the Holocaust revelations, America and Europe had finally said "enough," and struck a blow against a revival of genocide.
Serbian ethnic cleansers were now routed; ethnic Albanians would be spared further murders and rapes. Germany was exorcising a few of its Nazi ghosts. Human rights had been elevated to a military priority and a pre-eminent Western value.
There was so much to applaud -- European unity, American technology, British spine, the stiff upper lips of the Greeks and Italians -- that it was easy to overlook the fact that much of the world was sitting on its hands. 
 Americans, flush with victory over Communism and inhumanity, think ever more reflexively that their values are the world's. In economics, that often is true. But to many other nations, the Kosovo atrocities that Germany equated with its own past and President Clinton labeled "vicious" and "terrifying" were just the broken eggs of yet another national omelet, and the West was a self-righteous, ever-more-meddlesome cook.
Chief among the nations that see Kosovo this way is Russia, and that is hardly a harbinger of smooth sailing in future efforts to right moral wrongs around the world.
True, Russia joined the diplomacy that forced Serbia's retreat from Kosovo and allowed 78 days of bombing to end. And its leaders promised to cooperate in peacekeeping -- even though a Russian unit rushed into Kosovo before NATO wanted it there.
But that is not the same thing as saying Russia shares the West's view that Kosovo is a turning point away from ethnic blood baths and toward harmony, even if at Western gunpoint. Quite the opposite: The war only underscored the deep ideological divide between an idealistic New World bent on ending inhumanity and an Old World equally fatalistic about unending conflict.
Woodrow Wilson tried to bridge that gap 81 years ago at Versailles, and failed. These days, his faith in internationalist ideals seems to be shared -- at least in their own backyard -- by the same British, French and Germans who were that day's nationalist cynics.
GO beyond Central Europe, however, and the world still seems rooted at Versailles, dismissing the notion of universal rights as wonderful in concept, and a foolish vanity in practice.
So the anti-West club is a big one -- not just perennial bad actors like Syria, Libya and Iraq, but rivals like China and even democracies like Russia and India. They are not motivated by love for Slobodan Milosevic -- by and large, they also find him and his tactics repulsive -- but by a conviction that bloodlettings like the one in Kosovo are internal matters; that it's arrogant and foolish to thrust yourself into someone else's war; that the safe and even humane course for the world usually is to let the two sides duke it out alone.
Put baldly, there is also a yawning gap between the West and much of the world on the value of a single life. Much of the world is still Hobbesian, looking to strongmen to impose order on lives that are nasty, brutish and short.
"It's the concept that the state as an entity is much more important than the life of one human being," said Yevgenia Albats, an author and independent journalist who writes about human rights issues here. "Pinochet is a hero in the press here. For a lot of writers, the fact that he killed 100,000 people before Chile had its economic miracle is just not a question."
THE West finds such views alien. But this war's epiphany may be that a lot of people around the world who drink Guinness, buy I.B.M. preferred and drive Audis just don't buy into Western notions of rights and responsibilities.
Consider the Russians, who by temperament, history and current attitudes are proving themselves the great case study for such attitudes.
"We're not only different countries; we're living in different dimensions," Leonid N. Dobrokhotov, an informal adviser to the Russian Communist Party leader, Gennady Zyuganov, said in a recent interview. "We have a completely different understanding of values. We're a very independent-minded people. Yes, maybe Saddam Hussein is the wrong guy. But let him live in his own country. If the Iraqis like it, it's their business. If they want to take him away and hang him, it's also their business."
The United States has absorbed this ideological slap in the face before, most recently from the Chinese. But America expects rebuffs from dictatorships like China. It is those new-found democrats, the Russians, who brought the message home in capital letters by turning overnight from ideological soulmates to embittered critics.
The first, most familiar explanation was that the Russians are the historic big Slavic brother to the Serbs. But that is only part of the story, and maybe not a big part. Moscow and Belgrade, after all, were estranged for most of the cold war.
No, more is at play here. In the words of the Russian Government -- and in the minds of many ordinary Russians -- it was NATO, not the Milosevic regime, that was a criminal organization, and NATO's air war, not ethnic cleansing, that was a humanitarian catastrophe.
No doubt the Russian backlash is rooted in part in Moscow's frustration at having to stand idly by at the drubbing of a country in its own backyard by its former enemies. But for Americans to view Moscow's anger as purely a political temper tantrum would be as mistaken as it is for Russians to view Kosovo as a Western land grab. For the truth is that Russians see Mr. Milosevic and Kosovo through an entirely different lens than do the United States and Western Europe.
Ethnic cleansing and forced migration are not exactly unknowns to Russians. Pogroms forced 1.5 million Russian Jews to flee at the turn of the century. And Nikita Khrushchev forcibly moved so many Russians to Kazakhstan that by 1959 native Kazakhs made up less than a third of the population. From Stalin on, Soviet policy was to dilute the Soviet Union's 80-odd ethnic groups by moving Russian citizens onto their territories, evicting them from homelands and drawing borders so as to split large ethnic groups in two.
Those carefully planned policies went south when the Soviet Union began to collapse, and nationalist strongmen began to take control. In 1988, United Nations officials say, a half-million Armenians and Azerbaijanis were driven back to homelands in each others' nations. In 1989, 60,000 Meskhetian Turks were forced out of Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan. In 1992 the Ossetians threw out tens of thousands of Inguish; hundreds of thousands of Tajiks fled Tajikistan. In 1995 scores of thousands died in a civil war in Chechnya.
Russians rapidly -- and correctly -- point out that these frenzies of ethnic retribution went virtually unnoticed by ordinary Westerners, and drew little more than hand-wringing from Western governments. And they wonder what is so different about Yugoslavia.
"Look at the leaders of almost all the newly independent states," said Sergei Rogov, the director of the Government's Institute of the U.S.A. and Canada. "Like Milosevic, they used to be leaders of the Communist Party before the collapse of Communism."
"And if you look at how they treat the ethnic minorities in the newly independent states, you'll see that Milosevic fits the pattern," he added. "He's not perceived as something outstanding."
But in Western Europe he is. Of course part of that is because Serbia is so close. Even as he declared victory Thursday, President Clinton added a caveat to the lessons of Kosovo for future ethnic cleansers: The world will act, he said, when "we can do something about it." But here, too, even more is at play.
Defeat, democratization and integration into Europe brought the Germans full circle. Unchecked slaughter in Bosnia and Rwanda shamed their neighbors into action. And now Western Europe has no stomach to watch Mr. Milosevic revive the bad memories, setting off ethnic expulsion and slaughters to consolidate the power of Serbs who don't like their neighbors.
Is that a step forward or a foolish vanity? Kosovo will be safe for Albanians, it seems, which is what 78 days of bombing were all about.
But nobody knows how many will return. Mr. Milosevic remains entrenched in Belgrade. Russia, burning at the popular notion that it has been a shill for NATO, is balking at Western efforts to oversee peacekeeping. And there is a new danger that radical Albanians will exact revenge on ordinary Serbs, starting the cycle anew.
It makes the Old World argument -- everyone does it; the world works this way; a few thousand Serbs or Albanians aren't important; it's none of our business -- seem almost attractive, even logical. It is not hard to envision the Russians nodding and saying, "Told you so."
Better to remember, however, that in attitude, if not behavior, Russia today is roughly whereBritain, Germany and France were 81 years ago. It took World War II to change the West's mind about inhumanity, and 50 years more to make that change of mind a commitment.
Ms. Albats, the journalist, says her nation needs time, too. "This is still imperial Russia," she said. "It's still the Soviet Union. The generation ruling this nation grew up in the Soviet Union, and you can't expect people to change their minds the way you change a rule on private property. But another generation is coming."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At home in 1995, Russians fought bitterly against Chechen separatists. (Agence France-Presse); As peacekeepers in Bosnia, Russians are intervening alongside NATO. (Craig Whitney/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); ALBANIA (92%); INDIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SYRIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION OLD WORLD BAKERY (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIA; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); SERBIA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); ALBANIA (92%); INDIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SYRIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS AND SECESSION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HOLOCAUST (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); PEACEKEEPING (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BOMBINGS (71%); POLITICS (67%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



272 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 4; Money & Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Business Best Sellers

 BODY:

HARDCOVER
 
This Month / Last Month 

1+ / 4 -- LIFE STRATEGIES by Phillip C. McGraw (Hyperion, $21.95). How to define and achieve goals in life and work.
 
2 / 9 -- THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE by Thomas L. Friedman (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50). A columnist and former correspondent for The Times explains the electronic global economy.
 
3+ / 1 -- THE COURAGE TO BE RICH by Suze Orman (Riverhead, $24.95). How to create a life of material and spiritual abundance.
 
4+ / 2 -- BUSINESS @ THE SPEED OF THOUGHT by Bill Gates with Collins Hemingway (Warner, $30). The chairman of Microsoft discusses how new technology is changing the ways business is done.
 
5+ / 3 -- THE NINE STEPS TO FINANCIAL FREEDOM by Suze Orman (Crown, $23). Ways to manage your money now and in the future.
 
6 / - -- HOME TOWN by Tracy Kidder (Random House, $25.95). A study of socioeconomic changes in Northampton, Mass.
 
7+ / 10 -- WHO MOVED MY CHEESE? by Spencer Johnson (Putnam, $19.95). Techniques for dealing with change in the workplace.
 
8 / 5 -- BEAUTY FADES, DUMB IS FOREVER by Judy Sheindlin (Cliff Street/HarperCollins, $22). Judge Judy of television fame counsels women on changing behavior and attitudes that thwart career progress.
 
9 / - -- SEUSS-ISMS FOR SUCCESS by Dr. Seuss (Random House, $6.99). Corporate wisdom culled from the writings of Dr. Seuss.
 
10 / 7 -- MORGAN: American Financier by Jean Strouse (Random House, $34.95). A biography of the daring and resourceful financier and art collector (1837-1913).
 
11*+ / - --FIRST, BREAK ALL THE RULES: What The World's Greatest Managers Do Differently by Marcus Buckingham and Curt Coffman (Simon & Schuster, $25). Based on 80,000 interviews.
 
12* / - -- WHY WE BUY by Paco Underhill (Simon & Schuster, $25). A report on consumer behavior by a retail anthropologist.
 
PAPERBACK
 
This Month / Last Month
 
1+ / 1 -- THE MILLIONAIRE NEXT DOOR by Thomas J. Stanley and William D. Danko (Pocket, $14). A look at wealthy Americans.
 
2 / 5 -- EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE by Daniel Goleman (Bantam, $13.95). Factors other than I.Q. that contribute to success.
 
3*+ / 4 -- A CIVIL ACTION by Jonathan Harr (Vintage, $13). A lawsuit brought by Massachusetts homeowners against industrial polluters.
 
4+ / - -- THE SEVEN HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE by Stephen R. Covey (Fireside/Simon & Schuster, $14). Tips for success.
 
5*+ / - -- CHICKEN SOUP FOR THE SOUL AT WORK compiled by Jack Canfield, Mark Victor Hansen, Maida Rogerson, Martin Rutte and Tim Clauss (Health Communications, $12.95). Inspiration.
 
Rankings are based on May figures of almost 4,000 bookstores and of wholesalers serving 50,000 hardcover retailers and 60,000 paperback retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets). The numbers are statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. *Indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. +Some bookstores report receiving bulk orders on these titles. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); LITERATURE (79%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); WRITERS (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); LITIGATION (70%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (67%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (62%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (60%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (57%); BILL GATES (54%); JUDGE JUDY SHEINDLIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



273 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: WORKING;
The Cost Of Recharging

BYLINE: By MICHELLE COTTLE; Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer.

 BODY:

Q. After 15 years of working in sales and marketing for a Fortune 100 company, I need to make a change. I will most likely seek a position in a similar field, but first I need a break from the pressure. I have all but decided to quit my job and take a two-month respite. But if I do so, how much more difficult will it be to find another job? And how can I improve my chances? 

A. Even in a strong economy, getting a new job is easier when you already have one. Proving that a resignation was entirely voluntary can be tough; some old-school employers still view any gap in your employment record as a warning flag, said Edward D. Hendricks, a management consultant in Bridgeport, Conn.
Rather than dropping out of the rat race, consider moving into the slow lane. Many companies grant sabbaticals. You might try finding part-time consulting work, suggested Ruth J. Luban, a career counselor in Laguna Beach, Calif. In some cases, she added, you can even work as a consultant to the very company that you're leaving.
If consulting seems too daunting, think about going back to school, Mr. Hendricks said. Pick a topic or two that captures your interest and has practical applications in your field. Consider courses in Web design, for example, or in information technology advances. "Look for something that a new prospective employer would see as valuable," he said.
Still too much pressure? You could try developing your own informal (and low-key) learning regimen. Many of us have stacks of new computer software or industry-related reading that we'd like to go through, Ms. Luban said. Catching up on changes in your field -- and related fields -- can improve your prospects.
Despite the drawbacks of an extended break, it can put you in a much better frame of mind for job-hunting.
"Burnout so erodes your energy and self-concept that you're only 50 percent available to go out and sell yourself," Ms. Luban said. By recharging and rediscovering your passion for your work, you can make a much better impression than if you go to interviews when you're "fried and tired," as she put it.
"The biggest thing with burnout is that it does not go away by itself," she said. And it will only get worse if you jump directly into another high-impact job.
When you start looking for a new position, don't be defensive about taking a break. "De-emphasize the time out," Ms. Luban said. "Go in really pushing that you're the right person for the job."
If -- or, more likely, when -- an interviewer raises the issue, "lead with a positive, pro-active spin and explain the reasons why your time off was so productive," she said. Especially in today's tight labor market, many employers may be more interested in your abilities and experience.
"If you have the right skill set," she said, "you're going to land somewhere fairly soon."
 
Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer. Each week, she responds to readers' questions about career and workplace issues. Send them by E-mail to working@nytimes.com or by mail to Working, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: WORKING MONEY&BUSINESS (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (69%); 

PERSON: COTTLE, MICHELLE RUTH J LUBAN (88%); EDWARD D HENDRICKS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



274 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Money & Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: JUNE 7-11;
At Last, Japan Has Reason to Cheer

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE 

 BODY:
After two long years of pent-up emotions, Japanese traders and investors were able to let it all out on Friday. In the heaviest trading day in more than a decade, Japanese stocks rose as investors applauded the surprising 1.9 percent gain in Japan's first-quarter gross domestic product.
 Domestic traders were joined by overseas buyers sniffing out companies that would benefit most from a turnaround in Japan's economy. For the week, the benchmark Nikkei index rose 5.5 percent. 
 "Foreigners are taking the G.D.P. numbers at face value and are buying steelmakers and other cheap large-capital stocks," Takashi Miyazaki, strategist at Partners Asset Management, told Bloomberg News.
 For a change, the positive sentiment had a ripple effect. Shares rose in Hong Kong after a three-quarter point interest-rate cut in China on Wednesday and the release of Japan's growth figures. The Hang Seng index was up 4.6 percent for the week.
 In London, investors generally ignored an unexpected quarter-point interest rate cut on Thursday and rallied to close the week 2 percent higher.
 In the United States, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 3 percent for the week. MICKEY MEECE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
 
Fannie Mae
nyse: fnm
The largest mortgage financier in the United States said that it had committed to buy $12.3 billion of mortgages in May, down from $20.1 billion in April. The decline came as interest rates rose.
Friday's Close -- $64.9843
Week'S Change -- -5.56%
EST. '99 P/E -- 17.63
 
Arm Holdings
nnm: armhy (A.D.R.'s)
Shares rose because the designer of chips for mo-bile phones is expected to benefit from an agree-ment among telecom-munications companies to work toward an Internet protocol.
Friday's Close -- $32.625
Week'S Change -- +19.18%
EST. '99 P/E -- 102.92
 
Memberworks
nnm: mbrs
A U.S. Bancorp unit end-ed a marketing relation-ship with the company, a membership program provider. The bank had been accused in a lawsuit of selling consumer data illegally.
Friday's Close -- $37.125
Week'S Change -- -8.62%
EST. '99 P/E -- 79.50
 
MGM Grand
nyse: mgg
The casino company, controlled by the financier Kirk Kerkorian, said it would offer $300 million to buy back as many as six million outstanding shares to increase its share price.
Friday's Close -- $46.50
Week'S Change -- +12.73%
EST. '99 P/E -- 28.06
 
Messagemedia
nnm: mesg
The provider of E-mail direct marketing announced two deals to broaden its services. It plans to buy Decisive Technology for $50 million in stock and Revnet Systems for $46 million in stock.
Friday's Close -- $11.875
Week'S Change -- +46.15%
EST. '99 P/E -- 118.75
 
Procter & Gamble
nyse: pg
The giant maker of household products like Tide detergent and Pampers diapers said that a major revamping and the related $1.9 billion in charges would not signifcantly help its profit this year.
Friday's Close -- $86.25
Week'S Change -- -10.74%
EST. '99 P/E -- 30.46
 
Richfood Holdings
nyse: rfh
Supervalu, a large food distributor, agreed to buy Richfood, the largest food distributor in the mid-Atlantic region, for $883 million in cash and stock. Supervalu will also assume $642 million of Richfood debt.
Friday's Close -- $17.6875
Week'S Change -- +33.49%
EST. '99 P/E -- 11.49
 
Ocular Sciences
nnm: oclr
The No. 2 maker of disposable contact lenses warned that second-half earnings might fall as much as 20 percent short of forecasts. Ocular cited price cuts and the new Acuvue lens from a big rival Johnson & Johnson.
Friday's Close -- $16.125
Week'S Change -- -41.63%
EST. '99 P/E -- 9.50
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); CHINA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); TRENDS (78%); BONDS (78%); INTEREST RATES (67%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (54%); 

PERSON: MEECE, MICKEY KIRK KERKORIAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



275 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Indonesia Changed, but Who Deserves the Credit?

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, June 12

 BODY:
"People say I look like a monkey," the President of Indonesia, B. J. Habibie, told an audience of schoolteachers not long ago. "But I don't care."
It was a strange moment of lese-majeste, described with a bemused shake of the head by Mr. Habibie's Minister of Education, Juwono Sudarsono. But this man, at once utterly un-self-conscious, effervescent, impulsive, scatterbrained, hyperactive and charming, is one of the most puzzling ever to rise to the forefront of public life in Indonesia, and one of the least understood. 
 This is the man who in the short space of one year overturned much of the repressive legacy of his predecessor and mentor, Suharto, and brought Indonesia galloping toward free elections and a new era of democracy.
Or is he?
Is Mr. Habibie responsible for freeing the press, bringing new respect for human rights and allowing dozens of political parties to compete on a newly open electoral playing field?
Or was he simply running scared, a weak leader helpless before a tidal wave of reform that swept all the country's politicians along with it?
Last Monday's parliamentary election was the capstone on a year of far-reaching transition that followed Mr. Suharto's forced resignation in May 1998. Already, people here seem to be taking their new freedoms for granted.
The outcome of Monday's vote is still unclear, with vote counting painfully slow. Whatever the result, Mr. Habibie may well be one of the leading candidates for President in an electoral assembly that will meet later this year, although few people, even in his own party, are touting him as a great reformer.
Most Indonesians seem rather to think that reform belongs to them, not to Mr. Habibie -- that it is a huge national movement born out of decades of frustration and that no one leader can lay claim to it.
If anyone can, perhaps, it may be Mr. Suharto himself, who fostered the economic development that allowed the nation to mature, to learn and then to reject his paternalistic form of leadership. In a way, the new post-Suharto era is also an extension of the old Suharto era, which ended in a blaze of violent protest that forced its maker from office.
Daniel S. Lev, an expert on Indonesia at the University of Washington, said, "It's hard to point to anything Habibie has come up with on his own."
"All he did, basically, was to recognize a whole bunch of faits accomplis," he said. "Free expression was hardly a gift; there was no way to stop it. He was under terrific pressure to come up with new laws, to get people out of jail and so on. These are concessions more than anything else. The guidance came from the streets."
The nation's post-colonial founder, Sukarno, was a father figure who gave Indonesia its identity. His successor, Mr. Suharto, developed the bureaucracy and brought economic growth. It will be the turn of the next President to begin the process of implanting democratic institutions and the rule of law, political analysts said.
In the interim, some analysts concede, Mr. Habibie may have been the right man for the moment -- pragmatic, optimistic and well versed in democratic values from his many years working as an aerospace engineer in West Germany.
Even his political weakness may have been an advantage, Mr. Juwono said. "In this period of openness, the last thing you want is a strong President. In a way, you could say his weakness is his strength."
But it is also true that Mr. Habibie's weakness is his weakness. By his nature, Mr. Habibie is a hard man to take seriously.
A shocking contrast to his studiously enigmatic predecessor and mentor, Mr. Habibie seems to be bubbling over with ideas that his aides say are sometimes brilliant, sometimes nutty.
"Habibie's problem as President is that people neither respect him nor fear him," a Western diplomat said.
This is a particular handicap in a nation that is accustomed to being governed by a powerful personality.
Mr. Juwono was also a Cabinet minister under Mr. Suharto and he seemed still to be under his spell, speaking of "the density of his silence."
"He would stare you in the face and create a sense of awe," Mr. Juwono recalled in a recent interview. "It was his presence and his stare. He looked right through you. Every five years, 1,000 people met in a congress and there was not one who was brave enough to stand up and say, 'Enough.' "
Mr. Habibie has another problem. Correctly or not, most people see him as a vestige of a despised old order who must be pushed aside before the country can truly move on.
His personal association with Mr. Suharto is strong. Mr. Suharto virtually adopted him as a boy and later brought him into public service as his Minister for Technology and Development. Three months before he resigned, Mr. Suharto named his friend to be Vice President.
There is an unanswered puzzle here. Though he was one of Mr. Suharto's oldest and closest friends and most obedient servants, it was Mr. Habibie who began almost from his first day in office uprooting the structure Mr. Suharto had built over three decades in power.
Although he remained studiously respectful of Mr. Suharto in his public comments, there may have been a personal rupture at the end. Aides say Mr. Habibie was badly hurt by a public display of disdain when Mr. Suharto presented his vice presidency as a sort of sick joke on the country.
Mr. Suharto warned critics explicitly, in so many words, "Watch out. If you drive me from power this is what you'll get."
The international financial markets responded in kind. It was on the day Mr. Habibie was named Vice President that the currency, the rupiah, fell to its lowest point, 17,000 to the dollar, less than one-sixth of its earlier value.
Mr. Habibie's claims to being a reformer have two weak points, both of them connected to Mr. Suharto's legacy. First, his Government has dodged and prevaricated in the face of public calls for an investigation of Mr. Suharto's stolen wealth. Second, he has allowed the military to evade calls for thorough investigations of past misconduct, putting only a few low-ranking officers on trial.
From one perspective, Mr. Habibie has virtually defined his presidency by overturning the Suharto legacy. But from another, he has shied away from directly challenging the abuses of the Government of which he was a key member.
As time passes and today's political battles fade, people here may begin to remember Mr. Habibie with affection as an eager and well-meaning man who met the needs of his day.
If nothing else, he gave Indonesians the freedom to laugh again, particularly at their President, and he laughed along with them.
Asked about criticisms that Mr. Habibie's possible successor as President, Megawati Sukarnoputri, may not be smart enough, a television commentator, Wimar Witoelar, offered a witticism that is now repeated everywhere.
"We already have a rocket scientist as President," he said, "and look where we are now."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President B. J. Habibie, right, with Satrio Billy Yudhoyono, chairman of the State Audit Agency, was there for Indonesia's reforms. The question remains whether he led the charge or ran scared in the right direction. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Indonesia shows location of Jakarta: The President responded in Jakarta to pressure for new laws.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (68%); LEGISLATION (64%); RIOTS (60%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; HABIBIE, B J (PRES); SUHARTO (FORMER PRES)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



276 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Latin America's Birth Surprise

 BODY:
Four months from now, the world's population is expected to hit six billion. Although it will continue to soar for decades to come, the population would be far higher if the last 30 years had not brought a significant drop in fertility in many regions. The drop is not surprising in rich countries and newly wealthy East Asian nations such as Taiwan and Singapore. More remarkable is the fertility drop in Latin America. A Times article last week detailed the change in Mexico, and similar gains have been made throughout the region. In the mid-1960's, Latin American women averaged more than 6 children. Today the average is 2.9. The benefits of smaller families are seen not only in a better life for children and their parents, but also in an increased savings rate and less cost to the state.
Latin America today is not markedly wealthier than in 1965. But its women have much higher levels of education, access to health care and employment. Latin American nations must do more to reduce their birth rates, but they are ahead of South Asia and especially Africa. Even as those regions struggle to get richer, they could reap the benefits of smaller families by making contraception available and emphasizing women's basic well-being. 
 Mexico's family-planning campaign is the major one initiated by a government. In 1974, Mexico established a network of clinics, and Government-sponsored billboards touting the benefits of small families are ubiquitous. In the rest of Latin America, governments reluctant to defy the Catholic Church have mainly left family planning to private groups, most of which got their start with financing from the United States Agency for International Development and the International Planned Parenthood Federation. Today, those groups are trying to become self-sufficient, as donors switch their focus to South Asia and Africa. They have also been hurt by hundreds of millions of dollars in cuts for overseas family planning engineered by Republicans in Congress.
The acknowledged leader is Colombia's Profamilia, founded in 1965. Profamilia has been a pioneer in many now-common techniques -- the use of radio to promote family planning, a network of trained volunteers offering contraceptives and information door to door, mobile sterilization vans and now special clinics for men. The most remote Colombian village has a bodega stocking Profamilia's pills and condoms. Now Profamilia, with grants from the Dutch Government and the United Nations, is training others.
Contraceptives became available because Latin American women demanded them as they began to get more education. Today, unlike any other region in the developing world, Latin American girls are just as likely as boys to be in school, except in the most rural areas.
Growing urbanization, which turns children from economic asset to burden, and increasing job opportunities for women have helped reduce the birth rate. In many nations, there has also been an expansion of social security, which lessens the need for children as old-age insurance. In addition, millions have had their first exposure to doctors and modern medicine.
Even television may have played a role. The evidence is strongest in Brazil, which, surprisingly, has a lower birth rate than its richer and better-educated neighbors. Vilmar Faria, a Brazilian sociologist, and Joseph Potter, a University of Texas sociologist, argue that the drop in fertility tracks the spread of television -- dominated by the universally popular nightly soap operas known as telenovelas. For many poor, the telenovelas provided their first glimpse of small, less authoritarian families and of consumer culture. Women realized they could choose fewer children, and that children had a cost.
For all the machismo in Latin America, women there have gained substantially more rights and better treatment than women in the rest of the developing world. The region's experience shows that this is the most important key to limiting the population explosion. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (97%); ASIA (94%); MEXICO (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); TAIWAN (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA TODAY (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (97%); ASIA (94%); MEXICO (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); TAIWAN (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FAMILY PLANNING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); WOMEN (89%); CONTRACEPTION (87%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (77%); PARENTING (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); URBANIZATION (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); VOLUNTEERS (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



277 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Swiss Will Decide if Motherhood Warrants Salary Protection

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, June 12

 BODY:
The Swiss will decide on Sunday whether to provide new mothers with the kind of salary protections that every other Western European country affords women after they give birth.
While such benefits are tenuous in the United States, they are common in Europe. Only Switzerland fails to guarantee a woman's salary following childbirth -- even though it requires by law that women take eight weeks off after having a baby. 
 The Netherlands grants new mothers between 16 and 68 weeks off at 100 percent guaranteed salary. Britain allows 18 weeks at 90 percent of wages, Austria allows up to two years at reduced wages, with a guarantee of the same job back, and the Scandinavian countries all have generous benefits. Even tiny Liechtenstein guarantees new mothers 12 weeks off at 80 percent pay.
Opponents argue that money for the new benefits would come from state coffers, which are already strained by above-average unemployment.
The proposal would require employers to grant a 14-week leave at 80 percent salary and allow mothers in lower income families -- regardless of whether they work -- a certain sum for "maternity leave."
The proposal is part of a packet of options, including whether to toughen Swiss asylum laws and to continue to subsidize heroin treatment, being put before voters in Switzerland's direct democracy system.
The maternity benefits were approved in principle in 1945, but the Swiss have voted down three attempts -- in 1971, 1984 and 1987 -- to put the policy into practice.
"If there were a Nobel Prize for patience, it would be given to Swiss women," Switzerland's President, Ruth Dreifuss, said in launching a campaign for the benefits.
"There is no real maternity benefit for a young woman today, even though it was promised to her grandmother," she said. "Fifty-four years of waiting, that's enough."
She and the Justice Minister, Ruth Metzler -- neither of whom has children -- have campaigned energetically for the proposal.
Among its opponents is a conservative, Veronique Fontana, a mother and lawyer in Lausanne.
"It's a family choice," she said in an interview. "I worry when people tell me this will make the difference whether they have a child or not."
She said that most Swiss women are insured against income loss after pregnancy and that welfare benefits are already generous.
In fact, some Swiss women already benefit from ample maternity plans. For instance, the canton of Vaud, just east of Geneva, allows women 16 weeks of leave at full salary. According to Government statistics, employers in Switzerland provide maternity benefits totaling some $225 million a year.
But workplace conditions vary widely in Switzerland, where federal statistics say that women are often paid up to 30 percent less than men.
The benefits' backers say the annual cost, estimated at $333 million, could be met from surplus Government funds and a small sales tax increase. Employers are fighting against the benefits, arguing that they would add to labor costs.
Last month, on Mother's Day, Ms. Dreifuss told a rally that women should be able to become mothers without worrying about money. Her call came two days after a poll indicated that most voters favored increasing maternity support. Later polls have been less definitive. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (98%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); WESTERN EUROPE (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); LIECHTENSTEIN (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (71%); AUSTRIA (57%); 

STATE: VAUD, SWITZERLAND (91%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND; SWITZERLAND (98%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (91%); WESTERN EUROPE (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); LIECHTENSTEIN (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (71%); AUSTRIA (57%); VAUD, SWITZERLAND (91%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; FAMILY LEAVES WAGES & SALARIES (93%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); MATERNITY LEAVE (90%); WOMEN (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); STATISTICS (75%); FAMILY (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); APPROVALS (67%); HEROIN (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (51%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%); NOBEL PRIZES (50%); 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH RUTH DREIFUSS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



278 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: REFUGEES;
Aid Agencies Shift Focus To the Needs Inside Border

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: KUKES, Albania, June 12

 BODY:
The refugees stopped arriving only three days ago, but now, like trying to turn around a battleship, the aid agencies handling the 120,000 Kosovo Albanians in this border town are having to reverse focus to the refugees' safe return -- plus preparing to feed and help shelter an estimated 500,000 Albanians still inside Kosovo.
"This has not been the biggest refugee movement, and it's not been the worst emergency, but it's shaping up to be by far the most complex," said Rupert Colville, a spokesman for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. 
 Although aid organizations say there is no evidence so far of starvation, refugees crossing the border in recent days say they left family members behind who had run out of food.
One refugee who had been imprisoned by the Serbs and then released this week near the Albanian border, and who said he was too frightened to give his name, said he was worried about his wife and six children left behind in the village of Zhabar I Ulet in northern Kosovo.
"For three days they didn't have anything to eat," he said. "They didn't have enough flour to make bread."
Relief agencies say they have heard reports of Kosovo Albanian "displaced persons," as they call them, hiding in the mountains but moving from hamlet to hamlet looking for something to eat. "They've been scavenging in empty houses," said Anna DiLellio, a spokeswoman for the World Food Program.
Two weeks ago, a United Nations mission in Kosovo determined that on top of widespread destruction -- burned houses, destroyed roads and bridges -- one third of the arable land in Kosovo had not been cultivated this year. In addition, Serbian forces had taken over the main World Food Program warehouse in Kosovo, where they were said to be charging the equivalent of $2.50 for a pound of sugar -- an astronomical price in impoverished Kosovo. They also have reportedly shot cows, goats and sheep. "I think -- forget milk," Ms. DiLellio said.
Although only a few relief workers are to go into Kosovo from Albania on Sunday behind NATO troops, United Nations aid agencies are preparing to establish offices in seven cities in Kosovo within the next weeks. The World Food Program expects they will find that many people in Kosovo have no electricity and water and are unable to cook and so has readied 1.5 million ready-to-eat daily meals intended to last three months.
The ration comes in a yellow plastic bag, with "Food Gift from the People of the United States" printed prominently on the front, in three different varieties, or "menus" that contain a one-day supply of food.
Menu No. 3 contains a compressed rice loaf, shrink-wrapped in thick plastic, that tastes like a dry, cinnamon-flavored rice pudding. It also includes a shrink-wrapped rice with vegetables in sauce, a fruit pastry bar, vegetable crackers, shortbread cookies, blackberry jam, peanut butter and a book of matches (for smokers) with an American flag and "U.S.A." on the cover.
Today aid agencies continued to prepare returning refugees about the danger of land mines, many of which are thought to have been placed in the border area. Tehnaz J. Dastoor, Unicef's specialist in land mines, and Eric M. Filippino, a demining expert from Geneva, held a class this afternoon at the Unicef office here to educate a group of 16 Kosovo Albanian youths, elected "representatives" from five of the refugee camps here.
They also showed the representatives posters warning about land mines that are to go up in the refugee camps and asked for their opinions about them -- in essence, test-marketing.
"What is the first thing you thought when you saw it?" Mr. Filippino asked the group about a poster showing a land mine with a large hand covering its spike that simultaneously prevents a small child's foot from stepping on it.
"You must be careful when you walk," said Sanije Seferaj, 23, an economics student from Pristina, the Kosovo capital, who now lives in the Kukes I refugee camp.
Aid workers here are nervously hopeful that the refugees will heed the lessons and return slowly but are worried about the possibility of a chaotic rush to the border after NATO troops go in. Although NATO will be clearing the main paved road toward Pristina of mines, the troops will not get to the fields and smaller roads for some time.
"Most of the roads in Kosovo are dirt roads," said Ms. Dastoor. "It's going to be a huge process." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); ALBANIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (92%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (92%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KUKES (ALBANIA); KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (96%); ALBANIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES REFUGEES (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); STARVATION (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (73%); DISPLACED PERSONS (73%); MOUNTAINS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: BUMILLER, ELISABETH

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



279 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: A Feeding Frenzy For the Epicure;
A Question as Fancy Markets Multiply: Who's Eating All That Caviar?

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
The astonishing explosion of New York City's specialty food markets began as a gustatory version of Genesis: in the beginning there was Balducci's, Dean & DeLuca and Zabar's. And they were good. And culinary darkness no longer blighted the face of Manhattan. And the merchants said: let there be more.
And so there was Vinegar Factory and Gourmet Garage and Eli's Manhattan and Healthy Pleasures and Grace's Marketplace and Agata & Valentina and Garden of Eden Farmers Markets and Amish Manhattan Farmers Markets and a grand mitosis of Greenmarkets. 
 And they were good. But just how much of a good thing can you have before it becomes, well, bad? Is the city now the world's capital of gourmet glut?
"There is just so much stuff for sale, it can be really confusing," said Chris Sadoff, a violinist who has lived on West 73d Street for two decades and has watched her neighborhood become a microcosm of the city's galloping gastronomy. "Who are these people living on caviar all the time? I'm not sure why all these stores are opening."
She was peering into the new addition at Fairway on Broadway and 74th Street, now the epicenter of a fiercely competitive seven-block food fight on the West Side of Manhattan. In coming weeks the market, which has expanded three times since 1975, will complete its incursion into the two-story space that was once the no man's land between no-frills Fairway and its primordial rival, Citarella, where fish, meats, poultry and produce are arrayed like jewelry on two floors at the corner of West 75th Street.
Only 60 paces to the south of Fairway, Food Emporium -- perhaps aspiring to capitalize on the hungry hordes from Donald Trump's Riverside South development -- established its 22d upscale beachhead in December. The store even has a green-and-white-uniformed doorman with a gold-braided cap who calls cabs for customers. He directs shoppers to the sleek escalator that takes them down to the anti-Fairway: a cheerful 21,000-square-foot basement space.
And to the north, plugging the Broadway gap between Citarella and the legendary Zabar's on West 80th Street, the unlegendary Westside Supermarket gives customers yet another shopping option at the corner of West 77th Street.
In the bull-market, fin-de-siecle rush to excess, the city's gourmet generals have been seizing strategic territory. A year after the perpetually expanding Fairway leapfrogged north to establish a bastion at 132d Street and 12th Avenue, Citarella opened a satellite across town from its main store, at 75th Street and Third Avenue; Citarella has leased another space in Grand Central Station.
And Gourmet Garage -- the warehouse-style purveyor that provides specialty foods to 180 restaurants, including Le Cirque 2000 and the Four Seasons -- has cloned itself in four Manhattan locations since 1992. "We are expanding aggressively, and our plan is to do two or three new stores a year," said John S. Gottfried, a partner, who said he has made offers on two new properties.
Eli Zabar's Vinegar Factory on East 91st Street, which was originally opened by Gourmet Garage and taken over by its landlord, Mr. Zabar, has siblings at Eli's Manhattan on Third Avenue at 80th Street, and E.A.T. on Madison Avenue at 80th.
Balducci's has planned to establish suburban satellites. Balducci family feuds led to a diaspora and the establishment of the high-end Agata & Valentina at 79th Street and First Avenue (which recently doubled its space) as well as the upscale Grace's Marketplace at 71st Street and Third Avenue, which also has expanded and added a butcher.
Whole Foods Market has leased 40,000 square feet of space on Seventh Avenue and 24th Street for a blockbuster organic food market. Healthy Pleasures on University Place in the Village, which claims to be the city's largest natural foods store, has opened a satellite in SoHo on Broome Street.
Amish Manhattan Farmers Market in Hell's Kitchen opened a sibling on East 45th Street near Third Avenue, and just this month unveiled another at Cedar Street. And the two Garden of Eden Farmers Markets, in Gramercy Park and Chelsea, are planning an outpost on West 14th Street.
The food retailing frenzy leaves some shoppers all epicured out. "I have five places now where I can buy cheese instead of two," said Nora Ephron, the director and writer, who lives in the Zabar's orbit and who shot scenes there for her most recent film, "You've Got Mail." "At first I thought, well, someone will go out of business, but apparently there is no telling how much food you can sell."
While many consumers are benefiting from runaway variety, new challenges are being posed by the New York's superabundance of brie. "It is very easy to go into one of these places and walk out with a small bag that costs you $100," said Tim Zagat, whose latest New York City Marketplace Survey has just been published, an overview of 1,360 food purveyors.
Hardy specialty food shoppers have refined their coping strategies. Especially scorned by the store owners are the bargain-hunting cherry pickers, who "go for sale items," said one store manager. "We don't make any money on them."
Then there's the uptown strategy. David Brody, an entomologist at the American Museum of Natural History, walks north along "the strip," as he calls it, heading from the Food Emporium to Zabar's. "I check the price, I see what's fresh, what looks good. It's entertainment."
Contrarily, Mildred Grant favors the downtown search, starting at 75th Street. "I just start at Citarella and work my way south," she said, winding up at Food Emporium, owned by the Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company, "for sales and staples." She smiled. "I was born to shop."
There are even those so victimized by gourmet glut that they totally opt out of high-end shopping. "It's too crazy here," said Nina Rhodes, a West Side resident for 20 years, as she glanced past the sidewalk flower stand to the frenzy within Fairway. "I just go to the A.& P on West End Avenue and 70th, where it's not so hectic."
These days, shoppers are not only sought after, but studied. "You need a population of about 14,000 upper-income people to support one of these stores," said Mr. Gottfried of Gourmet Garage. With their high-margin offerings and prepared foods, specialty markets can soar: their competitors estimate that Zabar's and Fairway, only six blocks apart, each take in $50 million in revenue each year.
Still, the current market proliferation is surprising, given the hard realities of the business. Yearly retail rents of $100 to $150 a square foot in Manhattan make opening new stores prohibitively expensive in the fickle, labor-intensive grocery business. Worse, experts say that for every 10 feet of selling space, a store needs about 3 feet of nonproductive storage and preparation space.
Furthermore, merchants cannot throw in a few tubs of Kumomoto oysters just anywhere and reap a windfall. Mr. Gottfried estimated that the market for Manhattan specialty food stores is "about 80 percent saturated, but there are still neighborhoods that haven't been penetrated."
Beyond this, the city's retail specialty food economy, which analysts estimate at close to $300 million, "is incredibly competitive," said Saul Zabar, president of Zabar's, the gastronomic landmark that has been around since 1936. "We are always running scared here, and we have to be on our toes more than ever. That said, all I know is that we are selling substantially more fish and prepared foods than we did last year."
Although the turf battles can get sort of ugly (Fairway and Citarella actually engaged in an awning war this year), even fierce competitors see an advantage in proximity. "We overlap with Fairway's customers," said Mindy A. Birnbaum, a spokeswoman for Citarella, when asked about the Fairway expansion. "So if more people come to the block, then we're bound to benefit."
Citarella's archrival was no less optimistic. "I think there is an infinite market for the good operators," said Howard Glickberg, an owner of Fairway. "The Red Apples, the Sloan's, they draw 90 percent of their customers from a four-block area. But we draw from all over."
Indeed, the specialty merchants are such a draw that bus companies are mounting day trips for food worshipers. "Our first stop is Zabar's," said Greg Abbott, a spokesman for Dattco in New Britain, Conn., which conducts a "Noshing Tour" of Manhattan 20 times a year. After about 50 foodies per bus load have descended on Zabar's, they head back into their red-and-white M.C.I. tour bus and proceed to Balducci's. That is followed by a visit to Guss's Lower East Side Pickles, a tour of Chinatown markets and finally a stroll through Little Italy.
But academics are traveling even greater distances. "My students ooh and aah in these markets," said Nancy Graham, an assistant professor in the hospitality department of Morehead State University in Morehead, Ky. She and her daughter stood near the $2.99-a-pound New Zealand pears at Fairway and explained that they had brought 13 of their hotel students to New York to research the exotic markets of the natives, starting at Balducci's and working their way up to Zabar's.
Given such interest, some insist that New York markets are poised to conquer the nation. "Whatever food you may want in Sioux City, Iowa, you can have it delivered in less than 24 hours, through mail order and the Internet," Mr. Zagat said. "Soon every major store in New York will be on line and available to the entire country."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the west side of Broadway between 74th and 75th Streets, Fairway and Citarella go head to head. And it takes only a short walk for food shoppers to find plenty of other options. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. 52); For Refined Palates -- In the late 70's, only three high end, full service specialty stores registered on Manhattan's elite gastronomic map: Balducci's in the Village, Dean and Deluca in Soho and Zabar's on the Upper West Side. Today, there are dozens offering a stupefying supply of exotic - and often expensive-food. At right, shoppers carrying a smorgasboard of bags after foraging along Broadway on the Upper West Side. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. 47)
 
Maps show sites of high-end specialty food stores in the late 70's and now. (pg. 47)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS445299 ALL OTHER SPECIALTY FOOD STORES (85%); SIC5499 MISCELLANEOUS FOOD STORES (85%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (85%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: BALDUCCI'S (MANHATTAN FOOD STORE); DEAN & DELUCA (NYC STORE); ZABAR'S (NYC STORE) CITARELLA (85%); FOOD EMPORIUM (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALDUCCI'S (MANHATTAN FOOD STORE); DEAN & DELUCA (NYC STORE); ZABAR'S (NYC STORE)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD SPECIALTY FOOD STORES (90%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (77%); MEATS (75%); POULTRY (73%); DRESSING & SAUCE MFG (56%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN DONALD TRUMP (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



280 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Competing Plans to Help Working Poor

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
Only weeks after they infuriated Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani by abolishing the city's commuter tax, Gov. George E. Pataki and the State Legislature are now hinting that they may impede his plan to give a tax break to the working poor.
The proposal, an earned-income tax credit for families who make less than $30,000 a year, is one of three tax cuts to survive in the budget that Mr. Giuliani and the City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, have proposed for the fiscal year that begins July 1. The Mayor, a Republican, and Mr. Vallone, a Democrat, had been seeking an array of tax cuts worth hundreds of millions of dollars, but abandoned nearly all of them because of the repeal of the commuter tax for New York State residents. The repeal, which is being challenged in court, would cost the city up to $360 million a year. 
 In the $35.3 billion budget they agreed on last week, they clung to three tax breaks totaling $348 million: the earned-income tax credit, which would save 600,000 families an average of $100 a year; an extension of a tax relief program for owners of co-ops and condominiums, and a repeal of the sales tax on clothing that costs less than $110.
Mr. Pataki and the Legislature, whose approval is required for all tax cuts enacted in New York City, signed off on the sales tax initiative last year.
But the proposal for the $48 million earned-income tax credit, which would be the first in the nation offered by a city, comes at a time when legislative leaders in Albany want to spend at least $170 million to expand a similar tax credit offered by the state. City and state lawmakers both want to pay for their proposals with Federal welfare money that has piled up in the state treasury as the state's welfare rolls have declined.
State legislators have proposed using the surplus not only for the expanded tax credit, but also for a number of other state programs to keep the working poor off welfare. They also want to set aside a large portion of the surplus in case an economic downturn increases the welfare rolls.
The Giuliani administration says the city is entitled to a portion of the welfare surplus, which totals more than $1 billion, because it has generated most of the savings. But some state officials and advocates for the poor say the state's claim comes first. "The city is second in line behind the state for the money," said Russell Sykes, vice president of the State Communities Aid Association, which has been pushing for an increase in the state credit. "They have backed themselves into a corner by relying on a funding source that is very risky."
Aides to Sheldon Silver, the Assembly Speaker, and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, said that while they were not opposed to having earned-income tax credits at the city and state levels, they had reservations about sharing the welfare surplus with New York City. Michael McKeon, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, said only that a number of programs were competing for the surplus funds.
"There are a number of well-intentioned competing interests, the earned-income tax credit among them," Mr. McKeon said. "But we will be looking at the allocation of that funding within the context of the overall state budget."
The other city tax cut that needs state approval -- an extension of a property tax relief program for owners of co-ops and condominiums -- is already moving through the Republican-controlled Senate, said John McArdle, a spokesman. But it may be held up in the Assembly, because the Mayor attached it to another property tax bill that Mr. Silver, a Democrat, opposes.
The other bill would change the rules for challenging property tax assessments in New York City. Under state law, city property owners can use recent sales prices of comparable buildings to challenge their assessment. But city officials say recent sales prices are not the most accurate measure of a property's worth, because the city's real estate market is so volatile.
Mr. Giuliani's bill would change the rules so that property owners could challenge their assessment only if it did not accurately reflect their building's income and operating expenses. Mr. Silver is holding up the bill -- and with it, the tax break for co-op and condominium owners -- because he thinks it limits property owners' chances of winning challenges to unfair assessments, his aides said.
Aides to Mr. Giuliani said they linked the two property tax bills in hopes of getting both passed at once. But Patricia Lynch, a spokeswoman for Mr. Silver, said it was more likely that the Assembly would approve the co-op and condominium bill separately. The bill -- actually an extension of a tax abatement that has been in place for three years -- would save the owners of 285,000 dwellings an average of $600 a year.
But while city officials are worried about the fate of their property tax legislation, they appeared angrier last week about the resistance to their earned-income tax credit. Mr. Vallone questioned how state lawmakers could reject the city's request for a piece of the welfare surplus after stripping the city of commuter tax revenues. "They already put a deep hole in our budget," Mr. Vallone said. "I don't think they should be deepening that hole."
But Mr. Sykes of the State Communities Aid Association said it made more sense for the state to apply the surplus funds to its own earned-income tax credit, because the proposed increase would affect far more families than the city's plan. The expansion would increase the maximum credit per family to $1,127 from $751. About 1.1 million wage earners statewide qualify for the credit, and half of them live in New York City.
In comparison, about 600,000 households would qualify for the city's credit, with a maximum credit of $191 per family. Since the cost of the program -- $48 million -- is relatively small in the context of the city's $35 billion budget, the city should pay for it with its own money, Mr. Sykes said. "It's not a huge credit," he said. "Why can't the Giuliani administration absorb the cost?"
It could, said Douglas A. Criscitello, director of the city's Independent Budget Office. But city officials might prefer to let the tax cut die if Albany refuses to pay for it, he said, because state lawmakers -- already the target of New Yorkers' wrath because of the commuter tax repeal -- would probably get the blame.
"They've put the ball totally in Albany's court," Mr. Criscitello said. "So Albany gets the black eye."
City officials refused to say whether they would proceed with the tax cut if they were denied welfare surplus funds. But Joseph J. Lhota, the Deputy Mayor for Operations, said there was no question that the city deserved a piece of the surplus, because more of its residents have left the welfare rolls than those of any other city in the state. "Any distribution of that money that doesn't share it with the communities that helped create it would be unfortunate and unfair," Mr. Lhota said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); SALES TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FAMILY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (68%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



281 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: The 2 Koreas Are Unrelenting in Standoff Over Sea Border

BYLINE: Agence France-Presse 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Sunday, June 13

 BODY:
North Korean vessels staged tactical intrusions into disputed waters today, as South Korea struggled to avoid armed clashes ahead of crucial peace talks.
A flotilla of North Korean military and fishing vessels moved in and out of a buffer zone in the Yellow sea, trying the patience of South Korea's navy, military officials said. 
 The change came after South Korean vessels rammed North Korean boats Friday to push them out of the zone, which has been used by North Korean spies for infiltration.
"Forebearance is required in such a war of nerves," a South Korean Defense Ministry official said. "We are trying to prevent the weeklong standoff from escalating into clashes."
Today, up to seven North Korean military vessels intruded twice into the area guarded heavily by South Korean patrol boats and frigates, he said.
"They were returning to their waters whenever our vessels scrambled with warning signals."
The two Koreas have agreed to open high-level official talks in Beijing next week, as part of Seoul's drive to ease tension through gradual and peaceful engagement.
The breakthrough followed a trip to North Korea by a United States envoy, William Perry, with offers to provide economic and political benefits in return for a halt to nuclear development and military threats.
The last round of talks in Beijing 14 months ago broke down after North Korea refused to come up with a timetable for the reunion of families separated since the division of the Korean peninsula in 1945.
The sea row since Monday has heightened tensions between the two Koreas, still technically at war following their 1950-53 conflict. But Seoul stressed it should not disrupt the Beijing meeting.
The United Nations Command has urged North Korea to recognize a border line declared in 1953, describing the repeated intrusions as "a provocative act."
But the North's military turned down the United Nation Command's proposal, saying it was prepared to launch "self-defensive strikes."
South Korea has put the army, navy and air force on alert, dispatched dozens of ships, frigates and destroyers to the area and tightened air security checks.
Shore guns, guided missiles and submarines were also put on standby along with a special combat team.
The buffer zone is close to Seoul and has been tightly guarded by South Korea since the Korean conflict ended with no peace treaty signed. Seoul has warned Pyongyang the standoff could lead to an armed conflict.
Analysts and Western diplomats said the North looked ever more desperate to harvest crabs, which can be sold for hard cash.
But Pyongyang also appeared to be sabre-rattling ahead of the inter-governmental talks later this month, in a move aimed at winning concessions, they said.
The buffer zone was set up below the maritime border at the end of the 1950-53 war. There have been armed clashes in the same area. The northerners frequently enters the area in the lucrative crab season but usually leave when ordered by the South Korean military. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (87%); 

SUBJECT: NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA MILITARY VESSELS (91%); MARINE VESSELS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); KOREAN WAR (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); ARMIES (78%); NAVIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SHELLFISH FISHING (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); AIR FORCES (72%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM PERRY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



282 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Auctioning Off the Treasures of Ralph Kramden and Scarlett

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS 

 BODY:
What price memory? How much of today's cash does it take to own a vestige of yesterday's passion?
For someone else's Oscar, Michael Jackson paid $1,542,500 at Sotheby's yesterday. The singer's winning bid, for the gold-plated Best Picture statuette awarded in 1939 to the producer David O. Selznick for "Gone With the Wind," dwarfed the previous Oscar auction record of $607,500 paid in 1996. 
 But Mr. Jackson, whose own doodads have occasionally gone on the auction block and who has been known to bid on esoteric items like an obscure Sinclair Lewis novel, was not alone in taking nostalgia to inflationary heights.
For a slate-blue wool jacket and matching pants worn about 45 years ago by the overweight (49 1/2-inch waist, 49 3/4-inch chest) Brooklyn bus driver Ralph Kramden, a k a Jackie Gleason, an unidentified but obviously devoted fan of the "The Honeymooners" television shows paid $64,100.
Understandably, as he banged his gavel, the Sotheby's auctioneer murmured, "How sweet it is."
For a pink percale dress with ruffled sleeves and lace collar worn by Vivien Leigh as Atlanta burned in "Gone With the Wind," a darkly beautiful Brazilian woman in a black fishnet veil and prim black gloves paid $90,500.
She would identify herself only as Elizabeth, the proud owner of trunkloads of Ms. Leigh's hats and clothing and a Sao Paolo restaurant named, not surprisingly, Scarlett's.
Deepening the mystery with hyperbole, her 11-year-old son, Rodrigo, said his mother was famous back home not only for greeting her customers in full Southern belle gloved-and-petticoated regalia, but also for having seen "Gone With the Wind" upward of 8,000 times since her first fateful encounter with the movie 31 years ago, when she was an impressionable 8-year-old girl.
And finally, although perhaps on a slightly different scale, a Manhattan psychologist recaptured a bit of his childhood for $1,035, buying a wooden mural of a clown and a dashing bejeweled couple riding a carpet through the clouds that once adorned the Magic Carpet ride at Coney Island.
"It was more thrilling than any roller coaster," said Barry S. Lubetkin, recalling how the whole chair of the ride collapsed and left its screeching occupant involuntarily recumbent. "It's one of my strongest memories."
Dr. Lubetkin, now 55, said he intended to hang his newly acquired amusement park memorabilia above the couch in his office. "I'm a shrink," he joked. "I use magic carpets in therapy."
Other pieces of Coney Island rides and attractions also were sold at prices up to $10,350, for the garish seven-foot-tall bubble-blowing clown face that used to delight children at the Brooklyn park.
But perhaps Coney Island's most famous lady, the mechanical Fat Lady called Minnie Ha Ha, did not draw a bid high enough to be sold.
Its owner, Leonard Goodstein, said he would put it on display at the Brooklyn Historical Society museum. "It's time," he said, "to let my childhood go."
The price paid for Mr. Selznick's Oscar was vastly higher than the $200,000 to $300,000 estimate made by Sotheby's in advance of the auction, which also sold the final shooting script belonging to the producer's script assistant on "Gone With the Wind" for $33,350.
Cinema flotsam, especially from the classics, has fetched increasingly high prices over the past decade, but the interests and passion of film buffs and collectors can be wildly unpredictable.
Clark Gable's leather-bound script from "Gone With the Wind" brought $77,000 in 1994. But in 1996, the director Steven Spielberg bought Mr. Gable's Oscar for his role as a reporter in "It Happened One Night" for $607,500 and then presented it as a gift to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
Television and rock aficionados, at least those at Sotheby's yesterday, do not appear to have the same deep pockets.
A pair of John Lennon's wire-rimmed prescription glasses sold for $25,875 and an album cover of "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" signed by all four Beatles brought $57,500.
The kitchen suite -- a battered table and chairs, a dresser and icebox -- from "The Honeymooners" show during the 1960's, when Gleason and friends filmed it in Miami, was bought for $63,000 by the TV Land cable network.
Larry W. Jones, the network's general manager, said he planned to take the furniture from Ralph Kramden's fictional cold-water flat on the road to promote his company's airing of reruns from the show, starting in January.
Sotheby's officials said they could not identify the buyer of the oversized blue bus driver's outfit worn, around the mid-1950's, by Gleason. The bid was received by telephone.
But Peter Crescenti, one of the two remaining members of Ralph, the Royal Association for the Longevity and Preservation of the Honeymooners, said the outfit was one of very, very many produced over the years.
"Gleason was notorious for having his weight go up and down," said Mr. Crescenti, who put the Gleason memorabilia up for sale. "So there were a lot on hand."
The jacket and pants sold were from one of the star's heavier periods.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joyce Randolph, above, who played Trixie Norton in "The Honeymooners," at the auction of series memorabilia. Leonard Goodstein, left, with Coney Island's bubble-blowing clown. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: GONE WITH THE WIND (MOVIE); HONEYMOONERS, THE (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (91%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); BRAZIL (69%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (72%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (69%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S SOTHEBY'S (91%); BROOKLYN HISTORICAL SOCIETY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S BROOKLYN HISTORICAL SOCIETY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONEY ISLAND (NYC); UNITED STATES (72%); BRAZIL (69%); GEORGIA, USA (72%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (72%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (69%); 

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; AUCTIONS; MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION; AMUSEMENT PARKS AUCTIONS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (86%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (61%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: SACHS, SUSAN MICHAEL JACKSON (73%); MICHAEL JACKSON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



283 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: A Discredited President Returns to Mexico

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, June 12

 BODY:
Interrupting a four-year exile, former President Carlos Salinas de Gortari visited Mexico today for the first time since his tumultuous departure in 1995, when he left behind a brother accused of murder, a country in economic crisis, and a presidential legacy under siege.
Mr. Salinas's return provoked scattered demonstrations, hundreds of angry calls to radio talk shows, and accusations by political opponents that the visit had been timed to influence Mexico's presidential campaign for next spring's elections. 
 Mr. Salinas told reporters he had returned for a two-day visit to attend to his ailing father and to other family matters. But the visit appeared to follow a carefully written political script.
In television interviews and other encounters with the news media that were choreographed hour by hour, Mr. Salinas defended his presidency, which ran from 1988 to 1994, and especially his efforts to modernize the Mexican economy. He also acknowledged mistakes.
"We were pioneers," the former President said. "And pioneers often make errors."
He especially lamented what he said was his failure to more closely oversee his older brother, Raul, who amassed an illicit fortune during his presidency and who was convicted last year of killing a political rival.
Mr. Salinas has spent his exile in Ireland, with frequent visits to other European countries, Cuba and occasionally the United States. He arrived in Mexico City this morning on a private jet after a flight from London via the Bahamas, he said, and said he intends to leave on Sunday.
His visit roiled political currents in Mexico that have already been whipped up by an unprecedented public struggle for the presidential nomination of the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party; a growing controversy over the finances of the 1994 campaign of his successor, President Ernesto Zedillo, and a continuing investigation into a $65 billion banking bailout.
Mr. Zedillo, an economist and a technocrat, retained many senior officials from the Salinas administration and continued many policies of his predecessor, who, in office, was regarded as a modernizer. Yet Mr. Zedillo enjoys considerable popularity while Mr. Salinas these days is one of Mexico's most reviled figures.
"He ruined my lunch!" shouted an enraged caller to TV Azteca minutes after an interview with Mr. Salinas was broadcast. "That man is not a true Mexican. How can he be allowed to move around freely here?"
Even in a political system where Presidents are exalted with king-like powers and then sometimes blamed for all the country's ills when they leave office, Mr. Salinas's fall from grace was one of the bitterest.
This is so largely because he brought broad and painful changes to the Mexican economy, including the sale of state industries that resulted in millions of workers becoming unemployed.
Weeks after he left office on December 1, 1994, speculators began to attack the peso, which had become overvalued as foreign investment capital left the country and a severe imbalance of trade developed. Mr. Zedillo, only recently in office, was forced to devalue. The peso, cut free to trade at market value, plunged in value -- setting off a financial crisis that would soon undermine the broad economy as interest rates soared and credit became virtually unavailable for many borrowers.
At least 500,000 Mexicans were thrown out of work and banks as well as borrowers were plunged into an economic crisis that continues, to a degree, to this day.
Two months later, the police arrested Raul Salinas on murder charges. The former President tried to defend his brother by announcing a hunger strike, then abandoned it days later, and after a secret meeting with President Zedillo flew to the United States.
At the time, aides to Mr. Zedillo who spoke anonymously to reporters said that Mr. Salinas had been forced into exile. Publicly, Mr. Zedillo and Mr. Salinas have always denied that Mr. Salinas's departure was forced.
Aides to Mr. Zedillo repeated those denials today in portraying Mr. Salinas's return as a strictly personal decision. "There was absolutely nothing to prevent him from returning," a presidential aide said. "He's not been charged with any crime; there's no lawsuit, no investigation. His absence until now has been his own free choice."
Mr. Salinas's visit seemed carefully planned. A secretary called scores of foreign and Mexican reporters this morning, inviting them to what was portrayed as an encounter with the former President, but turned out to be a news conference.
"Carlos Salinas de Gortari would like to have coffee with you this afternoon," she said, giving the address of Mr. Salinas's colonial-style boyhood home along a cobbled street in the Coyoacan neighborhood.
As reporters gathered outside the home, Mr. Salinas was already being interviewed live on TV Azteca, the first of several television appearances today.
In that interview, conducted by Sergio Sarmiento, Mr. Salinas said that during his presidency he had no knowledge that his brother was moving millions into foreign bank accounts.
"I see it is difficult for people to understand how a President who was as well-informed as they thought I was could not have known," Mr. Salinas said. "But I was focused on aspects of Mexican life that I considered important for the country's development."
Minutes into the interview, TV Azteca's switchboard lit up with calls.
"He's such a controversial figure that when I was interviewing him on television, irate telephone calls started coming in," Mr. Sarmiento said later. "His visit is going to arouse a political scandal."
Some callers assailed Mr. Sarmiento, an admired broadcast journalist and newspaper columnist, for his respectful treatment of Mr. Salinas, and the interviewer felt obliged to defend the interview.
Outside Mr. Salinas's Coyoacan home, several protesters appeared. "Salinas Get Out! Criminal!" a placard read.
During the news conference, Mr. Salinas complained that he and his family had suffered a four-year "campaign of leaks and distortion of the facts" by unnamed Mexican officials, aiming to discredit the successes of his presidency.
He denied any political motivations for his visit, promised to remain utterly aloof from the election campaign, and said he would never return to politics. "I've taken the decision not to have any involvement at all," Mr. Salinas said.
Jose Antonio Crespo, a political scientist at a research institute here, said he thought Mr. Salinas had misjudged the political climate.
"The public is definitely rejecting this man, and I don't think he expected that," Mr. Crespo said. "Salinas was probably betting that the Mexican public's hate and contempt of him had fallen off. But it hasn't. Not in any way."
Denise Dresser, a professor at another Mexico City college, said Mr. Salinas would not be able to return to live here until he negotiated with the nation's governing elite.
"Can you imagine him walking around in the street? Impossible," she said. "He'd be condemned to sitting in his house and ordering dial-a-pizza. "He can't come back to live without a political agreement."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: When Carlos Salinas de Gortari left Mexico for exile four years ago, a brother faced homicide charges and the nation had recently sunk into financial crisis. Yesterday, he addressed a news conference in Mexico City. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AZTECA (BMV) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

COMPANY: TV AZTECA SA DE CV (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; PUBLIC OPINION; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS MURDER (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ETHICS (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); RIOTS (71%); BANK FAILURES (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%); 

PERSON: DILLON, SAM; SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS CARLOS SALINAS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



284 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 30; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: June 13, 1999

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	4	STAR WARS: Episode I -- The Phantom Menace, by Terry Brooks. (Lucas/Ballantine, $25.) How it all began for Anakin Skywalker (a k a Darth Vader).		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	4	WHITE OLEANDER, by Janet Fitch. (Little, Brown, $24.) The ordeals of growing up as experienced by a teen-age girl whose single mother murders a lover.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	6	WE'LL MEET AGAIN, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A woman struggles to free herself of the suspicion that she murdered her husband.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	4	3	CERTAIN PREY, by John Sandford. (Putnam, $24.95.) Lucas Davenport pursues a woman who is a longtime successful paid killer.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	5	168	OH, THE PLACES YOU'LL GO! by Dr. Seuss. (Random House, $17.) The problems of finding your way through life; in verse and pictures.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	6	8	THE GIRL WHO LOVED TOM GORDON, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $16.95.) When a young girl gets lost in the woods, she is saved by her spiritual association with a relief pitcher for the Boston Red Sox.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	8	17	THE TESTAMENT, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $27.95.) A reclusive billionaire, a burned-out lawyer and a young woman who works as a missionary in the jungles of Brazil are brought together by a startling secret.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	10	25	HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE, by J. K. Rowling. (Levine/Scholastic, $16.95.) A British boy finds his fortune attending a school of witchcraft.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	9	8	A NEW SONG, by Jan Karon. (Viking, $24.95.) A clergyman and his wife move 600 miles from home, creating new friendships and maintaining old ones.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	11	6	EAST OF THE MOUNTAINS, by David Guterson. (Harcourt Brace, $25.) A man with cancer returns to the eastern Washington of his youth to commit suicide.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	14	3	BEYOND THE GREAT SNOW MOUNTAINS, by Louis L'Amour. (Bantam, $16.95.) Ten short stories ranging from the Old West to Hollywood to Siberia.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13		3	CRYPTONOMICON, by Neal Stephenson. (Avon, $27.50.) From World War II to the World Wide Web: a tale of code making and code breaking.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	7	3	THE WHITE HOUSE CONNECTION, by Jack Higgins. (Putnam, $25.95.) Tracking an assassin who threatens the stability of the British and American Governments.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14		1	A GOD IN RUINS, by Leon Uris. (HarperCollins, $26.) On his way to the White House, Quinn Patrick O'Connell discovers a secret that imperils his political future.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15	12	4	 *JOINING, by Johanna Lindsey. (Avon, $24.) In 13th-century England, a woman gradually changes her feelings about her partner in an arranged marriage.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	2	26	THE GREATEST GENERATION, by Tom Brokaw. (Random House, $24.95.) The lives of men and women who came of age during the Depression and World War II.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	3	86	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Doubleday, $19.95.) A sportswriter tells of his weekly visits to his old college mentor, who was near death's door.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	1	3		EVERY MAN A TIGER, by Tom Clancy with Chuck Horner. (Putnam, $27.95.) The novelist and a retired Air Force general examine the Persian Gulf war.	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	4	3	BETRAYAL, by Bill Gertz. (Regnery, $27.95.) A reporter charges that the Clinton Administration has undermined America's security. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	5	8	BELLA TUSCANY, by Frances Mayes. (Broadway, $25.) An American writer remembers a spring and summer spent in the romantic sections of Italy.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	9	12	ALL TOO HUMAN, by George Stephanopoulos. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) The former adviser to President Clinton recalls his years in the White House.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	7	28	THE CENTURY, by Peter Jennings and Todd Brewster. (Doubleday, $60.) An account of the 20th century, complete with photographs and first-person narratives.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8		1	 *ENCORE PROVENCE, by Peter Mayle. (Knopf, $23.) The author of "A Year in Provence" recounts further adventures in the south of France.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	6	11	YESTERDAY, I CRIED, by Iyanla Vanzant. (Simon & Schuster, $22.) A counselor describes how she turned painful experiences into feelings of hope.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	8	21	 *THE ART OF HAPPINESS, by the Dalai Lama and Howard C. Cutler. (Riverhead, $22.95.) What Buddhist doctrines and common sense tell us about dealing with everyday problems.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	13	9	THE MAJORS, by John Feinstein. (Little, Brown, $25.) A sportswriter reports on the 1998 Masters, U.S. Open, British Open and P.G.A. golf tournaments.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12	10	6	THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A journalist explains the instant electronic global economy.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13		1	CINDERELLA STORY, by Bill Murray with George Peper. (Doubleday, $19.95.) The golfing adventures of the actor and comedian.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14	12	2	NO ONE LEFT TO LIE TO, by Christopher Hitchens. (Verso, $19.) A journalist's critical view of the public and private life of Bill Clinton. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15		1	 *I AIN'T GOT TIME TO BLEED, by Jesse Ventura. (Villard, $19.95.) Reflections on politics, pro wrestling and other subjects by the Governor of Minnesota.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	3	48	SUGAR BUSTERS! by H. Leighton Steward et al. (Ballantine, $22.) A diet designed for losing weight, increasing energy and combating disease. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	3	SUZANNE SOMERS' GET SKINNY ON FABULOUS FOOD, by Suzanne Somers. (Crown, $24.) A diet regimen to help people lose weight and remain healthy. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	1	3	CONGRATULATIONS! NOW WHAT? by Bill Cosby. (Hyperion, $15.95.) The television star offers advice for new college graduates.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	4	19	ONE DAY MY SOUL JUST OPENED UP, by Iyanla Vanzant. (Fireside/S&S, $13.) How to raise one's morale and realize one's ambitions. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending May 29, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books.
 
And Bear in Mind
(Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)
 
CLOSE RANGE: Wyoming Stories, by Annie Proulx. (Scribner, $25.) A collection that depicts the New West within the framework of the Wild West, and discovers life hasn't changed all that much for the cowboys and cowgirls who inhabit it.
 
1185 Park Avenue: A Memoir, by Anne Roiphe. (Free Press, $25.) Shunning modish confessionalism in favor of a sharp critical detachment, Roiphe recalls her postwar Upper East Side girlhood, where Scotch flowed daily on the stroke of 5 and children wanted for nothing but parental affection.
 
FREEDOM FROM FEAR: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-1945, by David M. Kennedy. (Oxford University, $39.95.) A history of the Roosevelt era, from the New Deal to V-E Day, and the America he taught to believe that "the only thing we have to fear is fear itself."
 
HAVANA BAY, by Martin Cruz Smith. (Random House, $24.95.) Arkady Renko, taciturn Russian police detective and star of "Gorky Park," fetches up in Cuba bent on suicide; he is revitalized when his plan is rudely thwarted by a would-be assassin.
 
LOVE IN A DEAD LANGUAGE: A Romance, by Lee Siegel. (University of Chicago, $25.) An ambitious and imaginative novel masquerading as a commentary on the Kama Sutra that becomes a literary puzzle in which Nabokov, Joyce and Philip Roth provide the clues.
 
MARY PICKFORD REDISCOVERED: Rare Pictures of a Hollywood Legend, by Kevin Brownlow. (Abrams/Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, $39.95.) America's first film star, this celebratory reappraisal argues, was far more than the sum of her golden ringlets: urchin and princess, tomboy and coquette, she was an adroit shapeshifter worthy of serious critical attention.
 
MUSIC FOR TORCHING, by A. M. Homes. (Rob Weisbach/Morrow, $26.) Another provocative novel from the author who was almost banned in Britain, this time about a very odd couple in a middle-class suburbia that even Cheever never imagined.
 
THE NIGHT INSPECTOR, by Frederick Busch. (Harmony, $23.) A Union sniper in the Civil War, encased in a mask to hide his disfigurement from a wound, makes unlikely friends with a famous author who sounds a lot like Melville.
 
TURN OF THE CENTURY, by Kurt Andersen. (Random House, $24.95.) A novel about a "yoga-practicing Jew" and a "lapsed Unitarian" who are married and competing in the silicon rat race of the new millennium, where life is only slightly more crazy than the old one.
 
WOMAN: An Intimate Geography, by Natalie Angier. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A personal celebration of the female of the species, written from the point of view of a member of that sex but which may prove instructive for the other one. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (54%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (54%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); BOSTON RED SOX (54%); BOSTON RED SOX (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (54%); BOSTON RED SOX (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (54%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (54%); BOSTON, MA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); WOMEN (75%); WORLD WAR II (72%); TEEN SUICIDE (70%); BASEBALL (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); SINGLE PARENTS (55%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (57%); J K ROWLING (57%); JOHN GRISHAM (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



285 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 25; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Local Justice

BYLINE: By Sara Mosle; Sara Mosle is an editor at The Times Magazine.

 BODY:

Hadrian's Walls
 By Robert Draper.
 321 pp. New York:
 Alfred A. Knopf. $23. 
 NOW, here's a premise for a novel. In the early 1970's, a boy named Hadrian Coleman fatally shoots a powerful judge in East Texas and then scratches the dead man's eyes out with a broken whisky bottle. The crime is so heinous that the boy, although just 15 years old, is tried as an adult, convicted and sentenced to 50 years in the state penitentiary. A decade and a half later, he wins parole, but a few weeks before his release, he commits another murder, this time of a fellow inmate. Afraid of spending the rest of his life behind bars, he escapes from the most secure prison in Texas, embarrasses the state's correctional system by eluding a manhunt and is on the lam for eight years.
So far so good. Then, however, Hadrian is suddenly pardoned, while still at large, by the governor of Texas -- this in a state with perhaps the harshest criminal justice system in the country -- at the apparent behest of Sonny Hope, the head of the Hope Farm state penitentiary, who it just so happens, in a secret to no one, was the escaped convict's best childhood friend. In other words, in a deal that stinks to high heaven. It would never happen.
No governor -- certainly no governor of Texas -- would ever risk looking so ridiculously soft on crime by pardoning, out of the blue, an escaped two-time murderer, and certainly not to appease some two-bit state official with no campaign money to donate and no constituency to speak of. Yet the novel opens with Hadrian picking up his pardon papers at Sonny Hope's mansion, where he's welcomed with open arms and asked to recount his escape by gleeful prison officials. Hasn't anyone in these parts ever heard of the appearance of impropriety?
But if you can get past this gargantuan leap of logic, Robert Draper's first book, "Hadrian's Walls," is actually a deft, occasionally ingenious novel, doing for sadistic prison officials what Donna Tartt's "Secret History" did for murderous college cliques: making them seem, if only momentarily, far more appealing than you ever thought they could be.
Before long, a reporter gets nosy about the goings-on in Shepherdsville, a fictional stand-in for Huntsville, a prison community of 35,000 north of Houston, on the edge of East Texas' Pine Curtain. The pardon, at first glance, appears to correct an earlier injustice: Hadrian killed the judge to defend Sonny, whom the judge had tried to seduce and then murder when his advance was spurned. But Sonny inexplicably let his friend take the rap for the murder without providing exculpatory testimony. (There's a homophobic assumption underlying the plot: Sonny couldn't afford even an unwanted association with homosexuality or his life would be ruined.)
Sonny's father, who is the prison warden before Sonny succeeds him, tries to make it up to Hadrian, as he serves his time, by giving him a work detail in his mansion. The two boys -- one free, one not -- grow up together and, stretching all credulity, remain friends. Sonny courts and marries a gorgeous local girl, whom Hadrian also loves. Pained by his proximity to freedom, Hadrian finally forgoes his mansion privileges to live like any other convict.
In the meantime, Sonny, revealing his true character, becomes warden after betraying his father. Later, he wants Hadrian to repay the favor of the pardon by killing for him again -- this time, Ricky Tempesta, a sleazy former con who is threatening to run Sonny out of business by opening a private prison next door in Trust, Tex. (Some of the novel's most hilarious bits involve Tempesta's marketing of his prison: "Why We Need Trust.") More than half the novel is devoted to Hadrian's tedious agonizing over whether he owes it to Sonny to commit the murder. It's hard figuring out why Hadrian has ever felt any loyalty to Sonny -- particularly after serving 15 years' hard time. Indeed, everyone's devotion to Sonny -- his father's, the girl's, other prison officials' -- is pretty inexplicable. Even in Draper's sympathetic portrait, he comes across as completely odious.
Draper has found a modern Texas subject that is fresh and fertile: the exponential growth of the state's prison system and the rise of towns whose entire economies depend, with creepy exploitation, on incarceration. Draper covered the Texas prison system for Texas Monthly, and the novel borrows heavily from a long piece that he wrote for the magazine on Andy Collins, the former director of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice, who was ousted for corruption and is an obvious model for Sonny Hope.
The novel, however, goes wrong precisely where it departs from the real story. In the Texas Monthly article, Collins comes across as something of a buffoon: a glad-handing, frat-boy bureaucrat with all the charm of a used car salesman. In the novel, however, Draper is gunning for more significance, for literature with a capital L. He wants Sonny to be a kind of Governor Stanton, a tragic, flawed figure who still inspires epic loyalty. But such men usually don't end up as lifers in the Texas Department of Corrections. Hadrian, in turn, is less a Texan than the Southern innocent, displaying a wide-eyed navete that is completely incongruous with his circumstances. The guy, after all, rather gratuitously gouged a man's eyes out and then was raised by the state pen. Hasn't Draper ever read "The Executioner's Song"?
Draper is guilty of a kind of Texas Uncle Tomism: playing up to the literary establishment's stereotypes of what Texas regional color should be. But he never gets past the cliches to conjure up a real place and time. His descriptions are mostly stock images from Southern literature. There's the wild, untamed nature: "The river exists in no postcard. Even on the calmest of evenings, it froths and flails like the devil's own handmaiden." There's the emphasis on patriarchy and the hammy folk wisdom: "But your daddy, 'course you know, if pure stubbornness is strength why then he's stronger'n Nellie's breath." There's even the obligatory lesson about race. At one point, Hadrian's father invites his young son onto the family porch to shame some Ku Klux Klan members with his innocence. The scene is straight out of "To Kill a Mockingbird."
There's tragedy in the Texas prison system, but Draper doesn't find it here. The novel's best bits are his sharp satire of Tempesta and Trust, and the whole prison industry. Indeed, there's a great comic novel struggling to get out of "Hadrian's Wall," but instead Draper gives us an implausible thriller. He wants us to believe that prison officials have the grandeur of "The Godfather." But these guys are the Sopranos. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HADRIAN'S WALLS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); TEXAS, USA (95%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PRISONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); PARDONS (89%); MURDER (89%); SENTENCING (77%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (77%); PAROLE (77%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (75%); LITERATURE (73%); 

PERSON: MOSLE, SARA; DRAPER, ROBERT SONNY HOPE (95%); HADRIAN COLEMAN (95%); ROBERT DRAPER (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



286 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 16; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Oh Mom, Poor Mom

BYLINE: By Nancy Willard; Nancy Willard's books include "Telling Time: Angels, Ancestors, and Stories" and an anthology, "Step Lightly: Poems for the Journey." She teaches literature at Vassar College.

 BODY:

LAST THINGS
 By Jenny Offill.
 264 pp. New York:
 Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $23. 
 Jean Piaget observed that scarcely any question seems absurd to a child, but he was silent on the question of absurd answers from adults. In Jenny Offill's remarkable first novel, "Last Things," 7-year-old Grace Davitt watches her mother, Anna, descend into madness and tries to make sense of the claustrophobic world that Anna has created for her. The child has been plucked out of school for behavior problems and is being educated at home, in a small town in Vermont on Lake Champlain. Her father, Jonathan, is a chemistry teacher; her mother is an ornithologist who decides to teach Grace the history of the world in a room she has painted black and decorated with glow-in-the-dark stars: "In one corner was a desk and a small blackboard. On the wall behind them, my mother had painted some words in white. 'It's the cosmic calendar,' she said. 'Everything that's happened since the beginning of time compressed into just one year.' "
Grace's unsentimental education is anything but rational, and this is no ordinary coming-of-age novel. Her mother's downward spiral takes center stage. Demonstrating a lively knowledge of both science and magic, Offill shows Anna stuffing her daughter with answers that veer from the scientific to the fantastic. Yet the child accepts every absurdity because it comes from a higher authority:
" 'Once,' my mother said, 'there was no true darkness. Even at night, the moon was as bright as the sun. The only difference was that the light was blue. You could see clearly for miles and miles and it was never cold. And this was called twilight.' 'Why twi?' I asked. 'Because it rhymes with sky,' my mother said. 'It's a code word for blue.' Code blue was what they said when someone died, I remembered, and this, too, had to do with the sky."
Important cosmic events, dated and noted like entries from the earth's diary, are interspersed throughout the narrative. But applying the rigorous methodology of science to the imagination is like putting a dream on dialysis, and the cosmic calendar, with its succession of vanishing species, casts a terrible shadow over Anna's faith in her own survival. "My mother said that stones were last things and would be around long after people were gone. Other last things were oceans, metal and crows." The child translates her mother's pronouncements into practical magic: "I thought that if I filled a birdbath with seawater and dropped a coin in it, I might glimpse the end of the world."
Grace ponders the mysteries revealed in the Encyclopedia of the Unexplained (a gift from her mother) and sees herself as a detective, keeping lists of words and facts in her notebook. "I had an idea that someday someone would come to me with a mystery and I would open up the notebook and all the clues would already be there." Ordinary communications are fringed with codes, signs, questions and disguises. Grace's eccentric baby sitter, a 16-year-old genius named Edgar, suggests that "everyone around you might be an ingenious robot and you're the only one that's not." Uncle Pete, her father's twin brother, plays Mr. Science on a television show for children. When he runs off with one of the show's writers, Grace's father easily steps into the role, playing his brother playing Mr. Science. Anna is fluent in Annic, her own secret language, invented by her father.
Appearances are not only deceiving, they are baffling. Who can one trust in such a world except a cryptozoologist? "Cryptozoologists were detectives who specialized in finding hidden animals. . . . This was the sort of detective my mother wanted me to be." For "hidden," read "endangered," "legendary," "vanished," "extinct." Make no mistake. Hide-and-seek is not child's play. Offill gives us journeys within journeys: the earth keeping time, the light sent eons ago from a dead star, Anna's harrowing cross-country drive with Grace, which ends in a California desert.
Offill does not succumb to the familiar tug-of-war between science and religion; her characters, not their ideas, are her major concern. The child's nonjudgmental point of view and deadpan accounts of people caught in the thrall of their convictions make "Last Things" an unexpectedly funny book. Grace's father wants to protect her from religion. Her mother wants to do no harm to the natural world. When Anna receives a collapsible iron from her husband for Christmas, her query reminds us that to one who voyages in the imagination pressed clothes are as useless as traveler's checks:
"My father didn't believe in Christmas, but still we celebrated it. It was like not believing in God but still you prayed. My mother said it was a shame to cut down a tree, so instead we chose one in the forest and tied a ribbon around it so we could find it again. . . . We opened our presents all at once because it was too cold to take turns. . . . My mother folded and unfolded the iron; then she ran it across the snow. 'How marvelous,' she said. 'What do you suppose its purpose is?' "
The novel is crisply written, economically constructed and so inventive that you read without a clue as to what anyone will say or do next. Offill's fresh voice, endearing and quirky, makes you willingly suspend disbelief. Underlying the surprises is a carefully constructed pattern of motifs -- water, animals, darkness, unsolved mysteries -- that cluster into metaphors for what happens to Grace's mother, which is not described directly. The reader understands it as Grace does, through various clues.
In the last few chapters, Grace takes her first steps toward a life of her own, though scarred by her mother's emotional detachment. The final chapter, filled with lyrical speculation about Anna, has the power of a dream carried not in the head but in the heart.
In an interview with Publishers Weekly, Offill talked about the origins of the novel: "It occurred to me that a child would be a very good companion for a madwoman." This idea is also central to Marilynne Robinson's "Housekeeping," although Robinson's novel, narrated by an adult looking back at childhood, is faithful to memory in what it includes: landscape, characters, personal reflections. In contrast, Offill's is faithful to the child's point of view in what it leaves out -- a circumscribed telling indeed. But if "last things" means things that will last, then Offill's novel is one of them. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LAST THINGS (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); BIOLOGY (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); LITERATURE (77%); BIRDS (74%); ORNITHOLOGY (74%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); 

PERSON: WILLARD, NANCY; OFFILL, JENNY JEAN PIAGET (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



287 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Drug Switching Saves Money, but There Is a Cost

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
WITH a brother who died of a heart attack and two parents who had strokes, it came as no surprise to Joanne Best that, at age 60, she had developed heart disease. The surprise came at the drugstore counter, when Ms. Best, of Concord, Calif., tried to refill her prescription for Norvasc, the medication that kept her blood pressure under control.
"They said the insurance doesn't pay," she said. "It wasn't on the formulary." Her doctor switched her to nifedipine, a different drug in the class known as calcium channel blockers. But the new medicine isn't working, and last week the doctor doubled the dose. "It's very scary," Ms. Best said. "This could be a matter of life and death with me." 
 Managed care executives call what happened to Ms. Best "formulary management," or "therapeutic substitution." Consumer advocates use a less flattering term: "drug switching."
With more drugs on pharmacy shelves than ever before, and with more prescriptions being written each year, officials at the Food and Drug Administration are growing increasingly concerned about deaths and injuries caused by medications. Much attention is being paid to medication mix-ups and other pharmaceutical errors. But many people don't realize that pharmacists, at the behest of insurance companies, intentionally switch medications all the time, with potentially harmful consequences.
These switches do not involve replacing brand name drugs with generics, which pharmacists are allowed to do unless the doctor writes "dispense as written" or "D.A.W" on the prescription. Rather, one chemical entity is substituted for another; the drugs may treat the same disorder but have entirely different side effects. The practice is particularly common with some of the most often-prescribed medications: anti-depressants, high blood-pressure medication and cholesterol-lowering drugs.
Often, the switching, which is done to save money, is harmless. But for some people, particularly those who have been on an established therapy for a long time, the changes can cause problems.
"It can be very dangerous and it is rampant," said Dr. Raymond Woosley, chairman of the pharmacology department at the Georgetown University Medical Center. "This counters everything we teach in medicine, which is, 'Know a few drugs, know them well, pick the best medicine for your patient, don't change unless it is medically indicated.' "
The idea that doctors should know a few drugs and know them well was the original concept behind formularies, or restricted lists of medications. "It's an old concept," said Susan Winckler, director of policy and legislation at the American Pharmaceutical Association, a pharmacists' trade group, "and in a hospital setting it allowed physicians and other prescribers to get used to a limited number of drugs. Managed care has taken that concept from the hospital to the community environment, and we are not quite sure that the translation has worked as well as it could."
Consumer advocates say it is not working at all. Howard Metzenbaum, the former Democratic senator from Ohio who is now chairman of the Consumer Federation of America, a nonprofit organization in Washington, described drug switching as "an evil practice." He would like to see Congress ban it, but said, "My guess is we'd have a hell of an uphill battle."
In a 1997 report entitled "Pharmaceutical Payola," Mark Green, the New York City Public Advocate, cited a string of complaints about drug switching that had been sent to the F.D.A. A 63-year-old woman developed a joint condition after switching cholesterol-lowering drugs; a 29-year-old schizophrenic "began exhibiting bruises and swelling" after changing medications, and an 86-year-old woman who traded one high blood-pressure pill for another suffered "nausea, weakness and shakiness."
And even when there is no harm, pharmacists and doctors say, the switching is a nuisance. "That's where the nightmare in pharmacy comes in," said Bruce Roberts, the owner of Leesburg Pharmacy in Leesburg, Va. "First we have to determine what they will cover. Then we have to call the physician and get authorization. Most physicians are so beat down by managed care that they say, 'O.K.' " But when the doctor refuses, he said, "You have to get back on the phone."
Pharmacy benefits managers, who serve as middlemen between drug companies and health plans, say the wrangling is worth it. Drug costs are spiraling upward; the pharmaceutical industry's revenues are estimated at $91.8 billion this year, up from $38.5 billion in 1990. Medications play such a big role in modern medicine, health economists say, that some health plans are now paying more for pharmaceuticals than hospital visits. Switching is so essential to keeping costs down that benefits managers pay pharmacists a premium for dispensing drugs that are on a company's formulary.
"We estimate that we save our clients over $1 billion a year in prescription drug costs," said Kevin Colgan, a spokesman for Merck-Medco Managed Care, which administers prescription drug benefits for more than 51 million people. He said no one is pressured to switch; doctors are simply "presented with an opportunity to help the health plan to save money."
Forty-six percent of the time, he said, they agree. Patients who don't like it, Mr. Colgan said, have another option: "They can always pay for it themselves, out of pocket."
That kind of thinking enrages Ms. Best, who said she already pays a $200 monthly premium for health insurance. Paying for Norvasc would cost her an additional $80 a month.
And what happens when the insurance company and the drug company are one and the same? When Merck, the pharmaceutical giant, purchased Medco in 1993, critics complained that the parent company would steer its own drugs to the benefits management firm, a wholly owned subsidiary. Last year, the Federal Trade Commission agreed; an investigation found that Medco had given favorable treatment to Merck products. Without admitting wrongdoing, Merck-Medco signed a consent agreement that required it to maintain an "open formulary," a practice Mr. Colgan said the company already had in place.
IN the end, some wonder how much money is really being saved by all this switching, and at what cost. Mr. Green, the New York City Public Advocate, concluded that drug switching is "likely to mean that a patient does not get well as fast," which drives up health care costs from additional doctors' visits.
Dr. Kathryn Bennett, who treats Ms. Best, has reached the same conclusion. "Now she is taking this medication twice a day," the doctor said, "which may well be more expensive than what she was taking before."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 20, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 13 about how pharmacists, at the behest of insurance companies, sometimes substitute a less expensive drug for the one originally prescribed, omitted the context for a comment by Kevin Colgan, a spokesman for Merck-Medco Managed Care, who said: "The patient is accepting a benefit from their employer, and if they would like no management of their benefit, or no restrictions, they can always pay for it themselves out of pocket." Mr. Colgan was referring to an employee's entire drug benefit package, not to an individual prescription.

GRAPHIC: Photo: With thousands of drugs available, mix-ups are increasing. Intentional switching of drugs to save money adds to the confusion. (Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CONSUMER PROTECTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); GENERIC AND BRAND NAME PRODUCTS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PRESCRIPTION FORMULARIES (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PHARMACISTS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (88%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (88%); DEATHS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); HYPERTENSION (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); PHARMACIES (77%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (77%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (77%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (77%); INSURANCE (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (75%); HEALTH CARE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CHOLESTEROL (73%); PHARMACOLOGY (72%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



288 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 6;Page 28;Column 3;Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 6-13-99: Word & Image;
The Information Tyranny

BYLINE: By Max Frankel

 BODY:
The Web nuts of America career around the Internet celebrating a new freedom to shout and spout anything into the ether: no more restraints on speech, they insist; no more hierarchy of thought. I hope they were watching old-time public television for just an hour last week, as Bill Moyers documented our society's slide into a new information tyranny, how corporate wealth is monopolizing debate, corrupting politicians and dictating policy. (The program will be rebroadcast tonight on WNET in the New York area.)
Moyers's thesis, oxymoronically titled "Free Speech for Sale," began with a modest morality tale about how special interests can easily mislead the public. It featured Cindy Watson, the first Republican in a century to represent her rural district in the North Carolina Legislature. Responding to her constituency, she helped pass a moratorium to limit the growth of hog farming until something was done to control the hog waste that spewed nauseating ammonia fumes across the landscape. 
 What the hog corporations did instead was lay waste to Cindy Watson, using their wealth to, essentially, buy the franchise. They spent $2.6 million on TV ads to smear her reputation and to conduct fake polls designed not to sample public sentiment but to ask suggestive questions about her "flip-flops" and "loss of the voters' trust." Unable to afford rebuttal ads, Watson drowned in the muck and lost her seat in 1996.
When corporate interests are unable to mislead the public, Moyers showed, they concentrate their wealth to intimidate Congress. The obvious example: last year's $40 million television ad campaign to redefine an anti-smoking bill as a "tax and spend" public burden. Even after victory, the triumphant industry kept buying commercials to assist the campaigns of loyal senators. No one bankrolled an opposing interest.
Finally, as if monopolizing media time were not enough, some corporate behemoths have bought favor and protection simply by buying the media. Vast conglomerates like Disney, Fox and General Electric have acquired control over entertainment hardware and software -- both the wires into every home and the images they carry. Not incidentally, that also gives them control over all the television news concerning their own conduct. That is why the giveaway of perhaps $70 billion worth of spectrum space -- reserved channels in which broadcasters will greatly improve and multiply their transmissions -- was passed last year with hardly any public discussion. The television networks allowed no serious on-air debate of the possibility of auctioning off such a valuable public resource.
In this distortion of democratic values, the obvious culprit is a legal mythology that grants every corporation -- already enjoying immortality and limited economic liability -- the same First Amendment rights of free speech as those guaranteed to individual citizens. That relatively recent reading of the Constitution produces a false equality between a corporate shout and every ordinary citizen's whisper.
As Bert Neuborne, the legal director of the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University's Law School, told Moyers: "The First Amendment is aspirational. It's romantic. It says that the purpose is to create a world in which people can speak freely and equally to one another. And therefore there's an obligation to step in at some point and even the playing field so that individuals can actually have real discussions and real debates. . . . What we've now got is not a real democracy with real debate but . . . a plutocracy in which money talks."
And on television, money talks out of proportion to all other speech. So it is the field of political talk on television that needs leveling. The great effect and high cost of television commercials corrupt all politics and most politicians. If the commercials cannot be banned altogether, they should at least be offset with free and fair time for opposing views. As Kathleen Hall Jamieson, dean of the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, has said to the broadcast industry: "If you're getting that kind of income out of this advertising process, don't you have some obligation to provide some alternative access to the alternative points of view?"
The disingenuous opponents of such reform contend that "full disclosure" of who is paying for a propaganda blitz should suffice to keep politics honest. But the discovery that the "Farmers for Fairness" who knocked off Cindy Watson are really corporate hogs who stood to profit enormously did not come nearly in time to do her much good. After the 1996 election, even a paper with the resources of The Wall Street Journal needed more than a year to track the contributions -- including 165,000 individual checks for $5,000 -- that the hedge-fund industry made to Republicans to induce them to pass an amendment yielding huge profits to their industry.
As for legislated "limits" on corporate giving, they have been rendered farcical. Even corporations that bother to observe the limits now give to a wild variety of committees, party units, "issue" campaigns and far-flung state and local do-good organizations, all of whom invariably mock the law by directing the money to the campaign chests of specific candidates.
As has become painfully obvious, the winners of elections by these means are in no mood to change the rules. Can reform be accomplished without them? Can a victimized public somehow circumvent the cynical maneuvers by which both major parties protect their corrupting quest of funds and the influence of wealth? Under pressure from Congress, the Federal Communications Commission has refused to revive the fairness doctrine that once required broadcasters to give equal time to opposing views. But Dennis Morrisseau, now of Oak Island, N.C., once had an idea whose time may have come.
When I last addressed the issue, Morrisseau recalled that as a hugely "underfunded" candidate for Congress in Vermont 25 years ago, he sued the local TV station and the F.C.C. in Federal Court, demanding that they halt the overpowering commercials of his opponents. He said the great effect of television commercials and their high cost meant, in combination, that broadcasters were using the public air to establish an unconstitutional "means test" for achieving Federal office.
His case was thrown out, but "I still like the point," Morrisseau writes.
So do I, and so would most folks if they were told enough about how our information democracy has been hijacked by a corporate tyranny.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 4, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The Word & Image column on June 13, about the corrupting influence of corporate wealth, misstated the amount of contributions made by hedge-fund companies to Republican candidates for Congress in 1996. It was $165,000, in individual checks of $5,000 each, and not 165 checks for $5,000.

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Film still from Public Affairs Television)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. INTERNET & WWW (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); POLITICS (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); HOG & PIG FARMING (73%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); SMOKING BANS (63%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM DON 'BILL' MOYERS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



289 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: The Promised Land

BYLINE: By Max Rodenbeck; Max Rodenbeck, who writes on the Middle East for The Economist, is the author of "Cairo: The City Victorious."

 BODY:

Between Memory
 and Desire
 The Middle East in a Troubled Age.
 By R. Stephen Humphreys.
 297 pp. Berkeley:
 University of California Press. $29.95. 
 Iran's Minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance narrowly escaped impeachment last month. Religious conservatives were out for his blood, accusing him of allowing "perversion and filth" to spread in the Islamic Republic. The Minister's winning defense was simple. Although Iran's 1979 constitution forbids the undermining of Islamic principles, he said, legislators have never defined what exactly those principles are.
This would surprise the many Americans who tend to regard Islam as a monolithic faith with inflexible rules. It would not surprise R. Stephen Humphreys. The clash between ideals of Islamic governance and the practical difficulty of applying them is exactly the sort of Middle Eastern conundrum he neatly exposes in this refreshingly forthright collection of essays.
A professor of Islamic history at the University of California, Santa Barbara, Humphreys brings a historian's deep and dispassionate perspective to the modern Middle East. In "Between Memory and Desire," he poses incisive questions, elaborates convincing arguments and does not shy from tackling the prickliest of topics. All this is achieved with an eye for telling detail and a concise style that is rare in academic writing.
Students of the region will find little that is really new here. What they will find is an admirably succinct exposition of key issues. These range from the failure of Arab state building to the failure of Arabs and Israelis really to come to terms to the failure of modern Islamists to forge a practical social and political program.
That is a lot of failure, and indeed the picture that emerges is a somber one. "Life is full of surprises," Humphreys writes, "but a betting man would wager that the Middle East will be living with the current legacy of rapid population growth and economic frustration for decades to come."
Few who know the region would seriously dispute this judgment. Levels of unemployment are dangerously high, even in relatively successful economies like Israel's. Such vital resources as arable land and water are scarce. A lack of popular legitimacy makes most governments shaky and intolerant of dissent. Middle Eastern states are only just beginning to adopt policies likely to stimulate rapid economic growth, which is ultimately the only way they will manage to accommodate the thousands of youths entering the job market every year.
What Humphreys might have added is that the Middle East's frightening population growth rates have plummeted in the past decade. In fact, the region is experiencing a profound demographic transition. Recent research has shown that similar transitions helped fuel economic booms in both 19th-century Europe and east Asia during the 1970's. Not only will fewer students be entering the Middle East's overburdened educational systems, but the proportion of working-age people to dependents will rise, creating a far more productive balance. The countries where these trends are most pronounced -- Morocco, Egypt and Tunisia -- are already attractive emerging markets.
But if demographic pressures are easing, there is still plenty of room for pessimism. The region's most serious challenges lie less in economics than in perceptions, habits and attitudes. This is the realm "between memory and desire," the apt phrase Humphreys has borrowed from Eliot's "Wasteland." It is on this intangible plane that the author is at his best.
"Memory in the Middle East," Humphreys says, "tends to be embodied in myth rather than history." Excepting the very new school of Israeli revisionist historians, the region as a whole has made only feeble efforts to scrutinize its own past objectively. The absence of a solid understanding opens history to manipulation and distortion -- a very serious thing considering that memory, according to Humphreys, is what identifies goals and purposes for the future.
Arab memories, for example, are often consumed by a sense of having fallen from grace, of having declined ever since Islam's spectacular efflorescence in the seventh and eighth centuries. The politicization of Islam in recent years has exaggerated this feeling, since fundamentalists hold the early years of Islam to be a perfect model for society in all ages. Scholars who seek to probe and challenge this construct are now exposed to charges of betraying their faith. Without free investigation of Islam's history, Humphreys suggests, there can be little hope of either renewal or reform.
Similarly, the historical memory of both Israelis and Palestinians is so clouded by their own national tragedies that the two peoples rarely pause to consider how to accommodate each other. As Humphreys observes of the Israelis, much of their "memory" of injustice is simply misdirected toward their neighbors. Zionism is strictly a product of European conditions, he says. Far from being grounded in age-old hatreds, the Arab-Israeli struggle "is decisively a 20th-century conflict, and biblical or Koranic texts are relevant only insofar as they are used to sanctify ideas and standpoints whose roots lie in modern times."
Humphreys is equally dismissive of many Western myths regarding the Middle East. The idea of mad dictators driven by irrational rage is one such shibboleth. In a persuasive series of analyses, he shows how seemingly self-destructive policies are nearly always founded in perfectly rational choices. For example, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's support for the students who held hostages at the United States Embassy for 444 days may have isolated Iran in the world, but it also enabled Khomeini to clinch his grip on power at a critical juncture in the Islamic revolution. While admiring of such tactics, Humphreys is hardly sentimental. Khomeini, he says, was "militant, vindictive, sure of Islam's enemies but not of what he hoped to build."
Humphreys concludes his demolition of the mad dictator myth in typically pithy fashion. "The problem for us is not that the goals of Middle Eastern leaders are impenetrable; most of the time they are quite transparent. The problem is simply that these goals are not the ones that we want them to have." A wealth of observations like this place Humphreys's work in the best tradition of writing on foreign cultures. Objective yet sympathetic, scholarly yet accessible, his book ends up revealing as much about our own society as about those it describes. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BETWEEN MEMORY AND DESIRE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HISTORY (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (85%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); LITERATURE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); EMPLOYMENT (60%); 

PERSON: RODENBECK, MAX; HUMPHREYS, R STEPHEN STEPHEN HUMPHREYS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1999



290 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Machine Tool Orders Fell 10% in April

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14

 BODY:
Domestic orders for machine tools declined in April as demand in the South and Midwest weakened, an industry survey found.
Orders from American companies for domestic and foreign-produced machine tools fell 10 percent in April, to an estimated $391 million from a revised $433 million in March, according to a report from the Association for Manufacturing Technology and the American Machine Tool Distributors' Association. 
 The April decrease was the third monthly drop in machine tool orders this year. "The softness in our market reflects the overall weakness in the manufacturing sector," said Don Carlson, president of the manufacturers' group, adding that he expected a stronger market by August.
The report showed that tool orders are down 44 percent, to an estimated $1.5 billion so far this year, compared with the 1998 period. March orders dropped 41 percent from the estimated $667 million total the previous March. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY (57%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY STRATEGIES (57%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INC (57%); AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY MACHINE TOOLS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY WHOLESALERS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1999



291 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
Sweepstakes Losing Charm For Magazines

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI

 BODY:
For years, America's sweepstakes companies, like American Family Publishers and Publishers Clearing House, have filled mailboxes with letters promising consumers millions of dollars and offering magazine subscriptions. And for years, the magazine industry has flourished with the help of those grand, empty promises, depending on them in the first half of the 1990's to generate a third of its new subscriptions.
But now, the stampsheet houses, as the sweepstakes companies are called, are under a cloud of bad publicity and Government scrutiny, first set in motion by an investigation into their practices introduced by 32 states early in 1998. As a result, the ever-growing lack of consumer trust and the poor performance by sweepstakes companies are threatening to drive the magazine industry into what some publishers are calling its own recession. 
 Because Americans are responding with less enthusiasm, the sweepstakes houses have delivered far fewer subscriptions to the magazine publishers. To counter that, the magazine publishers are finding new ways to attract subscribers.
Next month, E. Daniel Capell, a magazine circulation analyst, will publish a report in his newsletter, Capell's Circulation Report, that shows for the first time the sharp downturn in subscription rates for magazines that sell subscriptions through the two main sweepstakes houses, American Family Publishers, jointly owned by a unit of Time Warner's Time Inc. and an investment group associated with the Pritzker family of Chicago, and Publishers Clearing House, a limited partnership. Mr. Capell announced his survey of the circulation directors of 136 consumer magazines last week at a meeting of those executives sponsored in part by the Magazine Publishers of America, and the results are already sending a chill through the industry.
The stampsheet houses typically rely on their year-end mailings to generate the bulk of their annual responses. Mr. Capell's survey found that subscription response rates, from the 1997-98 year-end mailings to the 1998-99 year-end mailings, were down an average of 37.4 percent for magazines sold through American Family Publishers; for magazines carried by Publishers Clearing House, subscription rates were down 29.2 percent. For many magazines, these figures represent a huge downturn.
"You're going to see serious subscription problems for large-circulation titles that rely heavily on the stampsheets," Mr. Capell said. "The women's services magazines will take the biggest hit: Family Circle, Woman's Day, Redbook, and Ladies' Home Journal. The newsweeklies are the next tier."
Mr. Capell's report comes after American Family Publishers agreed last month to make changes in its practices and settled a civil complaint by four states contending that it had deceived consumers. On Friday, however, a Federal judge in North Carolina found American Family in contempt for violating a 1993 settlement in which it agreed to tone down its promotions. Last week, United States senators received nervous executives from the sweepstakes and magazine industries pressing for last-minute changes to a bill, the Deceptive Mail Prevention and Enforcement Act, that the Senate is expected to pass, perhaps before the July 4 recess. The bill would severely limit the kind of solicitations that have so beguiled consumers in the past.
Industry response to the subscription downturn is uniformly dour. Lindsay Valk, the director of circulation marketing for Hearst Magazines, publisher of Redbook and Esquire, two magazines that are heavily reliant on the stampsheets, said that some Hearst titles "have seen a big hit to their volume."
Gregory B. Zorthian, the vice president of business development at Forbes magazine, which sells subscriptions through both American Family Publishers and Publishers Clearing House, refers to the steep decline as "a circulation recession."
"It's got people scared," he added.
Jim Woods, the circulation director for Prevention magazine, which is published by Rodale, said he had expected to generate at least 100,000 subscriptions from the stampsheets from the year-end mailings, but got less than half that number.
Chip Block, a founder of American Family Publishers and a former consultant to Publishers Clearing House, estimates that for some magazines, the subscription rate will be off by as much as 70 percent.
The Reader's Digest Association founded the first magazine sweepstakes in 1962. Business boomed in the 1980's and early 1990's, then slowed a bit, partly because of consumer fatigue, before dropping precipitously last year.
The pitch is simple: consumers get letters exhorting them to enter a sweepstakes. Accompanying the letters is an offer of cut-rate magazine subscriptions. In the past, many consumers subscribed, either because they thought it would increase their chances of winning, or simply to take advantage of an inexpensive magazine offer. Under the bill before the Senate, the sweepstakes mailing would have to display a statement that no purchase of a subscription is necessary to win a prize.
Deborah Holland, a senior vice president at Publishers Clearing House, would not confirm the percentage drop in subscription rates, but conceded that they were down.
Susan Caughman, the chairman of American Family Enterprises, said that "the mass-market titles sell best with the stampsheets, so they are therefore more vulnerable in the downturns, without question."
"They are more reliant on the stampsheets," she said. "If you're 'Fly Fishing on the Housatonic,' this is not going to affect you."
She would not confirm the percentage of decline but said, "We're not down to zero."
Both executives defended the seductive nature of their company's mailings. Ms. Holland said: "The whole purpose of the sweepstakes is merely to call attention to the offers inside. After all, we do guarantee the lowest magazine prices."
With subscription rates dropping, Mr. Capell predicts that in 2000 many magazines will have to lower their rate bases, the circulation levels that magazines guarantee to advertisers.
Michael Pashby, executive vice president of the Magazine Publishers of American, said: "I assume that would be a logical progression from what has happened. However, I think that publishers have been quick to go out and look for new ways of reaching the consumer."
Indeed, magazines are scrambling to flee American Family Publishers and Publishers Clearing House faster than Ed McMahon can say "You're a winner."
Mr. Woods of Prevention said that the magazine's circulation staff was studying other ways to get subscriptions. The Internet, he said, shows some hope; Prevention now picks up 5,000 subscriptions a month from Women.com, a Web site with which it is affiliated, he said.
Other publishers are relying increasingly on new kinds of marketers, like News Subscription Services, a company in Greenwich, Conn., that provides, for example, a method by which consumers are offered magazine subscriptions every time they order something out of a catalogue; consumers who order from Lands' End, for example, may get a surprise solicitation for a cut-rate subscription to Martha Stewart Living.
And the sweepstakes companies, which can keep up to 90 percent in commissions on the subscriptions, are also trying to reverse their losses. American Family Publishers started an advertising campaign last week that shows the happy, smiling, winners of prizes that start at $1,000. "We're focusing on showing consumers that 19,000 consumers will win prizes from A.F.P. in 1999," Ms. Caughman said. She added: "I believe consumers love us."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a recent mailing, Time promoted a "guaranteed and bonded sweepstakes." Such offers are selling fewer magazines. (Tony Cenicola for The New York Times)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7331 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING SERVICES (94%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FAMILY PUBLISHERS (94%); TIME INC (91%); PUBLISHERS CLEARING HOUSE (58%); LADIES' HOME JOURNAL (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND MAGAZINES; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING SWEEPSTAKES (95%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (91%); PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (50%); 

PERSON: E DANIEL CAPELL (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1999



292 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1828 words

HEADLINE: Data 'Brokers' Battle Critics of DeceptivePractices

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 13

 BODY:
When he entered the private investigation business nearly 20 years ago, James J. Rapp opened a company to do surveillance and other things that he did not want to talk about, particularly because its name, Dirty Deeds Done Dirt Cheap, aptly described its operations.
Now Mr. Rapp, a 39-year-old investigator who used to promise on his Web page that he could quickly get anyone's private telephone records or bank account balances for as little as $100, is in the middle of legislative, regulatory and criminal battles over how much privacy millions of Americans should enjoy when they go to the bank or make a phone call. 
 Mr. Rapp has made a career of posing as the person whose records he is trying to uncover, to trick banks, telephone companies and other institutions into revealing confidential information sought by his clients. The practice is known in the trade as pretexting, and it has drawn a lawsuit from the Federal Trade Commission that names Mr. Rapp, his wife, Regana, and their company, Touch Tone Information Inc. A trial date has not been set, although Touch Tone has agreed to honor a preliminary injunction barring the investigative practices that are at issue in the suit.
The lawsuit is billed by both sides as a landmark case, and Mr. Rapp is receiving significant support from a coalition of information brokers and debt collectors who see the Government's action as a potential threat to their livelihood. But even some of his allies are uneasy about using Mr. Rapp as the vehicle to avoid new and tougher Government privacy rules, because he has a criminal record and served a four-year prison sentence for theft.
The case against Mr. Rapp has also been discussed in Congress as lawmakers in both the House and Senate, with the support of the Clinton Administration, are trying to make such investigative techniques a Federal crime and impose new civil liabilities on those who deceive banks. And he is being investigated by a grand jury in Colorado under a new state law that makes it a crime to use deception to obtain private information.
In a separate lawsuit filed in 1996, he was accused of having helped a client, the International Beverage Corporation, get telephone records of a competitor, Saybrex International, from AT&T as part of an effort by International Beverage to learn who Saybrex's customers were. Saybrex, a family-run liquor exporter in Beverly Hills, Calif., ultimately successfully sued the competitor -- though not Mr. Rapp, who was not named as a defendant in the suit. Saybrex, however, was unable to force AT&T to tighten its procedures on customer records.
In a recent series of interviews, Mr. Rapp and his lawyers said there was nothing inherently wrong with using trickery to get confidential information, particularly since that information is often not otherwise obtainable. They also said that Mr. Rapp had cracked many cases in which deception was the only way to find money for victims of crimes and neglect, like abandoned spouses and children, and for plaintiffs in lawsuits who were unable to collect judgments, and for insurance companies and banks that had been defrauded.
"The message that the Government is sending in its case is that if you're a deadbeat dad, you don't have to worry anymore," Mr. Rapp said. "After all, how else are you going to get at this information?"
Mr. Rapp has his defenders, and is even cited as an exemplar by an industry group of investigators and debt collectors who so far have been moderately successful in watering down proposed legislation and obtaining significant loopholes for certain kinds of cases, such as tracking down assets for child support payments. The group, the Coalition to Amend the Financial Information Privacy Act, is paying for Mr. Rapp's legal defense in the F.T.C. case -- and using him to help raise money for its lobbying efforts.
The coalition's members maintain that the practice of pretexting is no different from what police officers or some journalists do when they go undercover or assume false identities in the course of doing their jobs.
Critics of the information brokers say that publicly available data bases and computer services offer a variety of information about people and their finances, including their Social Security numbers, the prices they paid for their homes and any existing liens. And they note thatother information, like bank deposits, can be obtained when necessary through a court subpoena.
But Mr. Rapp and his supporters say that information like bank and telephone records is generally not publicly available, that it can change quickly during the time it takes to get a judge's order, and that the only way money can be recovered in many instances is by duping a financial institution.
"What our clients are trying to do is even the odds," said Stephen C. Leckar, a lawyer at the Washington firm Butera & Andrews, which represents the coalition and Mr. Rapp. "If some people don't pay their bills, investigators like Mr. Rapp are just leveling the playing field."
But the F.T.C. sees it as a privacy issue. "Touch Tone's pretexting is a particularly pernicious invasion of consumers' privacy -- using deception to gain access to sensitive, private financial information," Robert Pitofsky, the F.T.C.'s chairman, said. "This case should send a strong message to information brokers that the F.T.C. will pursue firms that use false pretenses at the expense of consumers' privacy and also create opportunities for economic injury to consumers."
The banking industry is caught in the middle. On the one hand, it has publicly denounced the deceptive techniques and called for new legislation, although it has also tried to make sure that any new laws do not create liabilities for the banks that might be too quick about turning over confidential information. On the other hand, many of the clients of investigators like Mr. Rapp have been banks seeking to collect delinquent loans.
"There's little question that some banks will hire information brokers," said John Byrne, a senior counsel at the American Bankers Association and an expert on privacy issues. "We have tried to emphasize that banks should ask questions about how they are getting information and that there are legitimate means of getting at the same stuff."
Court papers in both the Saybrex and F.T.C. lawsuits describe Mr. Rapp and his employees as using fake telephone numbers and phony corporations to deceive banks or telephone companies into turning over confidential information.
In the F.T.C. case, transcripts of calls to banks that were recorded as part of the Government's surveillance show Touch Tone employees pretending to be doddering customers in order to obtain Social Security numbers and other information, like the maiden name of an account holder's mother. In some cases, bank representatives declined to help. But in others, they guided the Touch Tone employee to the correct answer and even supplied information like account balances.
Private investigators familiar with the practices of information brokers say another common technique is the "Trojan check." The broker sets up a dummy corporation and sends a check for a small amount of money to the target of the investigation either as a supposed rebate or award. When the target deposits or cashes the check, information about the target's bank account is imprinted on the canceled check. The broker can then use that information to approach the bank.
The legislation and legal fights come as Washington has become captivated by privacy issues.
Late last week, the House Commerce Committee inserted a variety of consumer privacy protections into the latest version of legislation to overhaul the banking system. Those proposals, which were endorsed by consumer groups and include a new right to sue companies that violate their customers' privacy rights, threatens to undermine broad industry support for the legislation.
Experts say it is not clear whether the broadly worded existing Federal fraud laws would permit the criminal prosecution of a person who deceives an institution to gain access to private information, which is why Congress may act this year to make the law more explicit.
On the Web pages and court papers of the coalition supporting Mr. Rapp, he is portrayed as a victim of an overzealous Federal agency, an agency that if it prevails will make it more difficult for abandoned wives and their children to find desperately needed assets of their deadbeat dads.
But even as Mr. Rapp has quickly become the industry's poster boy for what the coalition has called a "witch hunt" by regulators, it turns out that he has had his own more serious difficulties with the law.
Mr. Rapp served four years in prison in the 1970's and 80's in Colorado for theft, which was a violation of his probation on an earlier conviction for auto theft. State records in Denver show that in 1992 he pleaded guilty to impersonating a peace officer. He and his wife have had more than $38,000 in tax liens imposed by the Federal Government for failing to pay taxes.
The industry's using him as their symbol "is like bankers embracing Jesse James," said Marshall B. Grossman, a Los Angeles lawyer who represents Saybrex.
Because he is a man who has made a career out of deception, it can be difficult to sort through the substance of many of Mr. Rapp's claims.
He said in an interview that the investigations and the poor health of his parents had driven him out of business in recent weeks, a business that he said had annual revenue of about $1 million in recent years.
He said that there was nothing wrong with using deception to get at private information and that his clients over the years had included banks, tabloid newspapers and television programs. He asserted that he had trained half of the nation's information brokers, had solved "over 100 cases a day" and that he had worked for private investigators seeking information for news organizations about the families of the victims of the Columbine High School shootings in Littleton, Colo.
He also said he had done work for agents at two offices of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, but he refused to provide any references or say anything more about the work.
Indeed, many of his assertions could not be verified.
He also asserted that he had received an "associate's degree" in criminal justice from Metropolitan State College in Denver. But Carrie Schafer, the communications director for the college, said school records showed that Mr. Rapp had attended the school but did not complete a degree.
While Mr. Rapp has had no qualms about using trickery to obtain confidential information on behalf of his clients, he so values his own privacy that he was hesitant to be photographed for this article.
"We live way out in the county and no mail comes here," he said. "Everything is quiet. That's the way I like it. Nice and quiet and easy."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: James J. Rapp, a Colorado man who operates a private investigation business, is at the center of a storm over the use of deception to obtain personal information. (Nico Totenhofd for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5149 GROCERIES & RELATED PRODUCTS, NEC (81%); NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOUCH TONE INFORMATION INC CLEARLY CANADIAN BEVERAGE CORP (81%); GLOBAL ENTERTAINMENT HOLDINGS/EQUITIES INC (63%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOUCH TONE INFORMATION INC FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRIVACY; FRAUDS, MISAPPROPRIATION AND SECURITIES VIOLATIONS INVESTIGATIONS (92%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (89%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MISAPPROPRIATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); GRAND JURY (73%); LAWYERS (72%); SENTENCING (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); LEGISLATION (67%); INJUNCTIONS (67%); INTERVIEWS (60%); 

PERSON: RAPP, JAMES J HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1999



293 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: T.W.A. and Union Reach Pact

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Trans World Airlines and the union representing its flight attendants and machinists said yesterday that they had reached a tentative agreement on a new contract.
The union said it would recommend that its members approve it. 
 Late last month, T.W.A. presented what it said was its best and final offer to the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers union, which represents about 16,000 flight attendants, ground workers and machinists at the St. Louis-based airline. The union had recommended its members reject the pact.
Terms of the contract, which is expected to be presented to union members in the next few days, were not released yesterday. But William O'Driscoll, president and directing general chairman of the machinists' District Lodge 142, said the deal was a significant improvement over previous contract offers.
The airline had said its earlier offer would bring the employees -- who made financial concessions to help T.W.A, the nation's eighth-largest airline, during two bankruptcy reorganizations this decade -- to 90 percent of industry standard wages by the summer of 2001.
The union said it would cancel ratification votes in progress on T.W.A.'s previous contract offers and urge acceptance of the latest deal. The two sides pledged no work stoppages or disruptions during the expected one-month ratification period.
"We are pleased to have reached tentative agreement on new contract proposals that the I.A.M. feels will better serve the interests of its members and that T.W.A. regards as achievable and financially realistic," said William Compton, T.W.A.'s president and chief executive.
T.W.A.'s stock closed Friday unchanged at $4.4375 a share. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWAIE (AMEX) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES INC (TWA) TRANS WORLD AIRLINES INC (96%); TRANS WORLD AIRLINES INC (59%); INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES INC (TWA) INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS AIRLINES (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); STRIKES (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN PIERRET (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1999



294 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Metropolitan Diary

BYLINE: By Enid Nemy

 BODY:

DEAR DIARY:
My son was scheduled to land at Newark Airport at 11:05 P.M. Our arrangement was that I would pick him up unless the flight was significantly delayed, in which case he would take a cab. When I pulled to the curb at the arrivals level, I learned he would be delayed about 25 minutes. Concerned that he might automatically take a cab, I opened and sat on the back of my Jeep so that I would be visible if he passed by in a cab. I had brought a book and started reading.
Within five minutes, the inevitable police car pulled up to move people from the curb. The window rolled down and the officer driving called out to me, "What are you reading?" 
 " 'The Magic Mountain' by Thomas Mann."
"Thomas Mahn," he said, correcting my pronunciation. "Why are you reading that?"
"I'm not sure. It just caught my attention in the library."
"O.K.," he said. "I respect people who read good books. You can stay."
There were three more sweeps to clear the stopped cars but the officers let me continue reading. CRAIG CAREY
Attending the current revival of "Death of a Salesman" reminded Kenneth Seeman Giniger of a remark overheard when he and his late wife were leaving the theater after the original production in 1949. At that time, the man behind them informed his companion, "That New England territory never was any damn good."
 Natasha Brenner doesn't feel shortchanged even though her 15 minutes of fame lasted only about three seconds. Late last month, she was preparing dinner and listening to the 7 o'clock news on Channel 7. There was a feature on the New York 1939 World's Fair, and as she chopped and minced she heard various buildings and highlights described. When the music of a swing band permeated the kitchen she raised her head just in time to see a close-up of herself jitterbugging.
"Sixty years came back in a wink," she said. "It may have been only three seconds, but it was coast to coast and border to border!"
A doctor at Jacobi Medical Center recently noticed the following information, after the name, on the badge of an elevator operator:
Occupation: Elevator Operator
Dept: Vertical Transportation.
A friend of Mildred Cohen's does volunteer work, and took a group of first graders to a nursing home for a visit. One little girl approached a woman in a wheelchair and asked, "How old are you?" "Oh, I'm very old; I'm 89," the woman said.
"That's really old," the youngster replied. "Did you start with one?"
 
SHAMELESS SPRING
I walk in Central Park
Mother Nature introduces her many daughters
across a pond.
One tosses cherry blossoms in her hair.
A willowy willow sinuously waves her pale green tresses
tendril ends caress the water.
A genteel breeze kisses my cheek
and spreads a moving mantilla of lace
across the sparkling bosom of the lake.
I am pleasured by the perfume wafted
by these spring maidens
as they seduce me shamelessly
out in the open
in sight of everyone.
 DAVID GOLDBERG
(member of the Writers Workshop at the Council Senior Center on the Upper West Side)
Dear Diary:
My friend and I were in a swank East Village bar for a book reading/perfume introduction. The author is tres fabulous, her friends are tres fabulous and I was there because I happen to work for her publisher.
About 10 minutes into the reading, I noticed a woman with long, thick gray-blond hair -- and watched as it went up in flames. Not singed, mind you: it was on fire, lighted from a too-close candle behind her head. I shouted, "Oh my God, ma'am -- your hair!" and the crowd swiveled to look at me. She bent her head, shook it and patted out the flames. The reading had stopped, and most of the bar was staring at her.
"Oh, I'm sorry," she said. "Keep going, please. Continue." She straightened her clothes, smoothed her burnt hair and moved the offending candle a few feet. She didn't even run to the bathroom to check the damage. Everyone turned to the front of the room, where the author picked up in the middle of her sentence and continued. No one, including the woman, batted an eyelash -- except my friend and I who moved here two years ago from the Ohio Valley. We eventually ran out of the room and exploded into laughter at the absurdity of it: in my hometown people would have stopped, dropped and rolled, as one is instructed to do in a fire. In New York they paused, assessed and moved on.
The fire woman? She mingled bit after the reading, then left, I hope to find a 24-hour hair salon.
I love this town. JODY HANDLEY
 
DADS ARE GREAT
Dads are everything
He is the blanket that comforts you
He is the clothes that warm you
He is the teacher that teaches you
He is the friend that plays with you
But most of all he is Dad and he is yours.
 ALLISON GUGGENHEIMER (age 8)
As a window cleaner in Manhattan, Ivor Hanson travels from job to job with a bucket of tools. He was on the 72d Street crosstown bus recently, sitting next to a boy of about 5 and his mother. The boy asked about the equipment, and Mr. Hanson explained how the mop wet the window, the squeegee wiped the water and dirt away, the chamois cloth soaked up any remaining drips and the pole allowed him to clean windows beyond the reach of his arm. The youngster considered for a moment and then piped up: "Sounds fun. Call my mom. Make a play date."
Dear Diary:
Those of us who walk from the Port Authority to and from our offices on the East Side are rewarded daily. First there's the cardiovascular reward of the brisk half-hour of exercise each way; then the economic reward of not paying the additional $3 a day in carfare. But there are many others as well.
Unpredictable but fun to receive and much appreciated are the little gifts promoting new products, entertainment and stores. Within the last month, on different days, I received a staple remover, shampoo, mousse and conditioner, chunks of muffins, coffee, gum, bottled juice, a plastic cup with a refrigerator magnet and store coupon inside, two Knicks posters and a mini-cup of Frappuccino. Plus there are all the tchotchke vendors along the route if I need to indulge in impulse buying.
Take the bus or subway across town? Never! Well, maybe in a blizzard. GLORIA YOSHIDA
 Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary, Style Department, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. Please include your name, address and daytime telephone number (required); upon request, names may be withheld in print. Letters become the property of The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and may be republished in all media.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Phil Marden)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (74%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (63%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (63%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (63%); NEW YORK (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); VOLUNTEERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1999



295 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
With Guns, A Safer World For Women?

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
WITH Congress primed to pass gun-control legislation, New Yorkers may be tempted to feel smug. The rest of the country is finally starting to share the prevailing distaste in the city for guns. Urbanites seem to be triumphing over the plaid-shirted guys driving the back roads in pickup trucks with N.R.A. decals.
But it's hard to remain smug if you talk to Dr. John R. Lott. He believes that thousands of New Yorkers, particularly women in poor neighborhoods, are victims of violent crimes each year because of the city's strict controls on guns. And he is not one of those guys in the pickup trucks. 
 Dr. Lott is an economist who teaches at the University of Chicago Law School. He grew up in a home without guns and never wanted to hunt. He did not object to the domestic gun controls imposed by his wife, who would not let their four sons have even toy pistols.
But then he did a study that persuaded him to buy a real gun -- with his wife's blessing. As a fellow economist, she too was converted by the data in the study, which tracked crime rates in every county in America for 18 years. The results were summarized in the title of his book, published by the University of Chicago Press last year: "More Guns, Less Crime."
Dr. Lott found that crime drops after a state enacts a right-to-carry law, which guarantees citizens a gun permit as long as they have no criminal records and meet a few specific requirements.
"With more citizens carrying guns, it becomes riskier for criminals to operate," Dr. Lott said. "Some of them switch to safer crimes -- you see an increase in larceny as they switch from robbing people to stealing cars. Some will shift to other jurisdictions, so there'll be an increase in violent crime in the counties just across the border of the adjacent state."
What if New York City, which now gives permits only to citizens who demonstrate a compelling need for a gun, was to adopt a right-to-carry law? Extrapolating from his research, Dr. Lott estimated that after the law had been in effect for five years, there would be about 100 fewer murders a year, 300 fewer rapes, 5,000 fewer aggravated assaults and 9,000 fewer robberies.
"The greatest beneficiaries of right-to-carry laws are residents of high-crime urban neighborhoods, especially women," Dr. Lott said. "A woman who behaves passively when confronted by a criminal is 2.5 times more likely to be seriously injured than a woman who has a gun. It's rare that she has to use the gun -- just brandishing it is usually enough to protect herself."
DR. LOTT argues that right-to-carry laws are particularly effective at discouraging shooting sprees in public areas. Noting that the restrictive policy on gun permits in the Denver area did not avert the killings at Columbine High School, he cited examples of armed citizens stopping students in shootings at schools in Pearl, Miss., and Edinboro, Pa.
"Once a state passes a right-to-carry law," he said, "there's an 84 percent drop in the rate at which multiple-victim shootings occur, and there are fewer fatalities when they do occur. If someone tries to start shooting in a crowded public place, there's a good chance that someone there will also be armed."
Dr. Lott does not advocate arming high school students, but he thinks that Congress made a mistake in 1995 by banning adults from having guns within 1,000 feet of a school. "We're trying to create safe cover for our children," he said, "but my concern is that we're creating safe zones for those interested in harming our children."
In academia, debate has been lively over the meaning of Dr. Lott's research. Gary Kleck, an eminent criminologist at the University of Florida, terms it "mandatory reading for anyone who is open-minded and serious about the gun-control issue," but he cautions that the reductions in crime may be largely because of unknown factors other than right-to-carry laws.
Outside academia, Dr. Lott's work has driven gun-control advocates to desperate measures. Many have spread false accusations that he is financially beholden to the gun industry. The most surprising development, Dr. Lott said, has been dozens of death threats from gun-control advocates.
"I never expected this much attention," he said, "although I can understand why people instinctively want to get rid of guns. Bad things can happen with guns. But guns can also be used to stop bad things from happening, and the net effect is that they save lives." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MORE GUNS, LESS CRIME (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; WOMEN; FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL; BOOKS AND LITERATURE GUN CONTROL (91%); CRIME RATES (91%); FIREARMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (89%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); WOMEN (89%); ROBBERY (78%); VEHICLE THEFT (77%); CITIES (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); LAWYERS (72%); BOOK REVIEWS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); LITERATURE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN; LOTT, JOHN R (DR) JOHN R LOTT (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1999



296 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: Illness as a Metaphor for Computer Bugs

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 13

 BODY:
The implications of the malicious software program that wove its way around the globe last week struck home for Bernardo Huberman, a physicist at Xerox, in the form of a terse voice mail he received at work on Thursday.
"Our computer system administrators sent me a message saying, 'The worm has hit Xerox, but we've hunted it down and killed it,' " he recalled. 
 To Mr. Huberman, who has studied computer networks for more than a decade, the biological allusions were an apt reminder that the explosive growth of the Internet has numerous parallels to natural systems -- and many are not reassuring.
"I believe that we are indeed living in a computational ecosystem which is more and more globally cross-linked," he said. Or to put it more simply, "It's an amazing system, and it's very vulnerable."
In a world where computers, once isolated work tools, are increasingly the very engine driving modern business life, computer researchers say they are detecting an ominous trend toward programs that mimic viruses and pestilence in the physical world.
The latest focus of concern is a program known among computer researchers as a worm. The one last week was apparently conceived in Israel and quickly spread to Europe and the United States, mailing itself from computer to computer and destroying its victims' files along the way. Called Explore.exe -- for the name of the file it contained that set off the damage -- the worm has affected thousands of computers worldwide and forced a number of corporations to abruptly shut their E-mail systems, in a frantic effort to control the spread of the infection.
 Like biological diseases, which exploit the most basic mechanism of life -- the power of DNA to replicate itself -- a subculture of modern virus-writing now manipulates that same power of replication within the world of interconnected computers.
And while the dominance of a single environment -- the one powered by Microsoft software and Intel chips -- offers the benefits of compatibility among machines, some say it may share the vulnerabilities of fields planted with just one crop.
"The analogies are extremely close," said Richard Dawkins, a biologist at Oxford University. "When you make machines that are capable of obeying instructions slavishly, and among those instructions are 'duplicate me' instructions, then of course the system is wide open to exploitation by parasites."
Indeed, some computer scientists believe that in the rise of the Internet and the World Wide Web, society has struck a Faustian bargain -- gaining the potential of robotic software agents, which can flit from computer to computer to do their masters' bidding almost intelligently, but accepting as well the darker prospect of software infections that can spur cybernetic plagues.
"This may simply be the price you will have to pay for having the flexibility, adaptability, autonomy of this new networked world," said Kevin Kelly, author of "Out of Control: The New Biology of Machines, Social Systems and the Economic World" (Addison Wesley, 1994).
To be sure, biological metaphors used to describe the hostile software are only that, and the analogies do break down because the so-called computer viruses are manmade, not natural, and are frequently designed to be destructive.
But some researchers assert that such diseases are a direct outgrowth of the remarkable complexity emerging in the realm of networked computers. Increasingly, they say, Internet viral issues will come to resemble the modern world's perpetual public health crisis.
"You need to look at this the way the Centers for Disease Control approach things," said Vernor Vinge, a computer scientist at San Diego State University. "There are always new problems on their threat board."
In fact, computer scientists have known about these risks since the first worm programs were written by researchers at the Xerox Corporation's Palo Alto Research Center in the early 1970's.
Experimenting with the power of networked computers, scientists fashioned a wide variety of helpful programs, ranging from "vampire" worms that kept the network's computers laboring late at night to "diagnostic" worms that spread software repairs around the research center.
But a software error in one of the lab's early worms caused the program to run amok, crashing computers everywhere in the building.
Today computer researchers debate what distinguishes worms from viruses, both metaphors drawn from science fiction. The term "worm" first appeared in John Brunner's 1975 novel "Shockwave Rider" (Del Rey Books) while "virus" first appeared in a computer context in David Gerrold's "When Harley Was One" (Ballantine, 1972).
Traditionally, the term "virus" has been used to describe software codes that infect computers by attaching themselves to documents or programs that are passed along. A "worm," by contrast, has been self-propelling, that is, a program sent within the attachment that can then send itself along without any action by the person who receives it.
But the most recent generation of malicious programs -- like the Melissa virus, which spread rapidly around the world in late March, and Explore.exe, the worm that emerged in Israel last Monday -- blend aspects of both types.
The world of computer networks has not yet produced the most telling biological analogy -- evolution. But a particular class of hostile programs known as polymorphic viruses has been designed since 1993, with the ability to mutate to evade the pattern detection capabilities of modern antivirus scanning programs.
And antivirus researchers are also turning to "biological" solutions to face down hostile software codes. For example, last month the Intel Corporation, I.B.M. and the Symantec Corporation jointly released new antivirus software they call a "Digital Immune System."
Just as a biological immune system offers a systemic approach to illness, the new software shifts the antivirus response from the PC to an entire corporation's network, automatically relaying suspect programs for inspection and directly immunizing individual computers.
There have been other attempts to build systems that are immune from security threats. For example, the original intent of the Java programming language was to prohibit the kind of file havoc wreaked last week by creating a "sandbox" that limits a program's destructive capabilities.
Strikingly, the rapid spread of last week's outbreak was made possible because most of the world's users of personal computers now run Microsoft software. The worm was written to destroy documents written in Microsoft applications like Word, Excel and Power Point and certain programming files.
"This is the classic result of a computer monoculture," said W. Daniel Hillis, a computer scientist at Walt Disney's Imagineering unit. Like agricultural ecologies that become unstable relying on only one or a few crops, so the computer world is vulnerable to the degree it relies on Microsoft software.
Noting that the worm had attacked large American military contractors, including Boeing and General Electric, Art Amolsch, editor of FTC Watch, a Washington policy newsletter, suggested that the Government should insure software diversity among its agencies and contractors.
"I propose that no Government agency be allowed to run more than 34 percent of its personal computers on one proprietary operating system by a date certain," he said.
To Mr. Hillis, who in the 1980's experimented with advances in software programs using "evolutionary" techniques in which the programs adapt to their environment, a transition is under way in which computers will be viewed less like mechanical devices and more like organisms, which better accommodate imprecision and failure.
"Today we have the fragility of an engineered system where every part works" but the system itself can fail, he said. "But in the future we're going to engineer systems with the expectation that everything is broken all the time. That's how we treat biological systems today."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Digital Dangers"
As with diseases in the physical world, programs created to wreak havoc with computers have varied characteristics. Here are five types of infections and some prominent examples of each. Many have characteristics of more than one type.
 
MACRO -- Preys on documents like spreadsheets and data bases.
 
Concept (1995) -- Proved more than programs could be infected. Contained code that read And that's enough to prove my point.
 
Melissa (1999) -- Tried to send itself to first 50 e-mail addresses found in victim's files; turned Word documents into templates.
 
TROJAN HORSE -- Initially seems benign; may act as any type of infection thereafter.
 
Happy99.exe (1999) -- Displayed a window titled Happy New Year 1999!! while showing fireworks to disguise the fact that it was copying itself over the Internet.
 
Explore.exe (1999) -- Arrives attached to an e-mail, seemingly sent by an acquaintance. It is also a worm that, when launched, seeks to e-mail itself to other PC's and to destroy certain Microsoft Office and programmer file types.
 
BOOT SECTOR -- Affects startup sector of floppy or hard disks.
 
Stoned (1989) -- Every eighth time a PC was started from an infected 5.25 inch floppy, Your PC is now Stoned! appeared on screen.
 
Michelangelo (1992) -- If a PC was started on March 6, the artist's birthday, it destroyed the hard disk.
 
EXECUTABLE FILE -- Affects program files, not the files created by them.
 
Friday the 13th (1987) -- Deleted any program launched on a Friday that fell on the 13th of the month.
 
Chernobyl (1999) -- Erased hard drive and ROM BIOS (basic input/output system).
 
WORM -- Self-propelled; can move and replicate through a network.
 
Internet (1988) -- Exploited flawed network security to rapidly copy itself onto computers linked to the Internet, overloading thousands of computers with copies of itself. (Source: ICSA Inc.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (69%); ISRAEL (55%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (69%); ISRAEL (55%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SECURITY; RESEARCH; ELECTRONIC MAIL COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (87%); SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION (78%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (77%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (77%); BIOLOGY (76%); INTELLIGENT AGENTS (73%); ROBOTICS (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); TRENDS (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1999



297 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Washington's Mayor Faces a Campaign-Finance Inquiry

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 13

 BODY:
So far Anthony A. Williams, Mayor of the District of Columbia, has committed few of the ethical and managerial blunders that characterized the previous administration, but now campaign-finance charges are threatening his squeaky-clean image.
Six months ago, Mr. Williams took over a city plagued by financial crises and began making changes. But now the city's office of campaign finance is asserting that Mr. Williams violated city law by waiting about eight months before disclosing two consulting arrangements made in July and August 1998, when he was running for office. A hearing is set for this week. 
 Campaign law requires candidates to report changes in their incomes or other information in their financial disclosure filings within 30 days.
Mr. Williams served as the city's chief financial officer for three years before resigning to run for Mayor in last November's election.
Congress has shown confidence in Mr. Williams, passing bills that would shift authority for the day-to-day operation of Washington's government back to its elected officials from the control board that Congress created to oversee its finances in 1995.
In a speech this spring at the National Press Club in Washington, Mr. Williams said that "restoring faith and confidence in the government" was a major focus of his administration.
Marion S. Barry, who did not seek re-election last year, preceded Mr. Williams as mayor, serving three terms from 1978 to 1990 and returning to office in 1994 after a six-month prison term on drug charges. Mr. Barry's personality and politics shaped Washington for almost two decades.
Mr. Williams filed a financial statement on July 17, 1998, about a month after resigning as the city's chief financial officer and announcing his candidacy for mayor. The statement indicated no outside income. But two weeks later, on July 31, Mr. Williams accepted a consulting fee of $30,000 from the Arthur Andersen accounting company. And on Aug. 6, he signed a contract with Nationsbank Corporation for $10,000.
It was not until April 1999, in financial statements that all Washington officials must file annually, that Mr. Williams disclosed information on his outside employment. After that filing, the office of campaign finance asked for more information, and on May 28, Mr. Williams complied.
Mr. Williams issued a statement saying that "nothing improper occurred" in the work he conducted for the two companies.
"I should have disclosed the fact of my outside employment earlier and inadvertently failed to do so," Mr. Williams said. "For this oversight, I am sorry."
The Mayor has been ordered to appear at a hearing before the director of the campaign finance office and Washington's board of elections and ethics on Wednesday.
The campaign finance office could impose a $1,000 fine, $500 for each violation.
Mr. Williams contends that his work was not a conflict of interest, and that the work with the two companies did not "involve their relationship with the District of Columbia."
Peggy Armstrong, the Mayor's spokeswoman, said Mr. Williams would provide any information that would be helpful. The finance office has asked for Mr. Williams's financial records, including canceled checks and statements showing the dates and amounts of his contracts with Arthur Andersen and Nationsbank.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anthony A. Williams admits an oversight in disclosing income. (Carol T. Powers for the New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (55%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (55%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; ELECTIONS; FINANCES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); ETHICS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); ELECTION LAW (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); POLITICS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, ANTHONY A (MAYOR) ANTHONY A WILLIAMS (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1999



298 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Group Says New Drugstores Are a Menace to Main Street;
As National Chains Move Into Downtown, Preservationists Fear for Historic Buildings

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
The men (and woman) at the Oswego Elks Lodge are pretty tight-lipped these days.
"We read in the paper all this stuff about Rite Aid, but I can't tell you anything," said Allen Todd, who is on the lodge's board of trustees. "We're doing a study." The woman who answered the phone at the lodge was terse: "The Exalted Ruler is away, and even if he was here, he wouldn't tell you anything." 
 The Elks are deciding whether to sell their historic 1859 Second Empire-style brick house with mansard roof and tower -- a sort of gentle version of an Addams Family house -- to a buyer that everyone, including the local newspaper, thinks represents the Rite Aid drugstore chain. The mystery buyer has reportedly offered a hefty $1 million.
Mr. Todd, despite his wariness, admitted one more thing: the buyer, whoever it is, wants to knock down the old lodge at West Bridge and West Fifth Streets, a major crossroads in town.
"I suppose I wouldn't want to see it torn down," Mr. Todd conceded, "but it's old and sure needs a lot of repair."
The Elks lodge is only one of dozens of old and arguably historic buildings in New York State that are threatened with demolition because they happen to be standing in an ideal spot for a drugstore: a site where the four corners meet in a small town, or at an important intersection in a larger city. Nationally, there are hundreds more such buildings.
As the chain drugstores -- giants like Rite Aid, Walgreen and CVS -- continue their march into small and big towns across the country, building boxy cinder-block stores with drive-up windows and plenty of parking, the National Trust for Historic Preservation has decided to do what it can to stop the drugstores' demolition of historic structures.
And so, when the Trust holds a news conference this morning to announce its annual list of the 11 most endangered historic sites, No. 1 will be "the corner of Main and Main" -- the heart of town, often the site of a prominent old bank, department store or theater, or a cluster of houses facing the town green. Often, preservationists concede, these prominent buildings are vacant -- and not official landmarks.
If the owners are determined to sell, all sides agree, there is not much the preservationists can do, other than whipping up public opinion and lobbying lawmakers to list the buildings on a register of historic places.
The whole drugstore issue really got its start in New York State.
"This is a phenomenon that came to us through the New York experience," Richard Moe, president of the National Trust, said on Friday. "There seems to be an awful lot of activity there." Mr. Moe said he applauded the chain stores' move back into the cities' centers, away from far-flung malls -- "it's what we've been working for," he said. But he certainly does not approve of their decision to knock down antique buildings to do it.
Right now, 37 drugstores are planned for major intersections in New York, said Tania Werbizky, the director of technical services for the Preservation League of New York State and the woman leading this particular preservation crusade.
"We've seen the number of drugstore expansions double in the last two years," she said, "and most aim for the key corner downtown."
The communities, she said, "mainly are caught unawares by the magnitude of change construction creates. In mid-size communities, you typically find the post office, the hardware store, maybe the former hotel, often a park or church -- and now this church overlooks an 11,000-square-foot concrete box."
Among the sites at peril are the massive red-brick School 10 in Albany, threatened by Eckerd drugstores; an imposing 1915 Classical Revival bank in Olean (a few blocks from the 1917 Palace Theater, which was demolished last year with four other buildings to build an Eckerd), and some large Colonial Revival houses on Elmwood Avenue in Buffalo. In Buffalo, a developer who has been identified with Rite Aid is suing the city to allow the demolition.
Yet preservationists said there have been victories: in Ballston Spa, near Saratoga, village officials denied a request for a zoning variance and kept Rite Aid from ripping out several buildings in a Victorian neighborhood. In Hornell, in Steuben County, Ms. Werbizky said, another Rite Aid project was thwarted when residents sued to save six buildings proposed for a National Register historic district. The salvation of the 1928 Monroe Theater in Rochester was announced on June 2.
The drugstore chains say they rarely go after genuine landmarks.
"Overall, we don't target historic buildings," said Michael Polzin, a spokesman for Walgreen, which has its headquarters in Deerfield, Ill. "But it's also very important to distinguish between buildings that are truly historic and those that are just old."
"Is this a pre-eminent example of Frank Lloyd Wright," he continued, "or just some 100-year-old falling-down wreck?"
Occasionally, the chain drugstores do reuse old buildings. The problem with rehabilitation, Mr. Polzin explained, is that Walgreen and the other chains have strict design guidelines for their stores.
"First, it must be either the right size building or one we can make into the right size -- it must make economic sense," he said, echoing the comments of the spokeswoman for Rite Aid. "It has to be a free-standing building, about 11,000 square feet, and there must be ample space for the drive-through pharmacy window. There should be ample parking in the front and on the side, for around 60 or so cars."
Mr. Polzin said the Walgreen chain has several times recycled a large chain grocery store, which are generally 15,000-square-feet cinder-block buildings with open floor space. The problem with buildings over 50 years old, he said, is that they "aren't built so they can be converted."
When the drugstores do resuscitate an old bank or theater, preservationists applaud them.
On Myrtle Avenue in Ridgewood, Queens, an enormous limestone Beaux-Arts bank building with an arched entry and Corinthian columns has been recycled by Rite Aid.
And in Corning, N.Y., Eckerd has taken over two adjacent main street buildings that were used by -- guess what? -- a drugstore.
"It's one of the rare successes," Ms. Werbizky said, "and we want to do everything we can to encourage them."
Is being declared Public Enemy No. 1 the way to do it?
Mr. Polzin, the spokesman for Walgreen, laughed when the question was posed.
"Just keep this in mind," he replied. "It's the decision of the property owner. Maybe the reason a building is not designated a landmark is because the owner didn't want it.
"And now," he said, "we want that corner!"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Eckerd chain wants to demolish the red-brick School 10 in Albany and use the site for a drugstore, one of 37 stores planned for major intersections in New York. (David Jennings for The New York Times); Preservationists applaud when buildings are destined for renovation rather than the wrecking ball. Rite Aid recycled a bank at Myrtle and Cypress Avenues in Ridgewood, Queens. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B1); Two houses in Ballston Spa, above, were saved when Rite Aid's request for a zoning variance was denied. The 1917 Palace Theater, below, and four other buildings in Olean were demolished for an Eckerd store. (Preservation League of New York State); (Tania Werbizky)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RAD (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (92%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (92%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ELKS (ORGN); RITE AID CORP; NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION RITE AID CORP (92%); NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ELKS (ORGN); RITE AID CORP; NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OSWEGO (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGSTORES; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (91%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); HISTORY (89%); RETAILERS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); LOBBYING (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE ALLEN TODD (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1999



299 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Voters Dismiss Political Fervor For Tax Breaks

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

DATELINE: ANSONIA, Conn., June 11

 BODY:
A $50 gift from the State Capitol for every adult might seem a welcome bonus on the steep streets of this blue-collar town, which has been the victim of a depressing parade of fires, strikes and bankruptcies in the century since its now ghostly riverfront factories churned out anything molten, from bayonets to thimbles.
The average annual per capita income here, about $23,000, ranks 157th out of Connecticut's 169 towns. Even Ansonia's leading conversation piece, a plaque marking the high-water mark from the still lamented flood of 1955, corroded away and is now just a memory. 
 But the sales-tax rebate that Connecticut lawmakers approved with much self-congratulation before adjourning on Thursday is seen by many here as wasteful and even insulting, considering what they say the state could buy if the whole $110 million were used in one place.
"People take $50 and think, 'Whoop-de-do,' " said David Ings, 31, a construction laborer. "They're just paying us off."
Mr. Ings's feelings reflect what some pollsters are calling a waning appetite for tax cuts in the New York metropolitan area, eight years after fury over Connecticut's new income tax produced a stream of death threats to lawmakers.
With a booming economy producing a happy electorate, many voters are telling pollsters they want government to use this time of plenty to rebuild schools and roads, instead of returning the bounty a few dollars at a time.
Legislatures in 36 states cut taxes last year, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures, and with revenue in most states running ahead of projections, at least that many are expected to do so again this year. Among them is New Jersey, where Gov. Christine Todd Whitman described a property-tax rebate as "from the State House to your house" when she signed it in April.
In New York, lawmakers continue to wrangle over a budget that was due on April 1, but significant tax cuts remain part of all three competing proposals.
As irresistible as tax cuts may seem to politicians, polls have found that voters are increasingly skeptical. In one of the starkest findings, 78 percent of respondents to a University of Connecticut poll said they would rather have the state use its surplus on services for citizens; just 18 percent said they would prefer a rebate.
The poll, taken from April 6 to 13, surveyed 500 adults and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus five percentage points.
"When we do tax questions, we don't find much hostility to the tax levels that exist in the tristate area," said Maurice Carroll, the director of the polling institute at Quinnipiac College in Hamden, Conn. "People are saying: 'The state has a lot of stuff to do. They have the money, and they should spend it on that stuff instead of sending it to me.' "
Nationally, Joel Slemrod, the director of the Office of Tax Policy Research at the University of Michigan Business School, surveyed a dozen polls about taxes early this month and said he was surprised to find that tax cuts came in low or even last on most voters' priority lists.
The bull market, these surveys find, has largely dissipated the Reagan era's anti-tax fervor, which followed the Proposition 13 tax revolt in California in 1978, when two-thirds of voters approved a freeze on property taxes after a campaign featuring bumper stickers crying, "Save the American Dream."
Gov. John G. Rowland, a Republican who proposed the Connecticut rebate, was elected in 1994 in part on his 26-page plan to eliminate the state income tax over five years.
But with the tax-cut fever broken, he has retained high approval ratings despite having abandoned that promise long ago, and it was not even an issue during his re-election campaign last year.
Frederick S. Yang, a partner in a Democratic polling firm, Garin-Hart-Yang Research Group, said that even today, few voters would turn down a tax cut.
"But people are not as interested in that as they have been in the past," Mr. Yang said. "In good economic times, people feel they can look beyond their own pocketbooks."
A leading Republican pollster, Frank Luntz, agreed. "In today's economic environment," he said, "the demand for tax cuts is not as great, because money is more plentiful."
Mr. Luntz said that apathy about taxes is most pronounced at the state level, where people are less concerned about wasteful spending than they are when they think about Washington. "The closer you are to home, the more willing people are to pay taxes," he said.
In Connecticut, State Representative Robert M. Ward, the House Republican leader, said he was pursuing tax cuts as a matter of philosophy, not in response to a clamor from constituents. "I call it 'starving the monster,' " he said. "The easiest way to control spending is to control revenues."
But Emanuela Ronzone, 28, who was shooting pool at Snookers Billiards Club here in Ansonia, said she would just spend her rebate on gasoline or cigarettes. "The schools need it more than I do," she said. "They're falling apart."
And Thomas P. Pepe, 51, a groundskeeping manager, said most people do not mind paying taxes if they go toward something worthwhile. "It's part of being an American -- helping people, especially the youth," he said. "We're not as selfish as the politicians think."
The politicians' focus on tax cuts has frustrated groups that had hoped states would use their record surpluses to restore parts of the social safety net that were casualties of the recession of the early 1990's.
"The citizen's voice doesn't seem to be making it into the back room," said Janice M. Gruendel, the executive director of Connecticut Voices for Children, which has sought more spending for programs like day care.
When the legislative session convened this winter, State Representative David B. Pudlin, a Democrat of New Britain, visited business and community groups to urge more spending for children and the working poor. "Let's fix the roof while the sun is shining," he told them.
Now, many of the repairs he had hoped for have been delayed or scaled back to pay for tax cuts. Representative Pudlin, the House majority leader, called the rebate "one of the stupidest things I supported in the budget," but said it was the price of winning Republican votes. He said his consolation was that the guidelines were expanded so that more people would be eligible.
"Some people in Connecticut probably go to the country club and sign the check over to the maitre d' as a tip," he said.
Here on the banks of the Naugatuck River, Mayor Nancy Valentine said that as she makes her rounds, she does not find anyone cheering a rebate. "Roads and schools are what's on everybody's tongue," she said. "It's not like somebody is going to take their $50 rebate and give it to the school. If you aggregate it, though, that's a lot of money, even for Ansonia." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STATE HOUSE PRESS (53%); HOUSE REPUBLICAN (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANSONIA (CONN); CONNECTICUT; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PUBLIC OPINION; SALES TAX TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SALES TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CITIES (78%); BUDGETS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); POLITICS (70%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1999



300 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Conservatives In Europe Gain Ground In Parliament

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BERLIN, June 13

 BODY:
Europe's center-left governments suffered a sharp setback today as conservative parties gained votes and won enough seats to become the largest group in elections to the European Parliament.
The defeat was particularly crushing for Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's governing Social Democrats in Germany, whose share of the vote plunged to 31 percent compared to 40.9 percent in national elections just nine months ago, computer projections showed. 
 The center-right Christian Democrats advanced to 48 percent, a sharp gain from 35.1 percent last September, as voters registered their unhappiness with a stagnant economy and Mr. Schroder's failure to have an effect on high unemployment.
With center-left Governments in office in the four largest European countries -- Germany, France, Britain and Italy -- the results suggested an electorate unmoved by what has been portrayed as NATO's victory in Kosovo and more concerned with a European economy that is scarcely growing while America's booms.
Certainly, there was no evidence of any war euphoria carrying the governing parties to victory. But voter turnout for elections to an assembly whose real power remains limited was extremely low, suggesting that the importance of the swing to the right should not be exaggerated.
Early projections showed that center-right parties -- gathered in a grouping known as the European People's Party -- would gain about 219 seats, 18 more than in 1994, and become the largest political force in the 626-member assembly.
The socialists, who emerged from the last elections in 1994 as the strongest party with 214 seats, appear certain to lose at least 30 seats and might finish with as few as 179 seats, the projections said.
Those center and socialist parties are certain to remain by far the largest groupings, trailed by the pro-market liberals with 48 seats and the environmentalist Greens with about 39. Other seats were split among extreme-right and extreme-left movements and regional parties.
The assembly, which generally meets in the eastern French city of Strasbourg, has limited powers but is able to veto the European budget and also call for the dismissal of the European Executive Commission, a power it exercised for the first time earlier this year when several commissioners were accused of fraud.
This flexing of parliamentary muscle against the officials who propose policy and run the community's affairs day-to-day was widely seen as a boost for greater democracy in the European Union. But voters were apparently unimpressed.
Turnout in Britain was just 23 percent, a mere 27 percent in Finland, 47 percent in France and 56 percent in Germany. This suggested that neither the Parliament's greater prominence nor the arrival of the common currency, the euro, had convinced people that voting in Europe-wide polls is important.
The conservative gains reflected the devastating defeat for Mr. Schroder in Germany and what appeared to be a poor showing by Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labor Party in Britain. Voter turnout in traditional Labor areas was very small, while conservative constituencies voted in larger numbers.
The French vote, marked by the highest abstention rate in any nationwide poll, was extremely fragmented. The Green vote surged to more than 10 percent from less than 3 percent in the last European poll in 1994, while pro-European and anti-European conservative parties shared close to 25 percent of the vote. The socialists of Prime Minister Lionel Jospin gained about 20 percent, exit polls showed.
The Green campaign in France was led by Daniel Cohn-Bendit, the leader of the 1968 French student uprising who is now a member of the German Green party. Mr. Cohn-Bendit is a German citizen, but nationals of one European country can campaign in another if they so choose.
In Germany, the result amounted to a stark warning to Mr. Schroder that his military and diplomatic efforts in Kosovo may have won him friends in Washington and other European capitals but have not impressed the people who voted for him because he promised to create jobs.
The German unemployment rate, still more than 10 percent and close to 20 percent in many parts of the former East Germany, has not come down since he took office. "We have understood," Mr. Schroder said today. "The fight for a new center must now resume with lower taxes for companies."
Germany, by far the largest economy in Europe, has failed to resolve a paralyzing debate over what degree of social protection and solidarity -- the hallmarks of the postwar success of the "social market" economic model -- must now be abandoned in favor of lower taxes. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (91%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (91%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GERMANY; EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); TRENDS (67%); CURRENCIES (60%); 

PERSON: SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); COHEN, ROGER GERHARD SCHRODER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1999



301 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Japan's New Strength May Embolden the Fed

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The Japanese economic revival is real, and the chances are good that it is going to last. That is welcome news for the world economy, particularly for other Asian countries. But it also makes it virtually certain that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates at the end of this month.
Japan reported last week that its economy grew at a remarkable annual rate of 7.9 percent in the first three months of 1999. That followed declines in five consecutive quarters. 
 There is still widespread skepticism about Japan's recovery, but financial markets now seem persuaded, with the yen strengthening and Japanese stocks rising even though the image of Japan Inc. has gone from invincible to incompetent over the past decade. The aura of invincibility led many observers to overlook or dismiss signs of trouble in Japan in the late 1980's. The new aura of incompetence has caused them to miss signs of revival now.
For example, Fuji Bank, a major Japanese financial institution, has redefined how it operates. Its old role was to take in money from depositors and lend it to the companies in its keiretsu, or group of companies. Fuji did so without a lot of regard for its own profitability, but so long as the economy was growing rapidly, it was a cozy relationship that benefited everybody.
When the Japanese bubble burst almost a decade ago, Fuji and other Japanese banks tried to act as if little had changed. They concealed bad loans and remained the piggy banks for companies in their groups in the belief that growth would surely make everything better again.
But it did not, and late in 1997 Fuji shocked Japan by failing to rescue Yamaichi Securities, a member of its keiretsu. In an interview last week, Toru Hashimoto, Fuji's chairman, said the bank refused to step in because it was worried about hidden losses at the brokerage firm stemming from what he called "dubious transactions."
But that was not how the public saw it. "The fact we didn't bail out Yamaichi was perceived as our weakness," Mr. Hashimoto said. Suddenly Fuji was rumored to be in trouble, and its stock price plunged.
In fact, the decision to let Yamaichi fail was a signal that things were changing for the better in Japan. Banks were coming to understand just how much they had been hurt by the old practices. By disclosing more information about bad loans than is customary in Japan, Fuji has since managed to persuade investors that it is in no worse -- and perhaps better -- shape than other Japanese banks. Its stock price has rallied.
Japan's system of lifetime employment also is changing, albeit slowly. Fuji is trying to cut its payroll through attrition, not layoffs, but Mr. Hashimoto said it is changing its pay structure to reward accomplishment rather than seniority. Fuji also has a new system of hiring in place in which some people are hired on terms that pay them more but offer no guarantee of job security. "The old system and the new system will coexist," he said. He seems to hope that some workers who are passed over for raises will choose to quit.
Skeptics about Japan note that there have been false springs before. In the first quarter of 1996, the economy was reported to have risen at a 12.3 percent annualized rate only to quickly stumble. This time is likely to be different because growth now reflects surprisingly strong domestic spending, not the old strategy of boosting exports. This is "a home-grown Japanese recovery," says Robert Barbera, the chief economist of Hoenig & Company.
It is also a recovery based on old-fashioned stimulus. The Government ramped up public spending and cut interest rates as low as they could go. It pumped billions into sick banks and came up with a scheme to provide loan guarantees to small businesses. Japan has not proved it can grow when such stimuli are removed, but restructurings like the one under way at Fuji provide good reason to hope that it can.
Last year the Federal Reserve, fearing that Asia's illness would infect America, cut interest rates three times. Now, with Asia on the mend and some signs of inflation at home, the Fed is all but certain to rescind one of those cuts. It may rightly choose to take back two of them. That would surprise Wall Street, and show that the Fed is determined to resist inflation. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: EDITORIAL OBSERVER (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS; 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); ASIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF A LEVY (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); ASIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TRENDS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); JAPANESE YEN (70%); LAYOFFS (67%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD TORU HASHIMOTO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1999



302 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Practicality Is Biggest Foe Of ID Plan For R Movies

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, June 14

 BODY:
How are theaters going to enforce the plan announced last week at the White House to require teen-age moviegoers to show photo identification at R-rated films?
The conclusion in Hollywood is quite simple: The overwhelming number of them probably won't. 
 William Kartozian, president of the National Association of Theater Owners, which represents proprietors of about two-thirds of the movie screens in the nation, said that each theater would develop its own program to enforce the rating system, which has been largely flouted by teen-agers under 17. But studio distribution executives said that the effort faced two major hurdles.
One, of course, is that teen-agers manage to see R-rated films by asking older friends to buy tickets for them, or by buying tickets for, say, a Disney family film and then sneaking into viewings at multiplexes that show R-rated films.
The other enforcement hurdle lies in the economics of the theater business. Theaters earn most of their profits not from movies, but from concession sales of popcorn, soft drinks and hot dogs. As much as 80 cents of every dollar spent is pure profit to the theaters, and managers reap a percentage of concession sales as income.
Theater owners hardly dissuade teen-agers from hanging out in lobbies all day to play video games, which are proliferating at newer multiplexes; buy food, and glide from theater to theater. In this atmosphere, theater owners quite naturally hire people to work at concessions, not to check on teen-agers at individual screens.
Accordingly, Hollywood executives who deal with theater owners daily said that the White House announcement by the country's largest theaters and President Clinton was probably an ineffective way to curb the availability of violent films to children.
"It's unenforceable," a top studio distribution executive said. Few executives would speak on the record because of the White House role.
Another studio distribution executive, who worked for years at a large theater chain, said simply: "It's unworkable. It's impossible to police unless somebody is standing at the front door and checking tickets stubs and ID's -- and that won't happen."
Marvin Antonowsky, a veteran distribution executive for several studios, said: "It's specious. Kids can get into a multiplex. They'll buy a ticket to 'Tarzan' and see 'The Matrix.' Who'll stop them? You're talking about an honor system. Give me a break."
The ratings were set up by the Motion Picture Association of America in 1968, a time of social and sexual turmoil, to replace the prudish and archaic Hays Production Code, which controlled the sexual content of movies for decades. (Under the code, generally, film husbands and wives did not sleep in the same bed.) With the endorsement of theater owners, the board created the ratings as a guideline for parents.
Over the years the ratings evolved into five categories: G, for general audiences, usually cartoons or films for small children; PG, meaning that parental guidance is suggested and some material may be unsuitable for children; PG-13, meaning that parents are strongly cautioned that some material may be inappropriate for children under 13; R, for which youths under 17 must be accompanied by a parent or adult guardian, and NC-17, a relatively new rating, under which no one under 17 is admitted.
(Last week's announcement by the President did not involve R-rated video rentals, which some stores freely make to youths under 17. Some chains require adult applicants for membership to respond to a question about whether they want their children to be able to rent R-rated movies.)
The plan would require that a ticket taker or someone checking stubs seek ID's from those in line, which would be time-consuming. Even more daunting to owners, especially with the proliferation of multiplexes with 14, 16 or 18 theaters under one roof, theater employees would probably have to stand outside screens showing R-rated movies to insure that no one under 17 slipped in.
Any parent with a teen-ager knows that in terms of drinking, smoking and movies, where there's a will, there's usually a way. Even today, youths under 17 stand in line at a theater and ask an older friend, or a stranger, to buy a ticket to, say, "The Matrix," which is especially popular now among the teen-age crowd. Or a teen-ager may purchase a ticket for a PG-13 film and slip out in the middle to an adjoining theater to see the R-rated movie.
"It's like Prohibition, forbidden fruit," a studio chairman said. "Whenever you set up rules for teen-agers, you're inviting them to find a way around them."
By all accounts, the plan for ratings system enforcement will probably prove more effective in smaller towns than in larger cities like New York, Los Angeles and Chicago. Mike Patrick, chairman of Carmike Cinemas, a Columbus, Ga.-based chain with about 2,700 screens in smaller cities, or what he called "Hometown, U.S.A.," said that it would be extremely difficult, but not impossible, to enforce restrictions on teen- agers.
"The problem is when you have an 18-year-old who buys four tickets, and three of them go to his 16-year-old friend," Mr. Patrick said. "You have to police the auditorium as well as the selling of tickets. Is it realistic? It's extremely hard to do."
But Mr. Patrick said he would impose some unusual restrictions on the coming Stanley Kubrick film "Eyes Wide Shut," an R-rated movie with Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman that has strong sexual content. The film opens in July.
Mr. Patrick said he would place someone at the door of the theater showing the film to bar anyone under 17 from seeing it unless accompanied by a parent or a guardian adult.
"It's expensive and a lot of trouble and it irritates teen-agers, but it can be done," Mr. Patrick said.
But that plan seems to be an exception. Mr. Kartozian himself said that the rating system was meant to advise parents, and that the monitoring of what movies young people see rests in their hands as well as those of theater owners. "This is a shared responsibility," he said.
One studio distribution chief summed up the mood of many other distribution executives. "The dirty little secret of the distribution business is that with 16, 18, 24 plexes, kids show up and buy tickets for a PG-13 movie and see the one that's R-rated," he said.
"The staff is at the concession stand and the ticket office, not the theater door. Kids will see whatever they want to see." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); WHITE HOUSE (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; IDENTIFICATION DEVICES FILM (92%); MOVIE RATINGS (91%); CONTENT RATINGS (91%); MOVIE THEATERS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); CHILDREN (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); FILM GENRES (73%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (72%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (67%); THEATER (58%); SOFT DRINKS (52%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



303 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Inventories Rose and Sales Dipped in April

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14

 BODY:
Businesses added moderately to their stocks of goods on hand during April as sales weakened for the first time since January, the Commerce Department said today.
The value of total inventories at retailers, wholesalers and manufacturers rose two-tenths of a percent, to a seasonally adjusted $1.098 trillion in April. That was the weakest monthly performance for inventory-building since a decrease of one-tenth of a percent in January; in March, inventories had shown a rise of half a percent. 
Retailers added to their inventories by seven-tenths of a percent, for a total of $346.03 billion, a much slower rise than the 1.6 percent increase in March.
Analysts said the data implied a slower start for overall second-quarter growth as the economic expansion began its ninth year.
"This report shows that the economy began the second quarter on a softer note," said Gary Thayer, an economist at A. G. Edwards in St. Louis. "We've been hearing a lot about the economy potentially overheating, but the economic data aren't consistently supporting it.
Another report today, from the Federal Reserve's regional bank in Atlanta, showed some softening in production rates in May in the Southeast, though orders remained strong. Its monthly index of manufacturing activity eased to 9.1 from a revised 12.5 in April.
Concern has been mounting in financial markets that the Federal Reserve might soon increase interest rates to cool growth and so keep inflation pressures muted. Fed policy makers are set to meet on June 29 and 30 to consider interest rate strategy, so any economic reports until then are being closely scrutinized for signs of slowing that might damp price pressures.
Retailers have been building up their inventories steadily for nearly a year. The last time retailers reduced their stocks of goods for sale was in July 1998, when they fell two-tenths of a percent.
Overall sales decreased one-tenth of a percent, to $809.34 billion in April, a sharp reversal from robust consecutive jumps of 1.1 percent in both February and March.
Manufacturers trimmed their inventories during April by one-tenth of a percent, to $462.96 billion, after a reduction of one-tenth of a percent in March. Wholesalers built up their stocks of goods on hand by two-tenths of a percent, to $288.96 billion, after a matching two-tenths of a percent gain in March.
The inventory-to-sales ratio, a measure of how long it would take to deplete inventories at the current sales pace, edged up to 1.36 months in April from 1.35 months in March.
Inventories at auto dealers rose 1.8 percent, to $105.74 billion in April, less than half the 4.7 percent increase in March. Auto makers have reported brisk May sales, however, so producers are likely to build up their stocks of new cars. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (81%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); SALES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; PRODUCTION INVENTORIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INFLATION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



304 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Graduating Into Prosperity

 BODY:
As college graduation season draws to a close, it is evident that the gap between the experiences and expectations of the graduating class and their commencement speakers has never been greater. The speakers for the most part grew up in a world of economic highs and lows. They, or their parents, lived through the Great Depression, or at least a series of recessions, and learned to write on a typewriter. Today's graduates have not seen a recession since they were in junior high school and may never have touched a typewriter.
Who could better capture the economic moment, past and present, than Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board? He addressed the Harvard commencement last week, telling students there, and by extension across the country, that they would shape the future state of the world's "cultural, legal and economic institutions." It seemed fitting that one of the architects of the longest period of peacetime prosperity in American history would address men and women entering the working world at a time of unimaginable opportunities as well as unparalleled challenges. 
 The economy is booming. The labor market is the tightest it has been in 30 years and is unusually strong in all sectors. The unemployment rate for college graduates, ages 20 to 24, registered just 4.2 percent in May. The explosive growth of the computer industry has made the entry-level job market especially exciting and lucrative for this and recent graduating classes. The information-technology industry beckons the young. Growing up with computers and the Internet, they are well equipped to take advantage of the entrepreneurial possibilities such technology offers. Career-services offices at colleges report that increasing numbers of students are starting their own companies or joining newly created firms. Many believe they have nothing to lose and may soon join the expanding roster of young millionaires.
Entrepreneurial programs at colleges across the country are expanding. Columbia University, for example, has more than doubled such course offerings for undergraduates in the last several years. The Columbia Business School administers an entrepreneurial initiative fund, which invests in the companies of budding businessmen, allowing them to get on their feet with minimal debt.
Jobs in the information and technology sector, such as systems analysts, computer engineers and database administrators, are projected to more than double by 2006, and opportunities through the Internet seem limitless. The confidence and optimism are admirable, but the Class of '99 should not naively expect that the current economic expansion will be endless. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (86%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (86%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); HISTORY (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION (70%); ENGINEERING (69%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (65%); EMPLOYMENT (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



305 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 27; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: District of Columbia Debt Is Upgraded

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14

 BODY:
The bond rating for the District of Columbia was upgraded from junk to investment-grade status by Moody's Investors Service today, the District's first investment-grade rating from the company in four years.
Moody's raised the rating of the District's general obligation bond to Baa3, its lowest investment-grade rating, from Ba1, a high-risk investment rating. Moody's said it had a "positive outlook" on the debt, which means it might be upgraded again. The rating affects $3 billion of debt. 
 Moody's cited the likelihood that the District would finish with a budget surplus for a third consecutive fiscal year as one reason for the upgrade. The control board that now oversees much of the District's financial affairs will be removed after four consecutive years of surpluses.
Moody's follows the lead of Standard & Poor's, which raised its ratings on the District's bonds in April from junk status to investment grade. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE MOODY'S CORP (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FINANCIAL RATINGS (93%); BONDS (92%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (88%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (86%); BUDGETS (86%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



306 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Says New-Age Economy Can HaveOld Problems

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, warned today that increases in business efficiency could not counterbalance the strains on the economy forever.
Speaking before a Congressional committee, Mr. Greenspan revisited his favorite theme of the last few years, that huge investments in technology are yielding substantial gains in productivity, or output for every hour worked, a fundamental and far-reaching improvement in the way the economy functions.
But without directly addressing 
 the growing consensus that the central bank will raise interest rates as soon as the end of this month, Mr. Greenspan cautioned against counting on technology as a miracle cure for inflation or a rationale for ever-higher stock prices.
"The rate of growth of productivity cannot increase indefinitely," he told the first of three days of hearings held by the Joint Economic Committee on the role of technology in the economy. "While there appears to be considerable expectation in the business community, and possibly Wall Street, that the productivity acceleration has not yet peaked, experience advises caution."
Mr. Greenspan has been an advocate of the view that technology has helped improve the economy's ability to grow without inflation, but he has been distancing himself in recent months from the notion of a "new economy" in which inflation is no longer a threat. As he did in a speech last month, he noted today that "history is strewn" with miscalculations about technology developments and that policy makers had to be modest about their ability to predict technology's effects.
The tone of his remarks was in line with that of other Fed officials over the last month in making clear that the central bank increasingly sees early signs of problems brewing in an economy that has enjoyed a remarkable run of growth.
But he gave no clear indication of whether the central bank had enough evidence of resurgent inflation to nudge interest rates higher at its next policy meeting, on June 29 and 30. As a result, his comments had little effect in the financial markets.
Economists and investors expect Mr. Greenspan to provide a relatively unambiguous signal about his intentions when he testifies about monetary policy before the committee on Thursday, a day after the Government releases figures on consumer price inflation in May.
Mr. Greenspan was the first witness at the hearings, which the Joint Economic Committee is conducting in part to discuss such issues as tax breaks for research and development and the liability of technology companies for problems involving the Year 2000 software problem. The witnesses include William H. Gates, the chairman of the Microsoft Corporation, who will appear on Tuesday.
But the hearings also seem intended to give the Republican majority in Congress an opportunity to give a sympathetic ear to the technology industry, one of the most important battlegrounds in the fight between the parties for campaign donations, and one that Vice President Al Gore has worked hard to sew up for his Presidential race.
In highlighting the Year 2000 liability issue, the Republicans are putting on display the uncomfortable situation of the Democrats, who are trapped between their desire to court technology companies that want protection from lawsuits and the Democrats' traditional alliance with trial lawyers, who want to protect the right of computer users to sue.
Mr. Greenspan steered clear of both politics and specific references to monetary policy. He reiterated his belief that technology has been perhaps the dominant force in the economy in recent years, fostering widespread changes in the way businesses operate and contributing tremendously to the vibrancy and durability of the expansion, which is now in its ninth year. But with investors and economists looking for any clues about future rate increases, it was his warning about the limits of technology that was most provocative.
Many economists and investors expect the central bank to push its benchmark Federal funds target rate up by a quarter-point, to 5 percent, at the end of the month. Evidence that the economy continues to roar along, including a surge last month in retail sales, has already pushed up the long-term interest rates set by the market in recent weeks, in effect doing some of the Fed's job for it by squeezing sectors of the economy sensitive to interest rates, like housing.
Although a Fed tightening is not certain -- there are still scant signs that inflation has taken root -- the markets are increasingly asking not whether the Fed will move this month but whether the move will be a one-time action or the start of a series of rate increases that would take back all of last fall's easings.
The Fed cut rates three times last fall, in quarter-point increments, to keep the markets stable and the economy humming despite the global financial crisis.
But the financial crisis, which originated in Asia, now seems to be receding. A surprising rebound in economic growth in Japan during the first quarter -- provided it does not turn out to be a statistical fluke -- could prove to be an important turning point. And the fear that gripped the credit markets last fall is all but gone, replaced by more concrete concern that inflation could stage a comeback.
Moreover, as Jack Guynn, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, put it today, the "lucky streak" that the United States has enjoyed on inflation "has finally run out," at least to the degree that price increases have been held down by economic weakness in the rest of the world.
"Energy prices are up substantially from their year-ago levels, and other commodity prices have risen, too," Mr. Guynn said in a speech to a business group in Atlanta. "What's happened, of course, is that as the economies of Asia and elsewhere have turned the corner to recovery, global demand has picked up, and so have prices."
Mr. Guynn, who is a nonvoting member of the policy-making Federal Open Market Committee, said higher inflation was not inevitable. But he offered a list of issues that worry him, including "the residual stimulus" from last fall's rate cuts; signals that the bond market is increasingly concerned about inflation; rapid growth in the money supply, and the very low unemployment rate, which is 4.2 percent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Technology's economic effects were a focus of Congressional hearings yesterday. Alan Greenspan, left, the Federal Reserve chairman, testified as Louis V. Gerstner Jr., the chairman of I.B.M., awaited his turn. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MICROSOFT CORP (61%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); BONDS (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); AL GORE (58%); BILL GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



307 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Rises, but Nasdaq Is Pulled Down by Internet Sector

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices were mixed and activity remained subdued yesterday as traders and investors delayed putting money to work before an important inflation report that is scheduled for release tomorrow.
Long-term interest rates, which have risen sharply in recent weeks and put pressure on stocks, eased a bit yesterday. 
 Still, the drop in rates did little to alter the consensus that the Federal Reserve will raise short-term interest rates to dampen growth when its policy makers meet later this month.
Stocks that are sensitive to the business cycle, which do well in an expanding economy, helped to push the Dow Jones industrial average higher. But Internet stocks were crushed, pushed lower by negative developments affecting three of the group's most important companies -- America Online, Charles Schwab and Ebay -- as well as concerns about higher interest rates.
"The big, high-cap stocks are the allure, and money is coming out of technology and Internet stocks and even some small stocks" to move into those companies, said Bill Allyn, head of listed trading at Jefferies & Company.
For the most part, however, money was not going anywhere.
For the sixth time in the last eight sessions, fewer than 700 million shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange. At 832.2 million shares, volume on the Nasdaq market was a bit better but still well short of the one-billion-share trading sessions seen recently.
Led by DuPont, General Electric and Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, the Dow rose 72.82 points, or seven-tenths of a percent, to 10,563.33. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was flat, rising 0.36 point, to 1,294.00.
But the Nasdaq composite index, dragged down by the Internet sector, fell sharply. At the close, the Nasdaq was off 49.57 points, or 2.03 percent, to 2,398.31.
Some traders and analysts said the market's tone might change after tomorrow's release of May consumer price data.
The April numbers showed the biggest monthly increase in more than nine years. That report rattled financial markets and led to an ever-rising chorus that the Fed would move soon to raise interest rates.
A report showing the April figures to be an aberration would be helpful but hardly conclusive, said Jeffrey Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers.
"The stock market has priced itself for at least one Fed tightening, and if the Fed does go, it will have to position itself for another," Mr. Applegate said.
"If the consumer price numbers look pretty benign, then the market might take comfort from that," he added. "But I suspect this is not something that will be sorted out with the next one or two data points. I don't think we are out of the woods yet. There are just too many crosscurrents."
Analysts who follow Internet stocks have been saying for some time that the sector was particularly vulnerable. Still, yesterday's downdraft was particularly drastic.
Concern about slowing subscription rates led to big declines in America Online. At the close, the stock was down 9, to 90 1/2. Ebay continued to suffer from a computer system failure last week, falling 29 7/8, or 18 percent, to 136. And Schwab was punished after it reported that its daily on-line trading volume fell 28 percent in May, compared with April activity. The stock closed at 83 15/16 a share, down 10 5/16.
"Given the price-earnings ratios for companies like America Online and Schwab, there is not much room for error," said Michael Molnar, a managing director in retail sales and trading at Salomon Smith Barney. "These were material, fundamental events."
Weakness in these issues also helped to drag down other Internet shares. Cisco Systems, a component of the S.& P. 500, fell 2 7/8 a share, to 107 13/16. Amazon.com shed 13 13/16, to 92. And Yahoo lost 16, to 119 1/4.
For the Dow, DuPont gained 2 7/8, to 70 3/16. General Electric closed at 103 3/4, up 2 13/32. And Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing gained 3 5/16, to 89 1/4.
Elsewhere, drug and medical service company shares slumped.
Becton Dickinson, the nation's largest manufacturer of medical syringes, declined 8 3/4, to 30 5/16, after notifying Wall Street that earnings for the third quarter and the full year would fall short of expectations because of slower sales in Europe.
Pfizer continued to drop, falling 2 3/8, to 95 1/8. And Warner-Lambert slipped 1/2, to 62 1/4.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Rise
 By The Associated Press
 Bond prices rose yesterday, recovering from a plunge on Friday with some help from a rise in the dollar.
The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose 25/32, to 88 15/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.09 percent, from 6.16 percent on Friday.
Interest rates on short-term Treasury securities rose in yesterday's auction to the highest level in nearly 10 months. The Treasury Department sold $7.5 billion in three-month bills at a discount rate of 4.62 percent, up from 4.51 percent last week. An added $7.51 billion was sold in six-month bills at a rate of 4.855 percent, up from 4.76 percent.
Following are the results of the Treasury's auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.


Both issues are dated June 17, 1999. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 16, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on Dec. 16, 1999.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate at weekly auction, since February. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 
Another graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%); AOL (NYSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); MMM (SWX) (54%); MMM (NYSE) (54%); MMM (FRA) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (54%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (54%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (69%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); AOL INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); 3M CO (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (94%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N CHARLES R SCHWAB (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



308 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: HOMECOMING;
Serbian Returnees Revel in Just Being Alive

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL 

DATELINE: INIS, Serbia, June 14

 BODY:
Yugoslav soldiers leaned out of a civilian bus, waving and whooping noisily, as it swept down the main street bringing them back to this Serbian town today. People out strolling in the warm evening on the main square looked up and waved back.
This town, home to the Third Army, which has done the bulk of the fighting in Kosovo over the last year, has been welcoming its troops home for several days now. Soldiers in camouflage fatigues are everywhere, downing beers in the outdoor cafes and strolling around town, overwhelmingly relieved to be back. 
 After dark tonight the streets resounded with car horns blaring and people whistling and shouting. "I am very happy it's over," said one bearded reservist walking along the street. "I got back yesterday and now I've been told I can go home. It was difficult, but we survived."
Relief is still the main feeling. Both soldiers and civilians are just grateful the bombing has stopped, said Zoran Zivkovic, Mayor of Nis and an opposition party leader.
"But it will be a matter of minutes and hours for most people to remember all the problems they had before the war and which have been multiplied by the war," he said in an interview in his office. "Problems of basic living needs, economic survival and how to support their families."
President Slobodan Milosevic, apparently in an effort to scotch brewing public dissatisfaction, made a rare appearance today, his first since the start of the NATO bombing. He went to the northern city of Novi Sad to inaugurate the reconstruction of one of its destroyed bridges.
In a speech by the ruined bridge, he urged people to rally to the task of rebuilding Serbia.
"The hardest 11 weeks since World War II are behind us," he said. "Now that we have peace again, new tasks await us. These are to rebuild our country."
"I wish our country and our people a fast recovery," he added, vowing to rebuild the bridge in 40 days.
In Nis, Mr. Zivkovic was dismissive of Mr Milosevic's speech. The President has finally decided to emerge from his bunker, he said. The bridge is only one of 39 that will have to be rebuilt, he added, and the country has no money. He estimated that in Nis alone, it would cost $100 million to $200 million to rebuild.
The President has until the end of the summer, while the weather is good, to sort out the country's most pressing problems, Mr. Zivkovic said. And he will not be able to do that without foreign aid and investment, Mr. Zivkovic asserted, adding that he hoped other nations would not isolate Serbia further and create "another Cuba."
The country experienced great tension and trauma during the bombing, he said, and like the survivor of a car accident, is now living in the euphoria of just being alive.
"You have a high chance of being killed and you survive," Mr. Zivkovic said. "After that, for a time, you feel lucky. But that feeling dissipates and you start to realize that you have worse problems than before."
The people of Nis, who had been among the most fervent supporters of democratic change and Western policies, have buried 34 civilians, he said -- casualties of NATO. Among them were 11 killed when cluster bombs hit a market on May 7.
Certainly for the moment, the soldiers in Nis are still feeling lucky.
"We are happy we survived, that we are alive," said a 20-year-old conscript who would give his name only as Nikola, sitting in a cafe with two fellow soldiers. They arrived back from Kosovo three days ago from their antiaircraft unit and have spent much of the last two months hunkered down in trenches in the woods in western Kosovo, he said.
"It is good to see civilization after three months," said another soldier, Dragos, also 20, taking a long pull on his beer. The two said they were counting the days until their year of military service was up. "We are in double digits now," said Dragos, meaning fewer than 100 days.
The first thing they did was to call their families and girlfriends, they said. "They were happy," Dragos said. "They had not heard from us for three months, they didn't know if we were alive or not." Afterward the soldiers hit the town.
"We did not want this," said Nikola, gesturing to encompass the war, the NATO bombing and the whole issue of Kosovo. "We enjoy sitting in cafes and chatting. But it was the bad policy of our side -- they failed to solve it in a peaceful way. So NATO bombed us."
Dragos said that as a child, he had wanted to be a soldier, "but now, no way." Nikola, who said he had trained to be a mechanic, insisted that he would never choose a military career, despite the army's attempts to persuade conscripts to become professional soldiers.
The two were initially reticent when asked if friends had been killed in Kosovo. Fighting their emotions, they revealed that they had lost several,, both in the NATO strikes and in Kosovo Liberation Army attacks.
They changed their tone then, saying they were proud to have defended their country against the most powerful alliance in the world. And thinking about their friends who had died, they said it had been worth fighting to keep Kosovo part of Serbia.
As conscripts, they saw the streams of Albanians being expelled, but said they had played no part in the purging. As to fighting the rebels, they said that although they had not taken part in any offensive, their positions had often been attacked.
Yet they seemed to doubt whether the peace deal struck last week was better than that offered in March, before the bombing began.
"I am happy it has ended," Dragos said, "but it could have ended this way three months ago."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In his first public appearance since the start of the bombing, President Slobodan Milosevic greeted Serbs near a ruined Danube bridge. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; NIS (SERBIA); KOSOVO (SERBIA); NOVI SAD (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); WORLD WAR II (73%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); POLITICS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: GALL, CARLOTTA; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



309 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1810 words

HEADLINE: The Unbuttoning of Al Gore: Act 1

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: CONCORD, N.H.

 BODY:
Al Gore is walking up the path to a home here where 40 people have gathered to listen to his pitch. He has shed his blue suit (as per President Clinton's instructions) for a green polo shirt, khakis and cowboy boots. Spotting his host, who is wearing a tie and sports jacket, Mr. Gore calls out, "I hope I'm not too informal!"
That may be wishful thinking. Even in his casual, earth-tone clothes, Al Gore seems pressed and starched. His language has that same formal quality. "I want to engage in a dialogue with you," he begins, then jumps straight to what he alerts his audience is "my punch line: I want to be President and I need your support." 
 As he sets the stage for the official announcement of his candidacy on Wednesday in Tennessee, Vice President Gore still seems to be painting by numbers, following the chalk while he is learning to dance, telling his audience as much as reminding himself exactly what he is doing and why.
For all of his years of practice for the 2000 election -- he was groomed in a political family in Washington, has already run for President once and has understudied with a political master for the last seven years -- Mr. Gore seems oddly unprepared for it.
To be sure, Mr. Gore probably has a more extensive record on issues than anyone else running for President. From his votes in 16 years in Congress, his authorship of a book on global warming and more than six years as Mr. Clinton's Vice President, Mr. Gore has had to take specific stands on hundreds of topics -- abortion rights, ethanol subsidies, trade with China (he favors them all) -- in a way that few other candidates have.
Still, voters do not know who Mr. Gore is and what he is about -- his pollster Mark Penn calls him "famous but unknown."
His campaign hopes to change that on Wednesday.
The Gore camp views the announcement speech as an opportunity for Mr. Gore to emerge from Mr. Clinton's shadow and begin to define himself. The speech also gives him the chance to try to close the book on a period in which most of the information seeping out about Mr. Gore has been negative: his exaggerated claims about creating the Internet, his questionable money-gathering at a Buddhist temple, his steadfastness toward Mr. Clinton during the impeachment proceedings.
Perhaps most important, it gives him a chance to present himself in human terms -- he will talk a lot about himself and his family -- and to try to overcome the perception that he is a wooden technocrat, or, in the word that most people said in a Pew poll was the one that immediately came to mind when asked about Mr. Gore, "boring."
"With our announcement, we are now in the next phase of our campaign," Tony Coelho, the former California Congressman now in the saddle at Gore headquarters, said in an interview. "The Vice President will be dealing directly with the American people on specific issues."
It is highly unusual for a Presidential candidate to get as specific as Mr. Gore intends to this early in a campaign. But Gore aides believe this will help the Vice President separate himself from Mr. Clinton and show up the weaknesses in the two rivals he is most worried about, former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey on the Democratic side and Gov. George W. Bush of Texas among the Republicans.
While he has adhered to President Clinton's policies, Mr. Gore is starting to put his own stamp on certain issues. He has given a speech on education and called for universal preschool. He wants to increase the Federal Government's reliance on religious institutions to help with social programs, like drug treatment. He wants to revive the fight for health-care coverage for people without insurance. He wants to limit suburban sprawl and traffic jams as part of what he calls his "livability agenda." And he will be giving policy speeches regularly from here on out.
"The most important thing," Mr. Coelho said, "is for Al Gore to say who he is before the Republicans say who he is and before Bradley says who he is, and to have the American people relate to him."
The strategy is also intended to smoke out Mr. Bush, whose inaugural speeches this week have been broadly thematic. By being specific on issues like gun control and abortion, the theory goes, Mr. Gore will force Mr. Bush to take positions that might reveal him to be more conservative than swing voters are willing to tolerate. If Mr. Bush avoids being specific, the Gore camp says, he will appear inexperienced and unprepared to lead the country.
Specificity also helps Mr. Gore distinguish himself from President Clinton, which is a tricky task. He wants to bask in Mr. Clinton's successes but distance himself from the President's failures.
The glaring Clinton success is the economy. Mr. Gore is running as the man who can continue the prosperity of the Clinton years. "We know what works," he assures audiences.
The glaring Clinton failure is the character issue, including the extramarital activities that led to his impeachment. Pollsters say that "Clinton fatigue," a weariness with the scandals, has been sapping energy from the Gore candidacy.
To counteract that, Gore advisers said the Vice President would emphasize his family-man credentials -- married 29 years, father of four, expectant grandfather. To reinforce the message, Mr. Coelho said, Mr. Gore is to appear on the ABC News program "20/20" on Wednesday, the day of his announcement speech, and make it clear that he disapproved of Mr. Clinton's personal behavior.
Mr. Gore was once hesitant to criticize his boss in public. Forced by reporters to confront the issue of the President's behavior in September, Mr. Gore would use only Mr. Clinton's own words, "I agree with him that it's indefensible."
Mr. Gore is perhaps best remembered for declaring Mr. Clinton a great President on the December day that the House voted to impeach him. The Gore campaign would like to erase that image and make it clear that Mr. Gore condemns the behavior that led to it.
Marla Romash, the deputy campaign manager, said that most people do not know much about Mr. Gore and that at the top of her list of qualities was this: "He's a loving father."
Mr. Gore is mentioning his wife, Tipper, at every turn. This helps him solidify the family image, puts some personality on his blank slate and is intended to help him connect with women. As Mr. Gore told his audience here, he had to cancel their anniversary dinner last month because he needed to break a tie vote in the Senate on a gun-control measure -- which, he added, was fine with his wife. "She is, if anything, more anti-gun than I am," he said.
In its increasingly extensive use of Mrs. Gore, the campaign is also presenting her, subliminally, as the anti-Hillary. She has said she would not be the same kind of First Lady as Hillary Rodham Clinton. She has acknowledged a bout of depression, giving her an air of vulnerability and casting the Gore family as close-knit and caring. The Gores have let it be known that in the impeachment ordeal, while Mr. Gore was backing the President, Mrs. Gore was unforgiving.
Mr. Clinton may be a drag on the character issue, but oddly, his widely acknowledged political skills have also taken a toll on his Vice President. The concern goes beyond Vice Presidentialitis, an infectious disease usually caught by standing in the draft of a Commander in Chief. Most people appear clumsy next to Mr. Clinton, and Mr. Gore is no exception. A recent joint engagement in Texas proved such a disaster for Mr. Gore that the campaign is now on high alert to keep him and his mentor from sharing a stage.
Mr. Gore's advisers say that his difficulty in establishing a persona has been aggravated by his running in a vacuum, against himself rather than an identifiable opponent with vulnerabilities to be exploited.
"Not only has Gore been running in a vacuum, but you have the reflection of Bill Clinton," one Gore adviser lamented. "We're being compared to the absolute best."
Doug Sosnick, a senior adviser to Mr. Clinton, put it a little differently. "Gore has been running so far against two perfect people -- Clinton, whose skills as a candidate are taking on mythic proportions, and Greta Garbo," he said, referring to Governor Bush's ability to appeal to voters without saying much.
The campaign has been reluctant so far to acknowledge Mr. Bradley, Mr. Gore's only rival for the Democratic nomination. But this is proving harder as Mr. Gore finds he still needs to court certain audiences, including union workers and Iowa Democrats, who are pleased to have an alternative.
"They're struggling with whether to engage Bradley," said Bill Carrick, a Democratic consultant based in Los Angeles. "Do you raise his stature, or ignore him and hope he doesn't get traction? That causes some indecisiveness."
Gore aides take solace in his strong showing in early polls testing him against Mr. Bradley. But the picture turns darker when Mr. Gore is matched against Mr. Bush. Voters know little about Mr. Bush, but he leads Mr. Gore in public opinion polls. A recent Newsweek survey found that Mr. Bush was favored by 54 percent of voters, compared with 36 percent for Mr. Gore.
By large margins, voters say Mr. Bush is more of a leader than Mr. Gore, more inspiring, has a better moral character and is more able to get things done. The Governor polls ahead of the Vice President across every category of voter, most alarmingly among the elderly and women, two bedrock Democratic constituencies without whom the Democrats cannot win.
Some Democrats worry that Mr. Bush's talk of "compassionate conservativism" will blur the ideological lines and magnify Mr. Gore's weaknesses.
"The biggest problem facing Al Gore is the fact that people see him as a politician, through and through," one Democratic consultant said. "It's not that he's not smart or doesn't understand where America is at," the consultant said.
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said he had told Mr. Gore he was putting too much emphasis on things like endorsements from elected officials. "People see him as more of a politician than he really is," Mr. Schumer said. "But he's a substantive, policy-oriented guy, and I think that's going to come through." Mr. Coelho also dismisses the personality factor, saying the public is not looking for "a drinking buddy" but someone with experience. Still, he said he was considering enlisting Michael Sheehan, a debate coach for numerous Democratic politicians, including Mr. Clinton. "I'm trying to bring Michael back in," Mr. Coelho said. "He's good at identifying certain situations. But I want Al Gore to be Al Gore. If you start to let the computer in your head dictate what you should do, then you lose your heart."
It is Al Gore's heart, his campaign says, that will be on display this week.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vice President Al Gore left his blue suit behind when he campaigned before a group of women in Concord, N.H. Mr. Gore will make his run for the Presidency official tomorrow in a speech in Tennessee, his home state. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (91%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (91%); 

CITY: CONCORD, NH, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); TENNESSEE, USA (91%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (91%); CONCORD, NH, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); IMPEACHMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); ABORTION (50%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); ALCOHOLS (50%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (50%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q AL GORE (94%); BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



310 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Wal-Mart Agrees to Buy British Supermarket Chain
In its first foray into Britain, Wal-Mart Stores agreed to pay $10.8 billion in cash for Asda Group, Britain's third-largest supermarket chain, thwarting a rival suitor at the last moment and threatening other British retailers with a potentially devastating price war.
The takeover agreement is part of Wal-Mart's aggressive buying spree in Europe, where tight zoning regulations make it almost impossible to build big, new stores, leaving entrants into the businesses of supermarkets and large convenience stores no option but to acquire existing chains. Page C4. 

Greenspan Sounds Note of Caution
In Congressional testimony, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, warned that increases in business efficiency could not counterbalance the strains on the economy forever. But he did not directly address the prospect of an increase in short-term interest rates later this month. C2.
 
Stocks Mixed as Nasdaq Tumbles
Stock prices were mixed and activity remained subdued as traders and investors delayed putting money to work before an important inflation report scheduled for release tomorrow. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 72.82 points, or seven-tenths of a percent, to 10,563.33. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was flat, rising 0.36 point, to 1,294.00. But the Nasdaq composite index, fell 49.57 points, or 2.03 percent, to 2,398.31. Internet stocks like Ebay and Yahoo declined. C14.
 
Energy East to Acquire CMP Group
Energy East, the parent company of New York State Electric and Gas, will acquire the CMP Group, the parent of Central Maine Power, in a $957 million deal. C6.
 
Oxford Health Rebuffed in Court
A Federal judge rejected a motion by Oxford Health Plans for dismissal of a shareholder suit against it, making an out-of-court settlement more likely. C11.
 
U.S. Bows Out of Internet Venture
The Commerce Department has pulled out of a partnership with a private company, Northern Light Technology, to facilitate finding Government information on the Internet. C2.
 
Natural-Food Giant Switches Focus
Over the last two years, Irwin D. Simon, the chief executive of the Hain Food Group, has spent millions of dollars assembling an empire of natural-food products. The company, which now has 27 brands and more than 1,000 products, has been successful in getting its products on the shelves of supermarket chains. Now it is switching its advertising focus from retailers to consumers. Advertising. C12.
 
Boeing Promotes a Smaller Plane
Boeing's centerpiece at the Paris Air Show is not one of its wide-body jets but the newest and smallest member of its fleet, a twin-engine, 100-seat passenger jet called the 717. C6.
 
Britain to Seek Rebuilding Deals
British Government officials plan to meet with business leaders in London to devise a strategy for securing reconstruction contracts in Kosovo, moving to offset a widespread view that British companies lost out in the race to rebuild Kuwait after the Persian Gulf war eight years earlier. C4.
 
Nortel President Plans to Resign
David L. House, president of Nortel Networks of Canada, the communications equipment giant, will resign as soon as this summer, the company said. C27.
 
Microsoft Calls Hostile Witness
Seeking to prove that America Online had deceived the judge in the Government's antitrust trial against Microsoft about its plans to compete with the software giant, Microsoft put its most important rebuttal witness on the stand, David M. Colburn, a senior executive from the on-line service. But several people dozed through the questioning, and Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson told Microsoft's lawyer, John Warden, to hurry up and finish. C11.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,563.33, up 72.82
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.09%, down 0.07
The Dollar -- 120.62 yen, up 2.54
 
Graph tracks share price of Ebay, since last Monday

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (87%); HAIN (NASDAQ) (52%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (87%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (87%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (66%); NAICS311942 SPICE & EXTRACT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2087 FLAVORING EXTRACTS & FLAVORING SYRUPS, NEC (52%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: ASDA GROUP PLC (91%); WAL-MART STORES INC (87%); NEW YORK STATE ELECTRIC & GAS CORP (66%); HAIN CELESTIAL GROUP INC (52%); BOEING CO (51%); ACQUIRE CMP GROUP (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: ACQUIRE CMP GROUP (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); CONVENIENCE STORES (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); ZONING (71%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (71%); TESTIMONY (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (64%); LITIGATION (63%); JUDGES (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%); INTEREST RATES (53%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



311 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS BUSINESS;
At Cablevision, a Game Is Always On

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir 

 BODY:
During the Knicks' celebration Friday night after winning the Eastern Conference finals, a beaming man named Marc Lustgarten bear-hugged ecstatic players. Lustgarten was not a mere suit leaping from a prime courtside seat, but the chairman of Madison Square Garden and vice chairman of Cablevision Systems, the ubiquitous company that is the Garden's principal owner.
Lustgarten's joyful reaction is an apt symbol for Cablevision's encompassing embrace of local sports for business's sake. The Long Island company -- and the Dolan family behind it -- appears omnipresent. At nearly every sports corner stands Cablevision, which once preferred the prosaic life of cable systems to the spotlight of team ownership. It owns 45 percent of the Garden, which includes the arena, the Knicks, Rangers and the MSG Network. 
 MSG carries all Knicks, Rangers and Yankees cable telecasts, and its Fox Sports New York corporate sibling controls the Mets, Nets, Devils and Islanders games. MSG also bought then resold the Yankees and Mets' local broadcast rights to Channel 5 and Channel 11.
These relationships place Cablevision in the position of doing business with sports-field enemies, an increasingly common situation when news-media companies own teams and television outlets. The FSNY deal is fundamental to the economic survival of the Islanders, a troubled franchise; for the foreseesable future the contract (which will pay $14.8 million next season and rise to $36 million in 2030) is the team's chief source of revenue until a new arena is built. The league's biggest cable deal is not enough to stop the ownership from trading its single star, Ziggy Palffy, to the Rangers.
One possible holdup to completing the rare trade between local rivals speaks to the power of Cablevision. The Islanders may seek better treatment from FSNY, which blacked out several of its games last season.
Cablevision is also doing non-hockey business with the Devils' owner, John McMullen, who has scorned the Garden's profligate payment of Ranger salaries. Last month, McMullen announced a joint venture with Cablevision to build an arena in Hoboken, N.J. If it is built, it would extend Cablevision's sports influence to the other side of the Hudson.
"I'm still critical of them," said McMullen, who excoriated the $2.5 million the Rangers have proposed as part of the Palffy trade as "an outrage." "They should be forced to put up another player."
But he said his rash view of the Rangers' riches is unconnected to his arena deal. "They're my archenemy, but I'm not compromising anything," he said. "My sole purpose is to get more money to support the team. This is a deal with a company that knows how to run an arena."
Cablevision's consuming interest in protecting its powerful dominion of cable sports rights led to its unsuccessful attempt to buy the Yankees and a still possible purchase of the Mets. Buying the teams would mean owning their television rights in perpetuity, and in Cablevision's world, teams are programming content, and content is a wellspring of ratings, advertising and sponsorships.
It has significant non-sports forays, too: buying the Nobody Beats the Wiz electronics chain of 40 stores; acquiring 63 movie theaters, purchasing the lease to Radio City Music Hall, producing "The Scarlet Pimpernel" on Broadway.
The strategy is more about the glory of programming than the glory of sport. Every move supports the coming digital overhaul of Cablevision's metropolitan cable systems, which will be the launching pad for its telephone, video-on-demand, E-commerce and Internet services, and channels to let viewers choose camera angles during games (and presumably other channels devoted to single teams or crucial games on pay-per-view). The Wiz sells high-definition televisions, modems and phone service plus tickets to the Garden and Radio City.
Even as they dominate the country's largest news-media market, the Dolans are little known publicly. The executive face most associated with the Garden belongs to Dave Checketts, the president, not to a Dolan.
Charles Dolan, Cablevision's chairman, is a reserved but ferocious corporate builder who attends Garden events occasionally. James Dolan, the Cablevision president, is a more rabid fan who attends almost all Knick and Ranger games. But the Dolans are as anonymous as George Steinbrenner, the Yankees' turtlenecked principal owner, is familiar.
Charles Dolan's personal fascination with football led to his failed attempt last year to acquire the Cleveland Browns with his brother. He then bid unsuccessfully with McMullen for the Washington Redskins.
"John took the lead on the Redskins," James Dolan said.
The elder Dolan, 72, would expand his realm further with the Jets, and may do it again with McMullen in front. But their decision will await the issuance of an offering document by Goldman, Sachs.
"My dad didn't ask me about buying a football team," James Dolan said. "If he'd asked, I'd have said, 'Is it a good investment?' "
He said his father's potential Jets purchase would be a personal one that would fit Cablevision's strategy "minimally." Giants Stadium could be an outpost to market Cablevision's toys and services for the digital world -- which is Cablevision's reason for everything.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Dolan the reserved chairman of Cablevision. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP; NEW YORK KNICKERBOCKERS; NEW YORK RANGERS; MSG NETWORK FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%); NEW YORK RANGERS (91%); NEW YORK RANGERS (91%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); NEW YORK METS (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (83%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (56%); NEW JERSEY NETS (56%); NEW JERSEY NETS (56%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP; NEW YORK KNICKERBOCKERS; NEW YORK RANGERS; MSG NETWORK NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%); NEW YORK RANGERS (91%); NEW YORK RANGERS (91%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); NEW YORK METS (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (83%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (56%); NEW JERSEY NETS (56%); NEW JERSEY NETS (56%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; MADISON SQUARE GARDEN SPORTS (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (76%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (74%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD; DOLAN, CHARLES F CHARLES DOLAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



312 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Debtor Countries Must Pay Up

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Francis Fukuyama (Op-Ed, June 9) argues that the introduction of the birth control pill in Japan will disrupt the country's social stability. However, even before the arrival of the pill, a decadelong recession had been doing the job quite well. 
 Instead, the pill will help Japanese women and their families cope with the already half-broken promise of lifetime employment and the traditional sexual division of labor.
Few women in Japan today feel secure enough to rely solely on a husband's income. Many women with school-age children have gone back to work, where they face blatant age and sex discrimination. The younger generation of women who came of age under the economic crises are well aware of the plight of our mothers' generation.
The introduction of the pill in itself will not change Japanese family values, but it will help women to function better in a rapidly changing labor market.
 
MITSUE SUZUKI
Rye, N.Y., June 10, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Henning Wagenbreth)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (67%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: BIRTH CONTROL AND FAMILY PLANNING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CONTRACEPTION (90%); CHILDREN (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); WOMEN (88%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (87%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (87%); DEBTOR NATIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); DISCRIMINATION (70%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (68%); TRENDS (65%); 

PERSON: FUKUYAMA, FRANCIS; SUZUKI, MITSUE FRANCIS FUKUYAMA (60%); OP-ED JUNE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



313 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-19
 
Kosovo Rebels Take Over Sites Vacated by Serbs
The Kosovo Liberation Army is emerging to stake its claim to power as Serbian troops withdraw under NATO tanks and guns. The guerrillas pose a delicate problem for NATO, particularly because of the growing political support they command from Albanians. A1
 
NATO slowly expanded its control over a central swath of Kosovo, pouring thousands more soldiers into major towns and villages but effectively ceding the airport in the capital to about 200 Russian soldiers. President Clinton and other senior American leaders spoke with their counterparts in Russia but were unable to resolve the impasse. A15
 
A British financier, acting with the knowledge of Germany and Finland, held secret talks with President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia that appear to have helped him reconcile himself to the peace agreement, German and Swedish officials said. A15
 
Korean Naval Battle
South Korean naval forces sank a North Korean torpedo boat today in an exchange of gunfire during a nine-day confrontation in the Yellow Sea. South Korea then put armed forces on combat-level alert. A1
 
Charging Spy Suspect Unlikely
Federal authorities say it is unlikely that Wen Ho Lee, the scientist at the center of the suspected theft of nuclear secrets by China, will ever face criminal charges of espionage. A1
 
Administration initiatives to improve security at nuclear weapons laboratories are not being carried out because of bureaucratic arrogance and foot-dragging, a Presidential review panel said. A12
 
China Meets With Sect
A senior Chinese Government official met representatives of the Buddhist Law spiritual sect to deny rumors of an imminent crackdown, but the official also sternly warned them against upsetting social stability, state television reported. A13
 
The Successor to Mandela
South Africa's second post-apartheid Parliament was sworn in and chose Thabo Mbeki as the successor to President Nelson Mandela. With Mr. Mandela watching, Mr. Mbeki delivered his acceptance speech; he is to be inaugurated tomorrow. A3
 
Blair Affirms Platform
Prime Minister Tony Blair said his Government would stick to its pro-European stance despite its seeming rejection by British voters electing the country's 87 members of the European Parliament. A5
 
Belgian Premier Resigns
Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene resigned after voters swept away his center-left coalition Government in elections on Sunday. The Government had been heavily criticized for its handling of a dioxin scare that cleared poultry, beef, eggs and butter from stores. A8
 
NATIONAL A20-24
 
Court Voids Broadcast Ban On Casino Gambling Ads
The Supreme Court unanimously struck down a 65-year-old ban on broadcast advertising of casino gambling, ruling on First Amendment grounds that the Federal law "sacrifices an intolerable amount of truthful speech about lawful conduct." The Court focused on the irrationality of making distinctions among advertisers: gambling at Indian-owned casinos could be advertised, but not at Atlantic City casinos. The Court suggested that a more uniform and "coherent" policy of advertising restrictions might be upheld. That left the door open for the Court to uphold restrictions on the advertising of other lawful products, like tobacco. A1
 
The Court agreed to decide if public schools can provide computers and other "instructional equipment" for use in religious schools. A22
 
Gun Issues Spilt From Crime Bill
House Republican leaders separated gun-control proposals from broader juvenile-crime legislation and put the gun measures in their own, distinct bill. Republicans said they were trying to make sure that new restrictions on firearms had a fair chance of passing the House. Democrats said it was really a tactic to try to insure the failure of gun control. A24
 
New Tack on Clean-Air Rules
The E.P.A., stymied by two court rulings setting aside clean-air standards, said it had a new way to force power plants in 12 states to cut pollutants that contribute to smog in the Northeast. The approach relies on petitions brought by four states saying that no matter what they did within their borders they could not meet older smog standards, because too much pollution blew in from other states. The utility and coal industries, which won the last round in court, said they would file legal challenges to the new E.P.A. tactic. A24
 
Cloning Effort Denied
The Geron Corporation, which has sponsored the leading research on primordial human cells, said it was conducting research on discarded human embryos in the hope of learning how to convert the ordinary cells of a patient into stem cells, which can be used for self-repair. The company denied a published report that it was trying to create cloned human embryos and said it had no intention of doing so. A21
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-16
 
Jury Orders City to Pay $76 Million to Injured Child
A Manhattan jury has ordered the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation to pay $76.4 million to a 12-year-old girl who sustained brain damage during her birth at Harlem Hospital Center. A defense lawyer said the city would seek to have the verdict set aside as "grossly excessive." B1
 
Opposition to Abortion Bill
NOW and abortion rights groups gathered at the New Jersey State House for their first demonstration against a measure that would require teen-age girls to notify their parents before getting an abortion. The groups said they had been caught off guard by Governor Whitman's support of the bill. The Assembly passed it last week, and yesterday a Senate panel approved it, 5 to 2. B5
 
Dispute Over Lead Paint Bill
A City Council rift widened over a bill that would clarify and strengthen a law to protect children from poisoning caused by lead paint. B5
 
Tracking the M15 From Space
New York City Transit said it would begin using satellites to track buses on six Manhattan routes this fall. It also confirmed delays in the overhaul of some subway stations. B5
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-14
 
Timing and Pregnancy
Researchers said fertilized eggs need to implant themselves in the uterus 8 to 10 days after ovulation, and that the later an egg implanted itself, the greater the chance that a pregnancy would fail. F10
 
Health & Fitness F7
 
OBITUARIES B14
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Surgery for Astros Manager
Larry Dierker, 52, will undergo brain surgery today to remove a mass of malformed blood vessels that caused a seizure in the Houston dugout. D2
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-28
 
Worm Finds New Ways to Turn
Computer researchers said a computer attack program that surfaced last week was spreading in a previously undisclosed way, through local corporate networks, generating new reports of sizable data losses by companies and individuals. C1
 
Nasdaq Looks to Japan
The National Association of Securities Dealers is expected to announce today that it will form an electronic trading system similar to its Nasdaq market to trade Japanese stocks. C1
 
Some Caution on Technology
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, cautioned against counting on technology as a miracle cure for inflation or a rationale for ever-higher stock prices. He did not address the growing consensus that the central bank would soon raise interest rates. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
FASHION B15
 
ARTS E1-10
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: The next Starr report; back to basics with China; gangs, gambling and the Supreme Court; graduating into prosperity.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Anthony Lewis.
 
Crossword E9
 
TV Listings E10
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather D5
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ALBANIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); SWEDEN (79%); BELGIUM (78%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (55%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ALBANIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FINLAND (79%); SWEDEN (79%); BELGIUM (78%); PACIFIC OCEAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CASINOS (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (86%); GAMING (83%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NAVIES (78%); FIREARMS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (74%); ESPIONAGE (74%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (64%); RELIGION (64%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (63%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); RESIGNATIONS (60%); POULTRY (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); THABO MBEKI (56%); TONY BLAIR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



314 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE CONTINENT;
Europe's Aim: Arms Parity

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BERLIN, June 14

 BODY:
The Kosovo war has brought radical changes to the European continent, thrusting Germany into a leading military role not seen since 1945, galvanizing attempts to forge a common European defense policy and altering Europe's relationship with the United States.
Of course, with Russian stability still deeply uncertain, and the abrupt movements of Russian troops in Kosovo suggesting that Moscow's military may be restive, Europeans remain wary of any "decoupling" from Washington. But the desire to maintain trans-Atlantic ties is now accompanied by a push to balance them in a new way. 
 Gerhard Schroder, now often called the Kriegskanzler, or War Chancellor, has found himself steering a coalition made up largely of former pacifists toward involvement in a war that has ended with the planned deployment of 8,000 German troops in Kosovo, the largest contingent after Britain.
"Germany has become a normal country in military terms, and that is a critical change for Europe," said Jonathan Eyal, a British defense analyst. "The change is timely because the war has shown how much Europe needs to do to catch up with the United States in defense terms."
Until the Kosovo war began, the European Union remained obsessed with the creation of a common currency, the euro. Efforts to develop shared European defense and security policies were largely stalled.
But an 11-week NATO bombardment of Kosovo that was dominated by the United States appears to have changed things. Europe's need for new military technologies like laser-guided bombs was clear, as were its dependence on the United States for strategic reconnaissance and its lack of aircraft.
As a result, a debate that had been confined to a few foreign policy and military experts about Europe's growing dependence on the United States and its failure to keep up with new technologies has become a subject of wide public discussion. The decisions Europeans will make are not yet clear, but they know they have to make some.
"Kosovo has been a watershed in so many ways," said Karl Kaiser, a German foreign policy expert. "For Germany, it has represented a coming of age. For Europe, it has brought a crushing realization of the asymmetry of military power between it and the United States, and the need to do something about that."
Already, Europeans have shown that they intend to be in the fore of the Kosovo deployment. Troops from the four major European Union countries -- Britain, France, Germany and Italy -- will total about 33,000, outnumbering the planned American unit of 7,000 troops by almost 5 to 1.
The British commitment of 13,000 troops reflects Prime Minister Tony Blair's determination to give his countrya leading role in the development of European defense. This makes him critically different from former leaders, who saw such a policy as a betrayal of the Atlantic alliance.
The Germans have clearly moved from a peripheral role in Bosnia -- where far fewer troops were deployed, and those only after a heated national debate -- to a central one in Kosovo that was quickly approved last week by Parliament. The ghosts of Nazi horrors in the Balkans, so present at the time of the Bosnian discussions, have faded.
But on Sunday there was evidence of tensions surrounding the German deployment. A German military spokesman said German NATO troops in Prizren shot and killed two Serbs. In another episode about 25 miles south of Pristina, two German journalists from the weekly newsmagazine Stern were shot and killed by unidentified men.
The large European deployment reflects both the Pentagon's enduring hesitations about ground troops and Europe's emerging desire to prove itself after its failure in Bosnia and the American domination of the air campaign over Kosovo.
"Our vision of a multipolar world is being reinforced," Jacques Chirac, the French President, said of the Kosovo deployment, picking up an old French theme stressing the need to counter American "hegemony."
Europe can point to a real role in ending the Kosovo war: its envoy, President Martti Ahtisaari of Finland, brought home the peace agreement from Belgrade. At the same time, Europe at last merged its redundant defense body, the Western European Union, with the European Union itself and appointed the NATO Secretary General, Javier Solana, as its first high representative for foreign and defense policy.
But, as Mr. Eyal, the British defense analyst, remarked, "These changes, for the moment, are largely symbolic ones, and all the difficult decisions lie ahead for a continent still massively dependent on the United States for the military power that was decisive in Kosovo."
Those difficult decisions include increasing defense spending. The United States spends about 3.2 percent of its total output of goods and services on defense, compared with an average of about 2.1 percent in Europe.
Such increases are sure to meet strong domestic resistance in many European states, where important bodies of left-of-center opinion suspect NATO's reinvention of itself as an agent of humanism. They see it as merely a way to reinforce defense industries and spread American capitalism behind a mask of benevolent concern for human rights.
Constraints on European budget deficits imposed when the euro was created will also hamper increased defense spending.
"Kosovo has made it clear that a complete restructuring of European armed forces is needed," said Mr. Kaiser, the German analyst. "The notion that everyone does and repeats the same thing has become absurd. There has to be a new division of labor, new synergies, new European thinking, but politically it will not be easy."
Still, for perhaps the first time since the end of World War II, Europeans seem aware that they cannot eternally remain the security orphans of 1945 or depend overwhelmingly on the United States, which is deeply reluctant to deploy ground troops in conflicts.
Europeans have also realized, more fully even than over Bosnia, that conflict on the continent did not end with the cold war's conclusion, but merely shifted to the Balkans.
"There is no military exit strategy from the region," said Carl Bildt, the United Nations Kosovo mediator. "An international military presence to guarantee peace in the Balkans must be seen in the coming decades as something as natural as it was to have troops in divided Germany during the cold war years."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; EUROPE; GERMANY; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIA; EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); LASERS (73%); LASER WEAPONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); CURRENCIES (65%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER GERHARD SCHRODER (58%); TONY BLAIR (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



315 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: Big vs. Local in Harlem Supermarket Proposals

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
As boys, Mauricio and Matthew Fernandez were schooled in the grocery business by their father, Mateo, a hard-driving Dominican immigrant who began life in this country as a waiter and wound up operating seven medium-size supermarkets in Harlem. Three years ago, Mateo Fernandez was fatally injured while driving to work, and his sons took over the business he had built.
Now, the young entrepreneurs -- Mauricio is 26, Matthew, 30 -- say they are ready to move up to the next level and open the first full-size supermarket in central Harlem, on city-owned land near five of their stores. They have asked the city for the chance to build a supermarket on a long-vacant lot on 145th Street and Bradhurst Avenue amid a growing residential neighborhood. 
 For many years, the absence of full-size supermarkets in places like Harlem has forced residents to travel long distances to shop or to make do with a more limited selection and -- in many cases -- higher prices. But these days, such neighborhoods are considered a promising source of buying power, and the Fernandez brothers have found themselves competing for the Bradhurst site with the Pathmark Stores chain and four other bidders.
It is not often that a site large enough for a full-size supermarket becomes available, so the two most talked-about proposals could place city officials in a tough bind: should the city choose Pathmark, which has two decades of experience running inner-city supermarkets and has just opened a gleaming $15 million store in East Harlem? Or should it award the opportunity to local businessmen who have earned the respect of Chase Manhattan Bank, but have never operated anything larger than their flagship store, a 12,000-square-foot Pioneer market on 145th Street and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard? The 35,000-square-foot supermarket that they propose would be nearly three times that size.
Officials of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development are so closed-mouthed about the selection process that they will not even confirm the identities of the applicants for the site or discuss the decision-making criteria in any but the most general terms.
The other applicants include two community development corporations based in Harlem -- the Consortium for Central Harlem Development and Harlem Congregations for Community Development -- and White Rose, a food and dairy wholesaler.
Bidders were also asked to come up with plans for more than 100 units of affordable housing and other retail space. The city plans to make a decision sometime this summer, said Richard T. Roberts, the Commissioner of Housing Preservation and Development.
Supporters of Pathmark, which operates 133 supermarkets on the East Coast, including about two dozen in urban locations, say the chain is better equipped than its competitors to bring the community the type of store it sorely needs.
"Pathmark can provide services that don't exist there," said Paul Travis, the managing partner at Washington Square Partners, a company that is advising the Mattone Group, a developer involved in the proposal to build a 47,000-square-foot Pathmark store. "There is no store of that size with all the features of a modern supermarket."
A Pathmark on Bradhurst would spur further commercial development in the area, just as a Pathmark has on 125th Street, where a developer has proposed building a 10-screen multiplex, said Harvey Gutman, a senior vice president of the supermarket chain.
But some Harlem residents consider the Bradhurst area unsuitable for commercial development. Community Board 10, which represents the neighborhood, opposed the construction of a full-size supermarket, saying it would bring too much traffic to a residential neighborhood, said Stanley N. Gleaton, the chairman.
Harlan Levine, the division counsel for White Rose, said the store that his company proposed would be smaller than both the Pathmark and the Fernandezes' store, but would use the Internet to offer home delivery directly from the store.
Most Harlem residents have not taken a position on who should run the market, said Millicent E. Redick, a consultant to the Consortium for Central Harlem Development, one of the applicants.
Gregory O. Watson, the senior vice president of Harlem Congregations, said that under his proposal, the development team would find a market and negotiate the terms. "There's strong community sentiment for fresh vegetables, for variety in terms of food products -- all the things that Pathmark offers," Mr. Watson said. "If a smaller store can compete, I think the community would be very supportive."
The contest over Bradhurst echoes the battle over the Pathmark on 125th Street and Lexington Avenue, which opened in April. In 1995, the owners of several local independent markets, many of them also Dominican immigrants, nearly managed to block the Pathmark by arguing that a large store would have a devastating impact on their businesses. They accused the city of turning its back on business people who were willing to invest in Harlem when no one else would.
But Pathmark supporters said the new supermarket would force the independent grocers to do a better job. Even before the East Harlem market opened, there were signs that some of the independent grocers nearby were improving the appearances of their stores.
Like the market owners in the earlier conflict, the Fernandez brothers say they will suffer badly if Pathmark comes to the Bradhurst site. "If Pathmark wins," Mauricio Fernandez said during an interview in his office above the 145th Street store, "it will be a terrible blow to us." To drum up support for their application, they have called upon the same lobbyist, Richard Lipsky, who unleashed a storm of protest over the East Harlem Pathmark.
But, as Mr. Lipsky points out, some of the independent markets have made great strides in recent years. As evidence that the playing field is becoming more level, Chase, which played a major role in getting the 125th Street Pathmark built and also does business with the Fernandezes, is not taking sides on the Bradhurst project. "The city will decide who the winner is," said Ruth M. Salzman, a senior vice president at the bank, "and if it's a bankable transaction, we would like to be a part of it."
Ms. Salzman said that the success of the Fernandez brothers represents a generational shift in the grocery business. "The owners of today are more sophisticated business people, who also have aspirations to grow their businesses," she said. Compared with their predecessors, these entrepreneurs keep better records and use more formal accounting methods and more sophisticated management and information systems, she said.
Ronald Moelis, one of the developers from Larchmont, N.Y., who teamed up with the Fernandezes, described them as "very strong financially."
Some food service experts wonder if the Fernandez brothers are overreaching. Pamela J. Fairclough, the director of the supermarket project for the Community Food Resource Center Inc., an advocacy group for the poor, praised them for running cleaner stores and caring for them better than many other owners do. But she said that the smaller stores could not match what Pathmark offers. "All of these stores suffer from the way that they handle perishable stuff," she said.
The Fernandez brothers said that because they own several stores, they have already learned how to operate a large-scale business. Mr. Lipsky added that the stores they run total 75,000 square feet. Mauricio Fernandez said, "A lot of people stereotype the smaller stores, but it's not fair when it comes to us."
David Grotenstein, a consultant to the retail food industry who is not advising any of the applicants, said the Fernandezes should not prevail over Pathmark unless they can pinpoint how they would handle the various challenges that such a leap would entail. "The idea of going with a local merchant is very appealing," he said, but "the goal should be to serve the neighborhood. As the decision is made, that should be the major consideration."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mauricio and Matthew Fernandez, center and right, and their co-partner, Franklin Mejia, at their flagship store in Harlem. A supermarket they are proposing at another site would be almost three times as large. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PTMK (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PATHMARK STORES INC PATHMARK STORES INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PATHMARK STORES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: HARLEM (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; SUPERMARKETS GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (96%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); DAIRY PRODUCT WHOLESALERS (50%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; FERNANDEZ, MAURICIO; FERNANDEZ, MATTHEW MATTHEW FERNANDEZ (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



316 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: A Jail Waiting to Explode?;
In Suffolk, Warnings From Guards and Guarded

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, N.Y.

 BODY:
There are two ways to tell when dawn is coming if you are an inmate at the Suffolk County jail. First there are the lights -- they are turned up so the guards can serve breakfast. The other clue is the rattle of steel plates.
Breakfast is served precisely at 5:30 A.M. It is usually cold and it is never enough. On a morning early in June it was three undercooked sticks of French toast and tomato juice. The 44 men on the fifth tier declared a hunger strike. "I might be behind bars, but that don't make me no animal," said S Berry, a 23-year-old drug offender who violated his parole. 
 "This place is a hell-hole, and nobody on the outside knows it," said Kevin Duffy, 40, also a parole violator. "You got guys in here actually praying to go to prison, 'cause nothing's worse than the county jail."
Among penal centers with more than 650 inmates, the Suffolk County Correctional Facility has quietly become the most overcrowded in New York, according to the State Commission of Correction, the agency in charge of monitoring jails.
Built in 1969, the jail now holds nearly 1,800 men and women, or 144 percent of its capacity. In contrast, Rikers Island in New York City, with 17,500 prisoners, is at 80 percent of its capacity, and the Nassau County jail, with 1,600 inmates, is at 73 percent.
The Correction Commission notified Suffolk County last year that it would sue unless the county did something to ease the overcrowding. The county has responded by ordering a $150,000 study of the jail. Nassau County, on the other hand, began building more cells in the early 80's in response to a threat of a Federal lawsuit, and New York City began an expansion after a judge ordered the release in 1983 of nearly 600 detainees because of overcrowding.
Conditions at the Suffolk jail are deplorable, says Sheriff Patrick A. Mahoney, the county official in charge of the jail. "I keep saying if you want to lock all these people up, then you better make more bed space or we are going to have a very major crisis here."
The Correction Commission oversees 57 county jails, 70 state prisons, 14 New York City jails and all its precinct lockups, but is unable to monitor everything thoroughly, say lawyers, independent penal observers and clergy members. Without such oversight, they add, it cannot be known exactly how the Suffolk jail compares with others in the state.
The inmates call it the Plantation. The faces behind the bars are overwhelmingly black, while the men with the gold stars who watch over them are mostly white. The walls are stained, and paint falls from the ceilings in chunks. Some of the toilets do not flush.
In the five-story maximum security wing, each tier -- a row of 30 cells built for 30 men -- is overcrowded. Even the walkways outside the cells are now used for housing. Fourteen men sleep on steel cots in each one, increasing the heat, congestion and frustration in the already pulsing atmosphere.
County jails rarely attract the attention or oversight that state prisons do, in part because they hold such a transient population: those who are waiting for trial or bail, who have been sentenced to less than a year, or who have been convicted and are waiting to be transferred to state prison. Yet that very population -- in which violent criminals mingle with the mentally ill, the homeless and those held on relatively minor charges -- can make a county jail a volatile place.
"Most of us in here are by far no angels," said Austin Offen, who pleaded guilty to assault for beating a man outside a Westhampton Beach nightclub and has been waiting in the Suffolk jail since February for a slot in prison. "But if it continues like this, packing dudes on top of each other and bookending them," there could be a riot, he said.
Inmate attacks on officers at the Suffolk jail have nearly doubled, to 80, over the last year, jail officials say. Some inmates are still gang members, and disputes from the street are sometimes battled out in the jail's exercise yard and chapel. About 500 inmates receive psychiatric medication, and many arrive with some sort of drug dependency.
The jail has not made headlines like its counterpart in Nassau County, where four guards have been charged with violating the civil rights of an inmate who was fatally beaten in January.
But Sheriff Mahoney, who is calling for a new jail wing, has complained repeatedly about crowding, and about pressure to reduce expenses that he says he gets from the County Executive, Robert J. Gaffney. Peter A. Scully, a spokesman for Mr. Gaffney, said the County Executive would not comment on the sheriff or the jail.
The Sheriff, who is challenging Mr. Gaffney for county executive in the fall, gave a reporter full access to the jail on several visits within a week.
Inmates showed off washcloths stained orange with rust. Two men revealed rashes on their backs that they attributed to the drinking water. Forty-four men shower in a stall that is caked with mildew; officials say there is not enough money for cleaning supplies. On some floors there is no air-conditioning and the ventilation is poor. The cell block reeks of urine and stale sweat.
The men are locked in their area for 23 hours a day, regardless of whether they were convicted of murder or marijuana possession. A guard slides meals into each cell through a slot. Because the day areas are so crowded, many prisoners prefer to sit all day in their 8-by-10-foot cells, 14 bars wide by 11 bars high, saying they fear being stabbed with a sharpened toothbrush.
At 11 A.M. lunch is served. This day it is chop suey, and it is cold. An inmate on the fifth tier throws it against the wall.
"When the hell are they gonna send me downstate, so at least I'll be treated like a dog?" he bellows.
A man whose bed is in the walkway screams, "You got it all over my damn blankets!"
In the world outside, serious crime may be falling but judges are getting tougher on those still committing crimes, ordering longer sentences and creating a backlog of convicts waiting for a cell in already overcrowded state prisons, experts say. In the meantime, people are sent to the Suffolk jail, a village behind razor wire and cinderblock along the Peconic River.
The average daily population at the jail has increased nearly 40 percent in five years, but no new cells have been built. A few hundred bunk beds have been added, doubling up inmates in cells in the medium security area, in addition to the steel cots in the maximum security walkways.
Over the same period, the operating budget for the county jail has increased 24 percent. Officials say that inflation and the need for more jail workers means low-quality food, few cleaning supplies, worn bedding and peeling paint.
Robert Gangi, executive director of the Correctional Association of New York, an independent watchdog group, said that, judging by the numbers, the jail is swelling like a water balloon. "For all intents and purposes, no one is really monitoring the jails, so abuses and deficiencies are inevitable," he said.
The State Commissioner of Correction, Alan J. Croce, a former Suffolk County undersheriff, was not available for an interview, his assistant said. But last year, Mr. Croce said Suffolk County would have to expand its jail because overcrowding threatened the well-being of both prisoners and guards.
Correction officers, working in some situations where they are outnumbered 60 to 1, are concerned.
"They say the place is overcrowded, but it seems like there is always room for one more bed," said John Simchick, 54, a correction officer who has been on the job 20 years and points out that he has just 5 more before retirement. "The attitudes flare up, and it's your safety on the line, and you start wondering who's the one in prison."
In the late afternoon, the sun is burning. There is no shade, no place to hide in the exercise yard, where one small group at a time can spend an hour lifting weights or playing basketball in the patch of blacktop surrounded by razor wire.
Two dozen men mill about in prison greens. Hand signs flash. A fight breaks out between two gangs. The one guard in the yard calls for backup. When it is over, one man needs stitches in his face, another has a lump on his head, a third has an injured hand and a fourth wears a tight, bitter smile. They go back to their cells, and the guards fill out paperwork, willing to bet that the beef is not over.
Inside Tier Block 1 East, a maximum security row holding high-profile inmates and the extremely mentally disturbed, a dinner of sausage and fries is about to be served. One man, who is required to wear a paper suit so he cannot use his clothes to hang himself, has smeared himself with feces.
Because most of the county's psychiatric hospitals have been closed or scaled back over the last two decades, the jail has become a primary psychiatric and detoxification center, says Charlie Pendlebury, a psychiatric social worker in the jail's mental health unit.
Mr. Pendlebury is a tall, calm man with the demeanor of a painless dentist. He works in a windowless office and is often overwhelmed, he says. Medical records are kept in cardboard boxes and there is only one full-time psychiatrist on staff.
"I've been here 15 years, and what it comes down to is trying to keep the lid from blowing off," he says. "Just keep it cool until they get out of here. Then they are society's problem."
Dinner goes smoothly. The men on the fifth tier have ended the hunger strike they began in the morning. A television bolted to the wall plays until the lights go down at midnight. The guard makes his tour and all is quiet. Then someone starts baying like a dog.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sheriff Patrick A. Mahoney of Suffolk County, outside the jail, where he says crowding could produce "a major crisis" if it is not eased.
(Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. B12); In the Suffolk jail, inmates sleep in the walkways because all the cells are occupied. The jail, built in 1969, holds 1,800 men and women now, 144 percent of capacity. Below, inmates are returned from their court appearances in shackles. (Photographs by Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CORRECTION COMMISSION (NYS); SUFFOLK COUNTY CORRECTIONAL FACILITY FRENCH TOAST (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORRECTION COMMISSION (NYS); SUFFOLK COUNTY CORRECTIONAL FACILITY

GEOGRAPHIC: SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS PRISONS (91%); LITIGATION (89%); PAROLE (89%); COUNTIES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (70%); JUDGES (62%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE; MAHONEY, PATRICK A (SHERIFF) ROBERT J GAFFNEY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



317 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B;Page 1;Column 2;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: Albany Budget Stalls, but Discord Stays in High Gear

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 14

 BODY:
When Gov. George E. Pataki and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver had a rare meeting the other day, there was no shortage of unfinished business between the two foes. The discord they had bred in the Capitol had delayed the state budget and along with it decisions on many issues, from health care to drug policy to school violence.
Yet less than 15 cheerless minutes after the meeting began, it abruptly broke up with a familiar result: Each man was blaming the other for freezing the gears of state government. 
 Albany would never be a shoo-in for a civics hall of fame, but this year's proceedings have so far been particularly fruitless.
Since the current six-month session began in January, the Governor and the New York Legislature have enacted only about 60 laws, the fewest at this point for any year in the 90's and less than half the annual average of 125 for that period, according to state records. Most of this year's new laws have been relatively minor, like the ones giving honorary names to roads.
"I have always had trouble with the way Albany functions, and this year confirms my troubles," said Assemblyman Martin A. Luster, a Democrat from central New York.
At the heart of the paralysis is the collapse of the relationship between the Republican Governor and the Democratic Speaker, which has soured beyond the usual mistrust, stalling negotiations on the $73 billion state budget and numerous other matters. At the same time, the system has conferred so many advantages on sitting lawmakers -- last year, not one was defeated for re-election -- that they can be confident there will be little retribution from voters over what happens, or does not happen.
The Capitol's rhythms are usually dictated by the adoption of the budget, because unrelated policy matters are included in the haggling over spending. But the budget negotiators have been particularly wary of one another this year.
In 1998, Mr. Pataki, seeking more control over the budget-making, astonished the Assembly Democrats by vetoing more than $1 billion in programs that they had proposed.
This year, Mr. Pataki is again threatening to use his veto scalpel, saying that the Democrats are spendthrifts, and the Democrats are responding by balking at a new budget until Mr. Pataki promises to leave their programs alone.
As a result, there has been something of a work stoppage in the Capitol. The Governor and lawmakers have agreed on important matters only when faced with a deadline that could not be skirted. One of Albany's few notable accomplishments this year was its repeal of a tax on commuters who work in New York City, which occurred mostly because lawmakers wanted to appeal to voters in an impending special election in a suburban area.
The Legislature convened in January with an ambitious agenda. With the state's finances robust, and the Governor and legislative leaders experienced at piloting the government, they set their sights on a wide range of issues, from initiatives to modify the state's drug laws to new rules for polluted industrial sites. But no laws in these areas have been enacted.
Both houses of the Legislature have passed bills in recent weeks. Hundreds of them, in fact. But they remain merely proposals, since neither the Governor nor the legislative leaders have stepped in to negotiate compromises.
"There is a great deal of resentment and anger and frustration at the process," said State Senator Nicholas A. Spano, a Westchester County Republican.
The Legislature historically has composed the majority of its laws in the final days of the session, and when this one closes -- the end is scheduled for Wednesday but most likely will be postponed while the budget talks lurch on -- state leaders will probably have some achievements to point to. Still, having fallen so far behind, the Governor and the Legislature will have to jettison many issues in order to focus on a few they have time to resolve.
This has happened before, but it appears that this year the impasses are more difficult to surmount.
To many Democrats, and even to some Republicans, Mr. Pataki's leadership style has contributed to the stagnation. Never known for his noisy advocacy, the Governor has largely chosen to wait out his foes rather than twist their arms. But with the Legislature divided -- Democrats control the Assembly and Republicans control the Senate -- it often takes strong pressure from the executive branch to get the two houses to agree.
"New York has a great tradition of strong Governors who have been able to either work with or coerce the Legislature," said John R. Dunne, a former Republican State Senator from Long Island. "I think that we are lacking that element at this point. I think what Governor Pataki has to do is really utilize the full powers of his office, including that of persuasion, in some really hard face-to-face bargaining with the legislative leaders. Dewey, Rockefeller, F.D.R., Al Smith -- they were masters at it."
Mr. Silver has sought to portray Mr. Pataki as more interested in his national political ambitions than in tending to his current job. "I think it's clear the Governor was running for President," Mr. Silver said.
But Mr. Pataki said that Mr. Silver and the Assembly Democrats were to blame for the state of the legislative session because they "have decided to act based on their political interests, as opposed to the public's interests."
The hostility between the two leaders has reached a point at which they hardly ever speak in person, and while they talk to each other on the phone occasionally, as they did today, it is rarely helpful. In the middle is the leader of the Republican majority in the Senate, Joseph L. Bruno, who has a rocky relationship with Mr. Silver but who, except except for a few points, gets along with the Governor.
To old hands, the antagonism between state leaders seems more pronounced now.
"We didn't always agree, but we could get along," said Warren M. Anderson, a Republican from Binghamton who was leader of the State Senate in the 1970's and 1980's. "There was more of a spirit of trying to get a job done, which would require compromises. I don't think that it's indigenous to Albany. I think that it's probably the current times."
Usually, the parties put aside their differences after an election, but the attacks of last year's races seem to have exacerbated tensions. Hoping to loosen the Democrats' hold on the Assembly, the Republicans aired television commercials that portrayed Mr. Silver and the Assembly Democrats as sharks eager to gobble up -- that is, tax -- the money of upstate residents.
The Democrats ultimately gained a seat, but the ads offended Mr. Silver. His aides said Mr. Silver, an Orthodox Jew, believed that the ads were subtly anti-Semitic, which the Republicans vehemently denied.
If last year's election caused animosity in Albany, it also gave lawmakers confidence that they had the public's approval, even though the budgets passed in 1996 and 1997 were the state's latest.
Lawmakers say they think that voters care much more about the final shape of the budget than about the messiness of making it, and they think they can forestall any backlash by approving emergency bills to keep the government running. Still, many groups, from school districts to nonprofit agencies, have trouble planning because the delays prevent them from determining how much money they will receive from the state.
Albany's insularity is illustrated by the debate over measures to combat school violence. In the wake of the school killings in Colorado, Congress and state legislatures around the country hurried to pass gun control legislation and other proposals. In Albany, the Assembly Democrats and the Senate Republicans, allied with Mr. Pataki, advanced plans that had much in common, including provisions that raised penalties for violence on school property.
But a stalemate arose when Mr. Silver insisted that any negotiations include his proposal to ban assault weapons in the state. That infuriated Mr. Bruno, who accused Mr. Silver of adding the assault weapons measure, which many Republicans oppose, in an effort to damage the Republicans politically.
Mr. Bruno cut off talks. Instead of reaching a deal on areas over which there was little dispute, like rules governing when principals and teachers could remove disruptive students from classrooms, the two sides have done nothing for weeks.
Despite the lack of progress on that and other issues, lawmakers say there is little evidence that anyone is concerned. Mr. Luster, the Assemblyman from central New York, said he had received only two letters from constituents upset about the late budget, as opposed to hundreds that he had gotten in previous years.
State Senator Kemp Hannon, a Nassau County Republican, said that with the economy strong, people were not looking as much to the state for help. When he is home on weekends, constituents do not complain to him about Albany, he said.
"They think that the Legislature is very productive," he said. "They are thinking that we have done a great job."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 17, 1999, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Tuesday about discord in Albany over stalled budget negotiations misstated the date Gov. George E. Pataki was shown arriving for a news conference with the Senate Majority Leader, Joseph L. Bruno. It was June 8, not Monday.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. George E. Pataki and Senate Majority Leader Joseph L. Bruno arrived at the State Capitol together for a news conference yesterday. (Photographs by David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. B6); Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and Governor Pataki are at odds.
 
Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: Laws Passed" tracks the number of laws enacted by the Governor and the New York State Legislature, as of June 11 of each year, since 1990. (Source: New York State Legislature)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK LEGISLATURE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK LEGISLATURE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DRUG POLICY (71%); STRIKES (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); SUBURBS (60%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (56%); 

PERSON: EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999



318 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Another Company Takes the 'Hong Kong' Out of Its Name

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 15

 BODY:
Score another one for globalism over localism. Hong Kong's local telephone company, Hong Kong Telecommunications Ltd., said today that it would change its name to Cable and Wireless HKT to tighten ties with its London-based parent company, Cable and Wireless P.L.C.
Hong Kong Telecom said the new name was intended to convey the company's broader ambitions as a supplier of Internet connections and electronic commerce, as well as traditional telephone services, throughout Asia. 
 "We are rooted in Hong Kong and will continue to focus on Hong Kong with investment," said Linus Cheung, the chief executive of Hong Kong Telecom, at a news conference. But he added, "For the future performance of our company, we will have to move out of Hong Kong."
To some people here, the move is more discouraging evidence that Hong Kong is losing its brand-name prestige as a commercial center. Last November, HSBC Holdings, the parent of the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank, announced plans to drop the "Hongkong" from the English name of its flagship bank in favor of the HSBC abbreviation.
"Every time the Hong Kong name is removed from a major company, you reduce the publicity for Hong Kong," said Ian K. Perkin, the chief economist of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce. "It downgrades the world's perception of Hong Kong, which is disappointing."
Mr. Perkin also questioned Hong Kong Telecom's decision to tie its image to Cable and Wireless, a 127-year-old British company that cobbled together its global network by constructing telephone operations in onetime British colonies, from the Caribbean to India to Hong Kong.
"Cable and Wireless is a company that followed the British Empire around the world," he said, "The name seems to be a throwback."
To Hong Kong Telecom, however, the Cable and Wireless name symbolizes a thoroughly modern company no longer wholly dependent on either its home market or traditional voice communications. Its ventures outside Hong Kong include building the first fiber optic cable linking Chinese cities.
Hong Kong Telecom's nonvoice services range from fax and data transmission to Internet access and interactive television. Voice communications generate only 40 percent of the company's profits, Mr. Cheung said, and that figure could fall to 25 percent in three years.
"Our vision is to make Hong Kong the Internet hub and E-commerce center of Asia," Mr. Cheung said, noting that the company had spent $20 billion (Hong Kong), or $2.58 billion (United States), to upgrade its networks here.
Some analysts said the name change might have been dictated more by corporate imperatives in London. Although Cable and Wireless had one of the first genuinely global telecommunications networks, investors have not rewarded the company with a commensurate valuation in the stock market.
"They weren't getting credit for it because most of the assets weren't named for Cable and Wireless," said Lloyd Fischer, a telecommunications analyst at Salomon Smith Barney in Hong Kong.
Mr. Fischer predicted that the name change would have little effect in the home market because the company would not be changing its Chinese name, which translates as "Hong Kong Telecom." More than 95 percent of Hong Kong's residents are Chinese. HSBC also kept the Chinese name of the Hong Kong bank.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (69%); HSB (PAR) (69%); HBC (NYSE) (69%); 0005 (HKSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (97%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); UNITED STATES (72%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (53%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: HONG KONG TELECOMMUNICATIONS LTD (94%); CABLE & WIRELESS WORLDWIDE PLC (85%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (69%); CABLE & WIRELESS HKT LTD (58%); HONG KONG GENERAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONG KONG GENERAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (97%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); UNITED STATES (72%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (53%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TELECOMMUNICATIONS (93%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); DATA TRANSMISSION (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); 

PERSON: LINUS CHEUNG (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



319 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
If you're going where the tracks go, the train can be a realistic, pleasant alternative to air travel.

BYLINE: By Joe Sharkey

 BODY:
OF course, the train doesn't have anywhere near the reach of the plane. But for business travelers who happen to be headed where the train tracks go, the railroad offers a realistic alternative to the dread airport departure lounge.
Here's a report on one recent business trip on Amtrak's Metroliner, which travels between New York City and Washington, D.C.: 
 The train departed precisely on time. Seats were large (comparable to business-class seats on an airplane), with big pull-down trays and 120-volt outlets for electronic gear. Throughout the trip, computers and cellular phones were widely in use (though, in the case of cell phones, not ostentatiously).
In the first-class car, the seats were the same as coach, but attendants served free drinks and a hot meal or sandwich and snacks. Arrival was exactly on time three hours later at Washington's bustling Union Station. The ride was smooth and pleasant.
According to Amtrak, more business travelers are opting to go by rail, at least on the well-trod Metroliner route between New York and Washington. Last year, 2.1 million passengers took the Metroliner; so far this year, ridership is up more than 6 percent, according to an Amtrak spokesman.
Largely because of its growing popularity with business travelers, the Metroliner makes a profit of about $10 million a year for Amtrak, which recently announced an ambitious revamping of the service. Starting late this year, the Metroliner will be called Acela, with routes expanded to cover the whole Boston-New York-Washington corridor.
Metroliner fares are competitive with those for air travel, an important consideration for many business travelers and employers, who cringe at the huge disparity between air fares for unrestricted business travel and discounted leisure travel. On the airlines, for example, typical business fares now are nearly four times higher than the lowest discounted leisure fares (whereas threeyears ago, they were only about two and a half times higher), according to the American Express Business Airfare Index.
The weekday round-trip Metroliner fare from New York to Washington is $230 ($376 for the first-class accommodations, which means that the meal, drinks and extra service cost a very pricey $146). Unrestricted round-trip fares on both the Delta Air Lines and US Airways shuttles from New York to Washington are $404.
Incidentally, the train-plane fare difference is far more pronounced in California, which generously subsidizes some Amtrak routes. The round-trip fares on the Amtrak San Diegan trains between San Diego and Los Angeles, for example, are $50 ($72 for business class). By air, UAL's United Express and Skywest round-trip fares from Los Angeles to San Diego are $226.
 
Side Trips
Summer travel season is here, with mounting stresses on air-traffic control. Late Monday afternoon, flight controllers contending with thunderstorms in the Midwest ordered 50-mile intervals between all flights converging on New York City, with delays of an hour or more as flights piled up all across the country.
Usually, this is a recipe for more tension between long-suffering air travelers and haughty airlines, especially when a flight has left the gate only to idle interminably on the tarmac while captive passengers fume at the lack of information and the sit-down-and-shut-up attitude of the flight crew.
Not so, however, on AMR's American Airlines Flight 1968 from Chicago to Newark Monday afternoon. The cockpit crew and flight attendants provided a textbook example of how to handle a long delay with skill.
Shortly after announcing that the plane had been held indefinitely on the ground in Chicago, the captain came back on and said, earnestly, "Folks, I didn't know about this when we left the gate or, believe me, we would not have left that gate."
The captain then invited passengers to use their cell phones. Flight attendants passed out cold drinks and magazines, while making an inventory of passengers' connecting flights. Every 10 minutes, the pilot came back on to describe what he did and did not know about the delay. And more than an hour later, after the plane finally took off, a flight attendant announced that the captain had persuaded both American and Continental Airlines in Newark to hold connecting flights to Britain in order to accommodate several dozen passengers on the delayed flight from Chicago.
The upshot: Because of heads-up customer service, grumbles turned to approval in the air. Most of the passengers actually thanked the pilot as they filed out, well over an hour late.
 
Twofers to Britain
British Airways said yesterday that it would offer a free round-trip ticket to London with each seven-day advance-purchase round-trip economy ticket bought before June 30 for summer travel. (Sample round-trip fares for such British Airway tickets are: $598 from New York, $778 from Dallas and $798 from Los Angeles.) But there's a hitch: The free ticket is only good for travel from Nov. 1, 1999, through March 31, 2000 (except Dec. 15 through Jan. 15). This means the two tickets cannot be used together. However, it's a good deal for a business traveler who has to make a summer and winter trip to London. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (55%); LCC (NYSE) (53%); AXP (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (55%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (53%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%); NEW YORK (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); TRAINS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); AIR FARES (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



320 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
N.A.S.D., in a joint venture in Japan, moves to create an around-the-clock, global stock market.

BYLINE: By Edward Wyatt

 BODY:
THE National Association of Securities Dealers took a big step yesterday toward the creation of an around-the-clock, global stock market with the announcement that it would team up with the Softbank Corporation to develop a version of its electronic Nasdaq Stock Market in Japan to trade United States and Japanese stocks.
The new market, to be known as Nasdaq-Japan, will offer trading of the 100 or so largest stocks from the United States Nasdaq market and will recruit new Japanese companies that are seeking to raise capital from Japanese and American investors. In addition, it will seek to jointly list companies whose shares are currently listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 
 The new market, which is expected to open in the fourth quarter of 2000, will seek to accommodate investors' desires to trade both while the Nasdaq market is open in the United States -- while most of Japan is asleep -- and during the normal Japanese trading day, which lasts until about 1 A.M., Eastern standard time, or 2 A.M. during daylight time.
Eventually, the two markets could together provide investors with the ability to trade for up to 21 hours a day, closing only for a short period either before or after the standard hours of trading in the United States, said Frank G. Zarb, chairman and chief executive of the N.A.S.D., the parent of the Nasdaq market.
Coming less than three weeks after Nasdaq said it would begin preparing to extend its trading hours in the United States, yesterday's announcement demonstrates how rapidly markets around the globe are being transformed by technology and a global economic boom.
"To the extent we are successful here, it could have implications beyond Japan," Mr. Zarb said in a reference to his organization's attempts to cooperate with other financial markets around the world.
In a possible signal of its intentions, the N.A.S.D. recently registered potential names for Internet sites that combine the Nasdaq market's name with Hong Kong, China, Brazil, India and Germany, according to a report yesterday by Newsbytes, an Internet news service.
In Japan, Masayoshi Son, the chairman and chief executive of Softbank, heralded the new venture as nothing less than "a historic moment for the whole Japanese economy and society."
"This is a great opportunity for young, entrepreneurial companies that would like to have access to the equity markets in a different fashion than they currently do," Mr. Son said.
But he also made clear that much of the interest in Japan would come from Japanese investors who wanted to explore what many of them view as a potential gold mine: initial public offerings, particularly of United States Internet companies.
Relatively few Americans have wanted to invest recently in Japanese stocks, which have been in a brutal bear market for most of the decade. But some investment managers say the new market could make it easier for Japanese companies to raise money from investors, thereby stimulating the Japanese market and the economy.
"The obvious benefit is that this will be another venue for companies to raise money in Japan," said David Herro, portfolio manager of two Oakmark International mutual funds. "If the market has good standards, it might give Japanese companies an incentive to be more shareholder-oriented," a characteristic whose absence has often frustrated United States portfolio managers who invest in Japan.
In addition, Mr. Herro said, Nasdaq's entry into the Japanese financial markets is one more blow against the monopolistic forces that have kept foreign competitors out of Japan for so long.
"The most difficult thing about doing business in Japan is the closed nature of the economy," he said. "Anything that eats away at the strength of Japan Inc. is for the better."
The Nasdaq-Japan venture will initially receive an investment of $4.9 million, half of which will come from the N.A.S.D. and half from Softbank, the Japanese venture-capital concern that has backed successful Internet ventures such as Yahoo, E*Trade, Ziff-Davis and Geocities.
But the success of the market is dependent on winning the approval of regulators in both countries, as well as its ability to cobble together the complex systems needed to support on-line trading. The Nasdaq-Japan market will rely heavily on the Internet to connect its American and Japanese constituents rather than on a dedicated electronic system.
Mr. Zarb cautioned that joint ventures were tricky by nature, and they become more complicated when they involve partners from different countries who speak different languages. Approvals for the new market must be gained not only from Japanese regulators, including the Ministry of Finance, but also from the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Both Mr. Zarb and Mr. Son acknowledged that two sets of regulations could make the hurdles the venture faces twice as tall.
The Nasdaq-Softbank venture is clearly aimed at expanding the popularity of electronic trading. With Nasdaq-Japan, the N.A.S.D. hopes to establish an important beachhead in a country where electronic trading is, so far, insignificant.
Only 36,000 on-line trading accounts exist in the Japan. In the United States, where on-line transactions account for 16 percent of all stock trades, Charles Schwab alone has 2.5 million active on-line accounts. In Japan, however, E*Trade, the electronic broker that is 27 percent-owned by Softbank, is planning a rapid rollout of its services in Japan.
In addition, the Nasdaq-Japan market hopes to offer Japanese investors the opportunity to buy and trade futures contracts, options and index products, investment vehicles that are still oddities in Japan.
Not everyone is enthusiastic about the planned venture. Alan L. Davidson, president of Zeus Securities, a small broker-dealer based in Jericho, N.Y., who is also a director of the N.A.S.D., said that the venture raised the same problems for small securities firms as the recently approved proposal to extend Nasdaq's trading hours -- that is, how to afford to remain open all that time if customers want to trade.
Mr. Zarb said yesterday that the N.A.S.D. would work to limit the inconveniences posed by extended trading hours on small securities firms.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 9984 (TSE) (94%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (94%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (96%); BRAZIL (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (73%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: SOFTBANK CORP (94%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (96%); BRAZIL (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); JOINT VENTURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: FRANK G ZARB (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



321 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Planned Korean Share Issue Angers a Big U.S. Hedge Fund

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 15

 BODY:
A leading American hedge fund that has prominently invested in South Korea's rebounding economy is protesting a plan by the nation's biggest mobile phone operator to issue more shares.
The objection from Tiger Management L.L.C., operated by the well-known fund manager Julian H. Robertson, calls the plan by SK Telecom unfair because the larger SK group may benefit disproportionately. Tiger's complaint is regarded as another in a series of signs that the momentum of South Korea's economic modernization is slowing as the country regains financial strength. 
 Tiger said today that it was calling for a special shareholders meeting on the matter and threatened to take its case to court if SK Telecom's board did not cancel the plan to issue shares.
Lee Jung Dong, a spokesman for SK Telecom, said today that the company's board had approved the plan. He expressed surprise at Tiger's reaction.
The fact that such a complaint has been made against SK Telecom -- which has been regarded as an example of how foreign investors can impose Western-style corporate governance and disclosure on Asian companies -- is one measure of how unhappy those investors are becoming. SK Telecom's minority investors, in addition to winning the right to recommend outside directors, had succeeded in appointing an outside auditor.
Perhaps feeding such unhappiness, the Government has delayed selling two big banks it nationalized in the financial crisis, which took hold in December 1997 and required a $58 billion aid package from the International Monetary Fund.
Today, the Government said it was dissatisfied with the offers made in its second attempt at selling Korea Life Insurance and announced a third round of bidding. The first attempt failed when the Government's terms scared away big foreign insurers like Metropolitan Life and AXA of France.
On Monday, officials said they might reopen bidding for a 25 percent stake in Korea Gas, a state-owned monopoly, because bidders including the Osaka Gas Company of Japan and BG P.L.C. of Britain had not met its price demands or reached an agreement on management participation.
There is concern among foreign investors that the rights offering is an attempt to prevent them from increasing their stake in the company when the Government lifts the restrictions on foreign ownership of telecommunications companies to 49 percent from the current 33 percent.
They say the SK group is worried that if foreigners own such a substantial part of SK Telecom, the company may slip from its control. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SKMD (LSE) (92%); SKM (NYSE) (92%); 017670 (KSE) (92%); BG (LSE) (81%); 9532 (TSE) (63%); 003600 (KSE) (58%); CS (PAR) (57%); AXJ (ASX) (57%); AXA (BIT) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%); 

COMPANY: SK TELECOM CO LTD (92%); BG GROUP PLC (81%); OSAKA GAS CO LTD (63%); SK HOLDINGS CO LTD (58%); AXA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (73%); OSAKA, JAPAN (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HEDGE FUNDS (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NEW ISSUES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); INSURANCE (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); LIFE INSURANCE (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); NATIONALIZATION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (69%); APPROVALS (69%); STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



322 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Abu Ghosh Journal;
His Pot of Gold Gives a Sparkle to the Whole Town

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

DATELINE: ABU GHOSH, Israel, June 14

 BODY:
Driving his gleaming black Cadillac through the rutted roads of this village outside Jerusalem, Jawdat Ibrahim talked about his miserable childhood. It was miserable even by the relatively abject standards of an Israeli Arab born 34 years ago in a country that considered him second class.
When he was 4, he sat beside his father on a bed as the man, for reasons never known, took his life -- drinking poison, then fading away. His mother, bereft, raised her six children in a cellar with a dirt floor, the only finished part of the house his father had intended to build. There was rarely enough to eat, and what Mr. Ibrahim remembers most is feeling lonely in a village that was technically one big family. 
 Today, in a melancholy mood, Mr. Ibrahim still seems somewhat lonely, although he has literally gone from the cellar to the penthouse. He narrated his story on the expansive terrace of one of his marbled, Jacuzzi-filled townhouses here, a few blocks from his fancy restaurant in the center of town. Then, in butter-soft leather loafers, he glided down the polished stairs.
The terrible circumstances of his youth, he said, created a philosophy in his home. Determined to treat others with the respect she was often denied, Mr. Ibrahim's mother raised her children not only to consider themselves the equal of everyone, Jew or Arab, but also to consider everyone their neighbor. It was a mindset that planted itself deep inside Mr. Ibrahim as a bud of self-confidence.
It stayed with him even as he fled to Chicago, where his uncle lived, and as he drove a tow truck through frigid Midwest winters, bailing out luxury vehicles trapped in snowbanks.
Mr. Ibrahim had no grand design for the future when he bought his first and last lottery ticket in 1990.
But when he won a $17.5 million jackpot in the Illinois State Lottery, he took it as destiny. He was forced to sue to get the prize, denied him on a technicality; the lawsuit increased his earnings to $22.7 million. He embarked first on an extended shopping spree. Then, in 1992, with the option of moving anywhere in the world, he chose to return with his millions to this pocket-sized traditional town -- to his home, his clan.
Mr. Ibrahim has parlayed the money into a peculiar role for himself -- not only inside the town, which he helped remake, but in Israel as a whole, where he used new-found access to designate himself an emissary of peace, brotherhood and protexia (the Hebrew word for pull, or connections).
"Jawdat is an open guy after all those years in the States," said Sallah Tarif, an Israeli Arab member of Parliament with the Labor Party. "This is the kind of type we need here in order to do something with ourselves, to advance."
Shortly after he returned from the United States, Mr. Ibrahim opened the elegant Abu Ghosh restaurant, starting a trend that has considerably helped the economy of the town. Abu Ghosh, whose working people used to solely commute to factories every day, now has a full row of locally owned restaurants.
On Saturdays, the town is jammed with secular Israeli Jewish tourists. For most of the tourists, it is their only contact with Arabs at all, inside or outside Israel. But most do not come for political reasons; almost every restaurant in nearby Jerusalem is closed for the Sabbath.
Still, Mr. Ibrahim, who shmoozes in Hebrew with his customers, thinks of it as a kind of peace industry. And he points to the Israeli-American-Palestinian negotiations that have taken place at his restaurant as evidence that he has created a kind of halfway house between worlds.
"I like to think that I have put Abu Ghosh on the map as a symbol of peace," he said.
"We Israeli Arabs should be the bridge of peace. Israelis have to have peace with us first, then they can think about Lebanon and Syria."
Abu Ghosh has always had a strange standing in the Israeli Arab world. It was seen as a "collaborator's village," because the mukhtar, or leader, of the clan who lived there made a decision 50 years ago not to fight the Israelis in order to preserve the town.
Superficially it looks better off than most Israeli Arab towns, but Mr. Ibrahim said that four or five families are squeezed into almost every house. The town, half the size it used to be, is hemmed in by a highway and Jewish developments. Now, when someone is tempted to sell land to an outsider, Mr. Ibrahim rushes to buy it first.
"I love buying land, especially in Israeli Arab villages," he said.
Part of Mr. Ibrahim's goal has been to reconnect Abu Ghosh with the Israeli Arab world, to make it clear that their problems are shared, that "we are brothers." His Abu Ghosh Foundation finances projects for Israeli Arabs throughout the country, from youth leadership programs and technology training to prenatal care and direct cash grants to cover the medical costs of the very poor.
The foundation also awards about 40 scholarships a year, to both Arab and Jewish students -- "so that maybe some Jewish foundation will do the same in reverse," he said.
He himself barely made it through high school, mostly because he was working nearly full time after class, tending the backyard gardens of Israeli Jews. Possessed of considerable chutzpah, he later tried his hand at running a small ceramics factory in the heart of Jerusalem -- after talking the aging Jewish owner into leasing it to him for a pittance.
But he was not a businessman, and when he ran to the United States, he was fleeing a mountain of debts. He persuaded a travel agent to sell him a plane ticket on credit, and flew off to Chicago to find his uncle.
Personally, his return was triumphant but difficult, reconciling the pain of his past with the power that the lottery money has brought him.
"When people come and ask me for things now," he said, "I can't help but ask myself where were those people when I was a child."
His first marriage, to an American he fell madly in love with, started in Las Vegas and ended in divorce.
Three years ago, his second wedding was a grand affair, a Muslim wedding held at the Notre Dame Church in the heart of town and attended by a who's who of Israeli, Palestinian and Jordanian political figures. His mother and his 100-year-old grandmother beamed with pride. They had persuaded him to consent to an arranged marriage to a young woman from his extended family.
He was told that love would grow, he said, but it didn't work. He and his wife are separated, he said sadly, standing in front of a birthday card framed and displayed on the bar of his restaurant. It's from President Clinton.
The break-up was not his only recent disappointment.
For the last five years, the Interior Ministry, which was controlled by the ultra-Orthodox Shas Party, has run the town. The Mayor and the entire council were religious Jews, appointed by Shas. Finally, the town held its first elections for Mayor early this year. Mr. Ibrahim ran -- and lost.
"He's young, and he was away for a long time," said Dr. Subhi Abu Ghosh. "And we behaved no differently from those in any other democratic race, we didn't necessarily elect the best."
Pensive about his ups and downs, Mr. Ibrahim has tired of the assumption that his lottery earnings have fueled his successes and fed his failures.
"I make myself myself," he said. "It's not the money. It's me."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jawdat Ibrahim with his grandmother and his Cadillac. His winnings in the Illinois lottery, when he lived in America, have been put to use, he says, in various way to make Abu Ghosh a symbol of peace. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)
 
Map of Israel showing the location of Abu Ghosh: One man's Illinois lottery prize has done wonders for Abu Ghosh.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (78%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: ABU GHOSH RESTAURANT (61%); ISRAELI ARAB (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: ISRAELI ARAB (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (78%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHILDREN (90%); LOTTERIES (85%); RESTAURANTS (69%); LUXURY GOODS (67%); LITIGATION (61%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); 

PERSON: JAWDAT IBRAHIM (96%); ABU GHOSH (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



323 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
An Epidemic of Grins Hits the Granite State

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
George W. Bush is literally golden, with a ruddy glow that gives him the look of having been perfectly toasted. "I know what matters is that a candidate have a positive, hopeful, upbeat, optimistic message," he said at a rally in New Hampshire this week, going on to assure the crowd that he himself was positive, hopeful, upbeat and optimistic as all get-out.
At this point, the Governor of Texas had been campaigning for President for approximately 40 hours, and appeared to have pretty much wrapped up the Republican nomination. The average voter, who could not identify Mr. Bush in a lineup, nevertheless seems to like him much better than Al Gore, rating him higher in almost every possible category of achievement. The way things are going we will probably soon hear that polls show most Americans think Mr. Bush would do a better job as Tipper's husband. It would be enough to make even Bob Dole giddy. 
 The cheer absolutely pulsates through his campaign. Mr. Bush has a Clintonian determination to win over every single individual in a crowded ballroom, and if one stray voter seems oblivious to his presence he will go after that lost little sheep, grabbing an arm or clapping a back until contact is made. He can work a room for hours, till no hand is left unshaken. This is a good day to be alive! Later he will make his formal speech, which is always about being a compassionate conservative, and he will perhaps tell a little story about his mother, the former First Lady, or his dad, the ex-President, or remind them of all the successes he achieved governing Texas during one of the greatest economic booms in the nation's history.
"I love being in New Hampshire!" Mr. Bush says over and over.
And New Hampshire loves Mr. Bush. Its famously dour inhabitants are making money hand over fist these days, and they are positive, hopeful, upbeat and optimistic too. Frankly, the Republicans there do not seem nearly as interested in the principles of compassionate conservatism as they are bonded to Mr. Bush's euphoria. They like all the candidates! Larry Emerton, an uncommitted state legislator, has hardly had time to decide whom to support this time around, what with the way his real estate business has been going like gangbusters. He thinks Mr. Bush would be a terrific nominee even though he has been a longtime backer of Lamar Alexander ("He's a nice guy") and admires just about everybody else as well. "I even like Bill Bradley," says Mr. Emerton, as he watches Mr. Bush spreading cheer at the Republican Women's Lilac Luncheon.
Mr. Bush is supposed to be on a mission to recapture the Republican Party from extremism, just as Bill Clinton took back the Democrats for the moderate middle in 1992. At this moment, his job seems beyond easy. The forces of right-wing righteousness whose howling scared away voters over the last two elections are already in retreat. When Mr. Bush implicitly declares war against Pat Buchanan in the free-trade section of his stump speech ("The fearful build walls, the confident tear them down!") he is really paying Mr. Buchanan the compliment of pretending he's on the radar screen.
However, the old, angry Republican Party is still alive and yelping in Washington, where it is currently engaged in a war against gun control and a fratricidal feud over the budget. Mr. Bush actually shares many of its positions on matters like guns and abortion and tax cuts. (When asked to name the first two things he would do as President, Mr. Bush, who didn't appear to have thought quite that specifically about the future, basically said he would build more antiballistic-missile systems and cut taxes for the wealthy.) But the mean-spiritedness of the capital is anathema to his message of cooperation and inclusion -- there's plenty to go around and nobody should be left out.
It would be interesting to see Mr. Bush and the House Republicans trying to inhabit the same ticket. At the candidate's first stop in New Hampshire, someone asked him what he had to say about Congress's accomplishments.
"I thought the welfare package was great," he said, reverting to Bill Clinton's first term. Asked for something more recent he laughed, and called 1996 "recent memory."
It was the only time all week that George W. Bush looked backward. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); REAL ESTATE (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



324 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Chief Seeks to Insure A Nightmare Doesn't Recur

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, June 15

 BODY:
The former Mexican President, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, was a political hero when he ended his term in 1994. But just a few weeks later, the peso dived, jobs and savings were annihilated, and Mr. Salinas was soon forced into disgrace and exile.
Now his successor, President Ernesto Zedillo, is trying to insure that an end-of-term economic nightmare does not recur when he leaves office next year. 
 Today Mexico announced that it has pulled together financing and credits worth $23.7 billion to "armor" the economy, as President Zedillo put it, through December 2000. That is when he will turn over his office after six years to a new President chosen in the most democratic -- and therefore the most unpredictable -- elections in Mexican history.
To add to the reassurance top finance officials are offering ahead of time to international markets, they also pledged to maintain the disciplined economic policies that have allowed Mexico to ride relatively smoothly while other Latin American countries, especially Brazil, were buffeted by global turbulence during the last year.
Finance Minister Jose Angel Gurria said Mexico would stick to a modest Government deficit of 1.25 percent of the nation's gross domestic product this year, and plans to lower it further, to 1 percent, next year. Guillermo Ortiz, the head of Banco de Mexico, the central bank, said the battle against inflation would remain a priority.
Mr. Gurria said the finance package, including a $4.2 billion credit from the International Monetary Fund, would "allow us all to sleep easier."
The I.M.F. is providing the funds under a 17-month Standby Arrangement, one of the agency's regular, non-emergency programs. Mexican officials said the monetary fund is showing confidence in Mexico, which is continuing to pay down $5.9 billion it owes from a 1995 bailout.
The package includes $5.2 billion from the World Bank, mainly for investments in social programs and government reforms, and $4 billion from the Export-Import Bank of the United States to help underwrite some of the $200 billion in trade each year between the two countries.
In addition, the Inter-American Development Bank announced that it would provide $3.5 billion in loans through the year 2001 for big construction projects and reforms to strengthen local governments.
Enrique V. Iglesias, the president of the bank, joined the chorus of praise for Mexico today, saying that by negotiating the I.M.F. loan Mexico "provides additional comfort" to international markets about the coming elections.
Like a patient struggling with mood swings, Mexico went far toward controlling its habitual end-of-term depressions by just acknowledging that they existed. Throughout his presidency, Mr. Zedillo has built up foreign reserves so that the country would not be caught short in case political events during the next year make investors want to pull back. Now reserves stand at $30 billion, a record high.
"None of the imbalances that existed in 1994, and that led to the crisis of 1995, are present today," Mr. Ortiz, the central banker, announced triumphantly this morning.
Mexico is expecting at least $9 billion in long-term foreign investment this year, Mr. Gurria said. Overall foreign debt, by one measure, is about half what it was in 1994, the Finance Minister said.
"It's almost overkill," said Walter Molano, the head of research at BCP Securities in Greenwich, Conn. "They are so heavily armored, they seem to be expecting something much worse than even what the markets expect."
Steep downturns also came in 1982, when President Jose Lopez Portillo nationalized the banks just before leaving office, and to a milder degree in 1988 when Mr. Salinas took over.
Economic collapse did not come until weeks after the end of Mr. Salinas's term in 1994, but a series of unsettling events during his final year in office undermined confidence in the economy. The Zapatista Indian uprising in the southern state of Chiapas and the assassination of the governing party's first presidential candidate, Luis Donaldo Colosio, made investors nervous. They bolted en masse when Mexico disclosed that its debts were far outrunning its foreign reserves.
Mr. Zedillo spent his first years in office picking up the pieces of the economy and started it growing again. He also promoted reforms that made it much more difficult for him to control the outcome of the presidential elections in July 2000.
He has said he is anxious to spare Mexicans the losses they have routinely suffered at the end of presidential terms. He is also anxious to be spared the ostracism that fell to Mr. Salinas. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (82%); NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (82%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE US (63%); BANCO DE MEXICO (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (71%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: CARLOS SALINAS (74%); GUILLERMO ORTIZ (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



325 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Advances by 31.66; Inflation Data Are Awaited

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Stocks inched higher yesterday in thin, convictionless trading in advance of an important inflation report scheduled to be released this morning.
Concern about what the May Consumer Price Index might show caused bond traders to pare positions late yesterday. And the sight of rising long-term interest rates brought stock prices down from their highs. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 31.66 points, or three-tenths of a percent, to 10,594.99. Blue chips that have been punished recently -- a list that includes Procter & Gamble, Citigroup and Merck -- led the advance yesterday.
Among broader indexes, a rise in large technology stocks helped to lift the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index by 7.16 points, or five-tenths of a percent, to 1,301.16. The Nasdaq market, hit hard on Monday, recovered a bit yesterday as prices of some Internet stocks came off their lows. The Nasdaq composite index rose 16.36 points, or seven-tenths of a percent, to 2,414.67. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller- company stocks gained 2.48 points, or six-tenths of a percent, to 434.01.
"All in all, the market gave a great account of itself a day before an important number" like the consumer price report, said Ned Collins, head of stock trading at Daiwa Securities America.
"But there is no conviction about anything. Until we get some definitive statement from the Fed about interest rates and start to see some second-quarter earnings reports, the market will lack a catalyst to take off."
Trading activity reflected the lack of enthusiasm many seem to have for stocks just now.
On the New York Stock Exchange, 696 million shares changed hands. Volume on Nasdaq was 837 million shares.
As Mr. Collins suggested, uncertainty is likely to remain mired in the market for the rest of the week at least even if the consumer price report shows that inflationary pressures are subdued. That is because Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, is scheduled to testify before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress on monetary policy and the economy. And Friday is a "triple witching" session, when options, futures contracts and options on futures all expire. Trading on those days is often volatile.
"I would not be surprised to see the market trade in this directionless fashion until the Fed holds its meeting at the end of the month," said Hug Johnson, chief investment officer at the First Albany Corporation.
The Fed's policy-making Open Market Committee is scheduled to hold two days of meetings beginning June 29. Most financial market participants expect the central bank to raise short-term interest rates by a quarter-point at the meeting.
Yesterday was a good one for semiconductor stocks, which rallied after a Merrill Lynch analyst raised his estimate for the growth rate in semiconductor revenue.
Texas Instruments gained 5 1/8, to 134 3/8. Broadcom jumped 9 5/8, to 110 5/8. And Intel , the industry leader, rose 1 5/16 , to 55 11/16 .
Oil companies also did well on expectations that demand for gasoline is rising as the summer driving season gets under way.
Exxon, a Dow component, rose 1, to 82 1/8. BP Amoco gained 2 5/16 , to 113 3/16 . And Royal Dutch Petroleum was up 7/8, to 60 1/8.
Other market movers included Coca-Cola, which fell 1 1/16 , to 63 3/4, after a health scare in parts of Europe led the company's drinks to be pulled from shelves in Luxembourg and parts of France and the Netherlands.
CMP Group, which owns Maine's largest electric utility, saw its shares jump 5 11/16 , to 25 3/4, on news that Energy East, which owns a New York utility, had offered to buy it for $1.2 billion.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Fall
 By Bloomberg News
 Bond prices were little changed yesterday as investors were reluctant to buy Treasuries ahead of today's consumer price report, which may convince the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates later this month. "People are cutting back on any unnecessary positions" before the May price report, which follows the biggest monthly price gain in almost nine years in April, said Alan Day, who helps oversee about $4 billion at Stratevest Group in Burlington, Vt. "When in doubt, sell."
Yields have risen more than a quarter-point in the last three weeks, and many investors said they were already being compensated for a possible half-point increase in the Fed's overnight lending rate, now at 4.75 percent, when policy makers meet June 29-30. The price of the 30-year issue fell 6/32 , to 88 9/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.11 percent, from 6.09 percent on Monday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (61%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (61%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (61%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GLEACHER & CO INC (61%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FUTURES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (85%); ELECTRONICS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



326 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2079 words

HEADLINE: Dancing to a New Health Care Beat;
Latin America Becomes Ripe For U.S. Companies' Picking

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM and CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
Millions of people across Latin America are, for better or worse, getting a taste of American-style health insurance. Pushed by the rising expectations of a growing middle class, countries in the region are opening their government-dominated health systems to private companies, both domestic and foreign.
Some of the biggest United States insurers, seeing Latin America as a prime growth market, are actively testing the waters from Mexico to Argentina, Brazil and Chile. Latin Americans already spend $120 billion annually on health care, or about $412 per capita, adjusted to reflect local health costs. While this is only about one-ninth of the total health spending in the United States, the big Latin American countries are spending a much bigger share of their economies on health than all the Asia-Pacific economies except Japan. 
 Aetna International has already put together health plans with 3.3 million members in seven Latin American countries. The Cigna International health care unit has 1.5 million members in five countries. American International Group has more than 300,000 health insurance customers in the region.
Of course, government officials, physicians and health care workers there are all too aware of the problems of managed care in the United States, which include disputes over the decision-making authority of doctors and growing numbers of people without health coverage. But they hope to avoid similar pitfalls. Doctors' groups in Brazil and Ecuador and the powerful Government-allied unions in Argentina, in fact, have resisted moves to privatize health care.
"The negative part of the picture," said William C. Hsiao, director of health systems studies at the Harvard School of Public Health, "is that the private health plans in these countries compete by selecting the best risks" -- recruiting predominantly young and healthy members and avoiding people who would be likely to need costly treatments.
"The insurance companies take the cream off the top: employees of banks, high-tech companies, large multinationals," Professor Hsiao said. They do not operate in the countryside, where health services have always been sparse. Governments have tried to provide at least rudimentary care, typically by government doctors and public hospitals. However, exploding populations and the rising cost of care have swamped the public system as life expectancy in Latin America has risen to 71 years, about five years less than it is in the United States.
Wealthy Latin Americans still go to prestigious medical centers in the United States and Europe, as they always have, or to Rio de Janeiro, a world capital of cosmetic surgery. But middle-class working people, who often must wait in line for hours at overtaxed clinics, have lost patience with the public system.
With encouragement from the World Bank and other Washington lending agencies that promote privatization, Chile, Colombia and Brazil have lowered the bars that had kept out foreign-owned health companies. Argentina and Mexico have taken the first such steps and may go further after their coming presidential elections.
 
Seeking Payoffs Down the Road
 Managed care is an often contentious concept both north and south of the Rio Grande, and American companies are avoiding the term. But they are preparing the ground for managed care techniques, setting up computerized information systems that can monitor the practice patterns of physicians and hospitals, and help supervise patients with expensive problems.
"We have not used the term 'managed care' in Argentina," said Mark Tabak, chief executive of International Managed Care Advisers, a New York-based fund that invested $50 million in a joint start-up venture with Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires. The plan, Provincia Salud, calls its business "coordinated care," he said.
Revenues of private health care companies are growing much faster in Latin America than in the United States, where managed care has matured into a slow-growth field with slim profits. American International Group says its revenues in the region are growing 20 percent annually on average.
Chris James, a senior vice president of Cigna International health care, said the number of health insurance customers and the amounts they would be able to spend were growing significantly.
"These markets are already larger than most countries in the Asia-Pacific region, except Japan," he said. "More significantly, they are changing faster."
Aetna International has invested $510 million in health care ventures in Latin America over the last five years. Cigna has invested $475 million overseas since 1997, most of it in health care in Brazil.
Both Aetna and Cigna had $800 million or more in Latin American health care revenues last year. Profits have been modest so far, but the companies project substantial payoffs down the road.
One reason for that forecast is that relatively easy savings -- what health care consultants call the low-hanging fruit -- are still there to pick. For example, there are the big initial savings like those that managed care concerns reaped in the United States by paying hospitals a fixed amount for each patient or a low negotiated rate. As hospitals sent patients home sooner, charges dropped for employers and insurance companies.
Also, unlike the United States market, the private insurance market in many Latin American countries is not closely regulated.
"Each country is on a different time frame," said Howard Kahn, vice president for global health business at Aetna International. "You have to be sensitive to the medical culture, the social culture, the stage of economic development."
 
Greater Access, And Room to Grow
 Some middle-class Latin Americans with good jobs say they are glad to have private coverage, which so far has included few restrictions on care.
"Obviously, I'm happy," said Alejandra Couto, 34. Her son Tomas, a premature baby who weighed less than 2 pounds at birth, was treated for 10 weeks in a well-equipped Buenos Aires hospital that is part of a big health care company that Aetna bought in January for $120 million. Tomas, now 3 months old, has thrived, Ms. Couto said.
"In public hospitals you can have one nurse for eight infants," she said. "Here, it's one nurse for every two babies."
Ms. Couto said she paid $28 each month for coverage that her American-owned employer, Foxboro Argentina, arranged with the Aetna unit, Asistencia Medica Social Argentina. Her employer picked up the charges not covered by the insurer.
The good news, Professor Hsiao of Harvard said, is that public and private hospital officials and physicians "all begin to think a new way" -- they become alert to making the system more cost-effective and efficient, which may someday lead to better care. "These countries are spending a significant amount of money for health care," he said.
According to the World Bank's latest figures, Brazil spends 6.8 percent of its gross domestic product on health care, Chile 7.9 percent and Argentina 9.7 percent. The United States spent 13.5 percent of its gross domestic product on health care in 1997, the most recent data available.
Poor, elderly working people who were fully covered by Government social security programs now must come up with co-payments in Chile and Argentina. This presents "enormous barriers to access," said Dr. Howard Waitzkin of the University of New Mexico, one of the authors of a survey of the growth of managed care in Latin America published in The New England Journal of Medicine on April 8.
In Chile, the Government of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, taking advice from advocates of a free market who had been trained at the University of Chicago, began to privatize in the early 1980's. But private insurers still cover fewer than 5 percent of those over 60 and typically charge higher premiums to women of childbearing age, said Cristian Baeza, a former head of the national insurance fund in Chile who is joining the department of health policy and management at Johns Hopkins University.
Alejandro Ferreiro, a Government official who supervises health insurance in Chile, said, "The current system of risk selection is based on economic logic, but this does not make political or social logic."
Employers, especially American companies, yearn for anything to hold costs down. But some expensive local practices may be hard to change. Employees at one multinational in Brazil had a choice of three health plans and could go to doctors belonging to any of them at any time, said Helen Darling, a managed care expert at the employee-benefits consulting firm Watson Wyatt.
Companies that provide paid coverage often find that an employee has "lent" his health plan identification card to a "cousin."
"We run into that a lot," Mr. Kahn of Aetna said. But insurance companies have to proceed carefully. "We try to stay a step ahead of the competition," he added, but if a company gets "too far out in front, it may lose customers.
"What we consider clear fraud in the United States may not be considered fraud in some places," Mr. Kahn continued.
 
A Tempting Niche . . . And Politics
 In Brazil, the colossus of the region, 40 million people are covered by hundreds of private health plans, from traditional fee-for-service plans to varying degrees of managed care. Many plans are cooperatives owned by physicians, but American insurers and venture capital funds hope to scoop them up and install their own management methods.
One giant federation of co-ops there, Unimed, which has 11 million members and 87,000 doctors, seems too big to swallow.
"Brazil is the fastest-growing opportunity," Mr. James of Cigna said. "The public system doesn't work. Per capita spending on health is less than $300," compared with more than $3,900 in the United States in 1997.
More than 60 percent of Argentina's 37 million people have some coverage, mainly through labor union plans called obras sociales.
"No private company would do what we do to prevent disease and improve the life style of our members," said Alberto Antoniotti, the administrator of the Primero de Mayo clinic in La Matanza, an industrial city near Buenos Aires. The clinic is operated by a union that represents education workers.
But members of small, weak unions typically get lower-quality care in poorly equipped clinics, and at least 11 million people in Argentina have no coverage at all.
In his office, surrounded by photographs of Eva Peron -- who is still revered as the patron saint of the obras sociales -- Jose Luis Lingeri, the superintendent of the system, said people who now fall through the cracks would have better access to coverage as the weaker union plans merge into stronger plans.
Meanwhile, critics say funds earmarked for health often vanish into political slush funds and the pockets of union officials. "The problem is, we have a political system that corrupts," said Hector Carrica, a health care official of Argentine Workers Central, a 750,000-member federation that competes with the much larger unions allied with the big Peronist party.
Two million people, most of them middle class, are covered by prepaid plans like the Aetna-owned company, which has 240,000 members. Each provides access to one or two hospitals and a list of doctors, much like a preferred provider network in the United States.
The World Bank lent Argentina $350 million to revise its system and make it easier for obras sociales to deal with private managed care companies. But the politically powerful Peronist unions blocked President Carlos Saul Menem's deregulation program in Congress.
Blue Cross plans are also looking for Latin American opportunities. Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Delaware has a joint venture with local partners in a small prepaid plan in Uruguay and plans to expand in Argentina, where it already offers coverage to people who go to United States medical centers. Blue Shield of California and the Blues plans in Texas and Arizona have a joint venture that intends to open shop in Mexico when it gets the go-ahead from the Government.
"It is natural for the private sector to move into the health system because public resources are so scarce," said Antonio Palocci, a public health doctor in Brazil who is also a Workers Party member of Congress. "But I worry about foreign groups coming in, because they might view health care more as a business than a basic service."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: As part of its growing investment in Latin America, Aetna bought Asistencia Medica Social Argentina. The unit owns Sanatorio Mitre, a 374-bed hospital in Buenos Aires. Brain surgery at Sanatorio Mitre. Viviana Laura Galli and her husband, Edgardo Horacio Jaime, visit their son at the hospital's intensive care pediatric ward. Alejandra Couto with her son Tomas, who weighed less than 2 pounds at birth and was treated for 10 weeks at Sanatorio Mitre. (Photographs by Horacio Paone for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Fertile Ground"
Latin Americans are big spenders on medical care, and American health care companies see this as an opportunity to develop new markets.
Chart lists gross domestic product, medical spending per person and medical spending as a percentage of G.D.P., for the U.S. and selected Latin American nations. (Source: World Bank)(pg. C8)
 
Chart: "Exporting Managed Care"
American health care companies are testing the market for private health insurance in Latin America.
 
AETNA
 
MEMBERS IN LATIN AMERICA: 3.3 million
1998 REVENUE IN LATIN AMERICA: $864 million
HEALTH CARE INVESTMENTS IN LATIN AMERICA: $510 million
 
CIGNA
 
MEMBERS IN LATIN AMERICA: 1.5 million
1998 REVENUE IN LATIN AMERICA: $800 million (approx.)
INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENTS: $475 million (Mostly health care spending in Brazil
since 1997)
 
(Sources: The companies)(pg. C1)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CI (NYSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (97%); BRAZIL (95%); ARGENTINA (94%); MEXICO (93%); CHILE (93%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ECUADOR (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: CIGNA CORP (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (97%); BRAZIL (95%); ARGENTINA (94%); MEXICO (93%); CHILE (93%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ECUADOR (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOSPITALS (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (68%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (68%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (57%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



327 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Gates Testifies, and the Republicans Seek to Forge Closer Links

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15

 BODY:
Al Gore may not have invented the Internet, but he and President Clinton have honed their skills of extracting political contributions from Silicon Valley. Now, in a three-day "High Tech Summit" on Capitol Hill, Republicans are trying to show that they have the capacity to be even better friends of William H. Gates and his competitors.
This morning, Mr. Gates -- his once-sharp barbs about Washington lawmakers replaced with such deferential comments as "you've raised an interesting issue, Senator" -- was filled with prognostications about how the Web, wireless networks and electronic commerce would turn "consumers into big winners." 
 And the members of the Joint Economic Committee, led by Republicans, were so filled with praise for the Microsoft Corporation and its entrepreneurial ilk that they only once, and then only obliquely, raised the uncomfortable question of how antitrust laws were applied to the world's most powerful software company. Left unsaid, but understood, was that it is President Clinton's Justice Department that is pursuing Microsoft in court a few blocks away.
Indeed, the subtext of the three days of hearings, which began with the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, and continued today with Mr. Gates's appearance, is that Republicans are eager to get the Government off the valley's back. Certainly, many in Silicon Valley would be happy to see Microsoft have its hand slapped by the Government. But that did not stop heads from nodding today when Mr. Gates talked about how keeping "a light hand" on the regulation of technology industries "is working very, very well."
No sooner had he finished talking than the Senate voted to lighten the touch even more: Over the Administration's objections, it approved a bill that would limit the liability of high-technology companies for any damage from the Year 2000 computer bug. President Clinton has pledged to veto the legislation, a version of which has already been passed in the House, providing yet another wedge for Republicans who maintain that the White House is the valley's fair-weather friend.
"There are two things going on here," a Republican member of the committee said after today's hearings, asking not to be further identified. "There are real issues we'll have to deal with," among them hearings on Internet privacy, data encryption and support for basic research. "And there are questions of political funding. Which of those goes first? That will depend on how cynical you are."
Mr. Gates once reveled in an apolitical nature. Until a few years ago, Microsoft maintained only a small presence in Washington, eschewing professional lobbyists and suggesting that the importance of what happens in hearing rooms pales in comparison with what happens in software labs. Meanwhile, the Republican leadership, or at least those leaders without significant high-technology constituencies, largely ceded the territory to Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore.
But these days, they see an opportunity. Software makers are still haggling with the Administration, and Mr. Gore in particular, over rules limiting the export of programs that offer high-level encryption of data -- which American intelligence agencies fear will be exploited by potential enemies.
And at today's hearings, William L. Larson, the president of Network Associates Inc., described how the company is about to lose "a seven-figure deal" to provide such software to Chrysler, after its new parent, DaimlerChrysler, insisted on purchasing programs that could be shipped around the world. The business is likely to go to a German competitor, Mr. Larson said.
Others used the moment to lobby for an extension of the research and development tax break. Charles Vest, president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, warned against "growing complacency" about American high-technology superiority, and noting that Federal funds for basic research and development were declining. He said that at this point "the United States is living off of historical assets that are not being renewed." The Internet's origins lie in a system developed by the Pentagon and used for years, largely in obscurity, by academics.
But the big draw today was Mr. Gates, who received the gentlest of handling all around. There were no tough questions about charges that have arisen during the antitrust trial. In fact, there were no tough questions at all -- either from the Senators or from students who were asking questions, via an Internet link, from university and high school projects that Microsoft is backing.
While it was never discussed, the Republican-dominated panel was aware that Microsoft greatly increased its giving to political causes in the 1997 and 1998 election cycles, and the expectation is that the amounts could increase significantly for the Presidential election.
The company and its employees gave about $1.3 million in unregulated "soft money" over the last two years, putting them among the top dozen or so in this category.
It was listed as a "table sponsor" for the Republican Congressional Committee dinner last week. While tables sell for $25,000 -- relatively small stuff in the world of big contributors -- the move was viewed as a sign of things to come as Republicans seek to exploit Microsoft's unhappiness with its treatment by the Clinton Administration.
Microsoft has increased its permanent lobbying staff in Washington and has also reached out to some of the capital's longtime consultants. Among the lobbyists under contract is the former chairman of the Republican National Committee, Haley Barbour.
Roughly two-thirds of Microsoft's political spending already goes to Republicans, a figure that a senior employee at the company's Redmond, Wash., headquarters said "would probably come as a surprise to most Microsoft employees."
Mr. Gates did everything he could today to steer clear of controversy. He talked about forthcoming inventions that would help members of Congress in their work, including new types of portable digital devices that would help them "access your own 'digital dashboard' " even when they are out of Washington.
He banished from his vocabulary almost all his usual tech-speak, talking as if he was giving a speech to an interested but somewhat unsophisticated chamber of commerce.
Invited to give his views on the state of American antitrust laws, he said that "the laws as they are currently written are fine." The implication he left is that they are being wrongly interpreted in Microsoft's case. But he dodged specific mention of the litigation, other than to say "things like integration of new features are one of the freedoms companies have" under those laws.
Part of the Microsoft case hinges on the matter of whether the company is integrating its Internet browser into the Windows operating system in a way that undercuts the ability of competing browsers to operate.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: William H. Gates explaining a point yesterday to the Joint Economic Committee in Washington. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); VETO (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (76%); INTERNET PRIVACY (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (60%); CRYPTOLOGY (60%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); BILL GATES (90%); AL GORE (74%); ALAN GREENSPAN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



328 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

With Silicon Valley Bounty Comes Unease About Boom
In Silicon Valley, the nation's high-technology heartland, the good times have arrived in abundance and have stayed longer than ever before. Wage rates are about 60 percent above the national average and are growing far more quickly than average, and the trappings of wealth can be seen everywhere. 
 But the indicators of affluence have in turn led to a growing sense of unease among many valley longtimers who oscillate between a faith in what has been called the "long boom" and the knowledge that each of the valley's booms in the last half-century has inevitably been followed by a bust. Page A1.
 
G.O.P. Seeks Closer Ties to Valley
The Joint Economic Committee is conducting a three-day "High Tech Summit" on Capitol Hill in which the Republicans are trying to show that, compared with the Democrats, they have the capacity to be even better friends of William H. Gates and his competitors. C6.
 
Global Trading Takes Step Forward
The National Association of Securities Dealers took a big step toward the creation of an around-the-clock, global stock market with the announcement that it would join with Softbank to develop a version of its electronic Nasdaq Stock Market in Japan. Eventually, the two markets could together provide investors with the ability to trade for up to 21 hours a day, said Frank G. Zarb, chief executive of the N.A.S.D. C11.
 
Stocks Edge Up in Weak Trading
Stocks inched higher in thin trading in advance of the Consumer Price Index report, which will be released this morning. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 31.66 points, to 10,594.99. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 7.16 points, to 1,301.16, while the Nasdaq composite index rose 16.36 points, to 2,414.67. C14.
 
Politician Accused of Extortion
Foreign investors in the Far Eastern Shipping Company of Russia have accused a top politician of using extortion to try to wrest away their stakes in the concern, causing a shareholder rights scandal. C3.
 
Hong Kong Company Changes Name
Hong Kong's local telephone company, Hong Kong Telecommunications, said that it would change its name to Cable and Wireless HKT to tighten ties with its London-based parent company, Cable and Wireless. Linus Cheung, the chief executive of Hong Kong Telecom, said the new name was intended to convey the company's broader ambitions in Asia. C3.
 
Oracle Results Beat Expectations
Oracle reported fourth-quarter revenue and earnings that surpassed analysts' estimates and announced that it was laying off 325 employees to trim costs. C10.
 
Tensions Escalate Over Internet
In the latest sign of escalating tension between the Internet's new oversight board and Network Solutions, the company that controls the distribution and registration of Internet addresses, the board's interim chairwoman, Esther Dyson, said that the company was fostering unfounded criticism of her group. C11.
 
 
Some Tables Unavailable
The foreign stock table, active bond issues and agencies and zeros were not available for this edition because of computer problems.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,594.99 up 31.66
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.11% up 0.02
The Dollar -- 120.40 yen down 0.22
 
Graphs: "TODAY" show percent change in the consemer price index, housing construction and industrial production, from Nov. 1998 through April 1999. May figures due today.
 
Expected:
Consemer price index: +0.2%
Housing construction: +3.8%
Industrial production: +0.3%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (55%); FESH (RTS) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (64%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (64%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (90%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FAR EASTERN SHIPPING CO (64%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (55%); DVMP OAO (52%); CABLE & WIRELESS HKT LTD (51%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (90%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (88%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (87%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (84%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); COMPANY REVENUES (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); EXTORTION (66%); HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); COMPANY EARNINGS (63%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



329 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: Senate Approves Bill On Year 2000 Bug

 BODY:
After months of partisan squabbling, the Senate approved legislation that would limit lawsuits arising from Year 2000 computer failures. But the vote fell short of the two-thirds majority needed to override President Clinton's promised veto, which means further negotiations with the White House will be needed for the measure to become law. 
 The vote came as the Joint Economic Committee conducted a "High Tech Summit" in which Republicans tried to show that even more than the Democrats, they have Silicon Valley's best interests at heart.
Business Day, pages C1 and C6. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HIGH TECH ADVERTISING (57%); JOINT ECONOMIC COMMITTEE (56%); WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT ECONOMIC COMMITTEE (56%); WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LEGISLATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (88%); VETO (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); SUITS & CLAIMS (85%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



330 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: Treatment Rooted in Culture;
Tying Drug and Alcohol Programs to Immigrants' Backgrounds

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

 BODY:
For years, Mohammed Arif denied he had a drinking problem. He saw himself as an immigrant success story: he had mastered a new language, earned enough to support relatives back in his native Pakistan and fit right in when his fellow construction workers hit the bars at the end of the day.
"The thing about drinking was this false pride," Mr. Arif said, recalling the dark years when he failed to see how alcohol was corroding his new life. "There was all this finger-pointing in my family, and it would get me so mad. Why is everyone telling me I've got a drinking problem when it's me who's taking care of everybody?" 
 He eventually sought help, ricocheting from one detoxification program to another. It was not until he landed at Nav Nirmaan, the only New York City substance abuse treatment program run by and for immigrants from southern Asia, that he pulled himself and his family together.
"It made a big difference," said Mr. Arif, who now tells his story as a means of counseling other immigrants at the center, which is in Elmhurst, Queens. "When you're with people from your own background, your own culture, it's like there's no more curtain in front of your eyes."
Nav Nirmaan, which means "new beginning" in the Gujrathi language of western India, is at the vanguard of a growing trend in drug and alcohol treatment programs that not only provide counseling in the native language of immigrants, but also consider their particular cultural background and the traumas of the immigrant experience itself.
Immigrants arrive with specific cultural attitudes and family dynamics that influence how they respond to treatment. In a Russian family, for example, a teen-ager on drugs often listens more to a grandparent's guidance than a parent's. An Asian man arrested for drunken driving is more likely to let down his defenses and talk with a female therapist. And the therapy offered in mainstream drug abuse and alcoholism programs, counselors say, does not work for immigrants who fear or distrust authority figures, feel deep shame at revealing family problems to strangers and do not relate to their self-help jargon.
"Immigration and acculturation stress are very pronounced in immigrants," said Luis H. Zayas, a psychologist and professor of social work at Fordham University who has studied drinking patterns in Latin American immigrants. "But it's only recently that we have culturally adjusted treatment, as more clinicians become attuned to the impact of immigration."
Spanish-language social service groups proliferated in the mid-1980's, and there are now many substance-abuse centers with Spanish-speaking professional staff members. But there have been far fewer services adapted to the non-Hispanic immigrants who have poured into the New York City area in the last decade, bringing with them their own cultural idiosyncrasies and assumptions.
"Do we take treatments that exist and modify them, or do we have to create services that mirror the cultural aspects of the population we're treating?" Dr. Zayas said. "These are the questions we're asking. Not all of them are being answered, but they are being raised and addressed more and more."
Drug abuse prevention programs are getting similar attention. The White House Office of National Drug Control Policy has now recognized that an antidrug message aimed at American-born parents and their children may not make sense to immigrant families who do not even recognize drug slang.
Beginning next month, its new $185 million youth campaign will feature material in 11 languages tailored to Hispanic, Vietnamese, Korean and other cultures.
"The issue is not that they have greater drug use -- many of these groups have drug rates that are lower than whites," said Alan M. Levitt, the manager of the White House antidrug campaign. "It's just that for some of these audiences -- first generation immigrants, for example -- there is a whole different kind of information you have to supply."
That immigration is stressful, now and in the past, is obvious. For people who do not speak English, it means first and foremost the inability to communicate. Often, especially for those from the former Soviet Union and some Asians, it means a substantial loss of economic and social standing.
Female immigrants usually find work faster than the men, straining traditional family roles, because they are more willing to take low-status jobs. Children adjust to the new culture and learn English before their parents, giving them more independence and more adult-like responsibilities.
In short, psychologists say, what many people experience when they come to the United States is a tremendous sense of loss. Some immigrants try to cope by turning to drugs or alcohol.
"Usually, we hear the phrase 'I'm nobody here,' " said Helen V. Kagen, a social worker who created and runs a substance abuse program for Russian-speaking immigrants at the Educational Alliance in Manhattan. "People find themselves in a situation where they are not capable of doing anything."
She said the pressures are particularly debilitating to immigrants from the former Soviet Union, who are products of a culture that embraced drinking and a totalitarian system that undermined any sense of individuality.
Counselors who deal with Russian-speaking immigrants said they were also seeing serious drug use in youngsters, who experience both the exhilarating freedom and the burdens typical of immigrant children.
"The kids are under stress, even more than the adults," said Anna Snol, who counsels teen-agers in Brooklyn with her husband, Arkadiy, a former doctor in a Soviet prison camp for drug users. "They come here and everything is possible: sex freedom, work freedom, school freedom.
"They learn English and they know more than their parents. They begin to feel themselves heroes. They say to themselves, I see everybody smoking marijuana. Why not me?"
Problems arise when old habits combine with immigration stress, boredom and lack of knowledge about local laws.
"Drinking is so deeply rooted in the culture, especially with male identity," said Mina Chang, the director of the Asian American Mental Health Institute in Queens, who has created an alcohol treatment program for Korean immigrants. "The more you drink, the more you show you can control yourself and the more you are male."
She sees clients who are often working several jobs, who never drove a car back in Korea and do not understand what happens when they drive drunk, either in terms of the effect on their abilities or the risk of being arrested.
"I ask them, 'Why do you drink?' " Ms. Chang said, "and they say it's because they are bored."
For immigrants, as for anyone else, one family member's drinking problem can spawn other problems, like spouse and child abuse, and that is the behavior that often brings them forcibly into treatment.
"In our cultural makeup, the cry for help is the last stage," said Roy V. Tellis, the Indian-born executive director of Nav Nirmaan. "There's a lot of shame involved, and there's the isolation."
The typical Nav Nirmaan client, he said, is a man who lives in a cultural cocoon. He drinks as a form of socializing with other men from his home region, reads newspapers and watches television shows in his native language, and feels confusion and rage when his wife and Americanized children try to venture outside the tight circle of southern Asian culture.
"It is a male-dominated patriarchal society," Mr. Tellis said. "And the father says: I work hard, I put food on the table. So what if I take a few drinks?"
Understanding an immigrant's cultural background can also make a difference in finding the right treatment and the right tone.
"In Southeast Asian thinking, there is a respect for educated authority," Mr. Tellis said. "For them, there's no difference between a counselor, a therapist or a doctor. So if the therapist says, 'I want to see your wife,' they accept that."
Ms. Chang, who counsels Korean men with alcohol problems, said her clients open up and relax more when talking to a woman. "In their imagination, they are so much roughed up by the system and by the world that someone who appears to be soft helps them," she said.
An approach like that used in Alcoholics Anonymous, counselors said, rarely works with immigrants. People from the former Soviet Union, for example, often distrust not only their peers, but also people with authority.
"We are talking about an enormous level of resistance to outside persuasion, because all the messages, all the lies, in the totalitarian society were delivered by authority figures," said Dr. Kagen of the Educational Alliance.
And it is particularly difficult for those who lived in the Soviet system to admit they are alcoholics, a term that was reserved for those in the physically incapacitated late stages of the disease.
"In Russia, there is a difference between a drinker and an alcoholic," said Michael, one of Dr. Kagen's clients who spoke only on the condition that his last name not be published. "The drinker can stop. The alcoholic can't. So if you ask for help, it is admitting you're an alcoholic."
A 63-year-old former professor in Moscow, Michael started drinking heavily after he lost his first job in New York City and became homeless.
"When you sleep on a bench," he said, "it's not so bad when you drink, but it's impossible when you're sober."
Michael was sent to shelters, to hospitals and to detoxification programs. "They were nice and very professional," he recalled, "but all their experiences connect with American realities. Here, I don't have to explain a lot of things. They understand already."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Helen V. Kagen, above, created and runs a substance abuse program for Russian-speaking immigrants at the Educational Alliance in Manhattan. Mohammed Arif, left, now counsels other immigrants at the Nav Nirmaan center in Queens, which is run by and for Asian immigrants. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times); (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST INDIA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE OFFICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE OFFICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST INDIA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); FAMILY (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (78%); TRENDS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: MOHAMMED ARIF (70%); LUIS H ZAYAS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



331 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: DEPLOYMENT;
U.S. Offering Compromises On the Role of the Russians

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: GENEVA, June 15

 BODY:
In an effort to break an impasse over how Russian troops will operate in Kosovo, Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen is to suggest to his Russian counterpart that the troops be allotted an "area of responsibility" within one of the five established NATO sectors, Administration officials said today.
Mr. Cohen also plans to propose a command structure that he hopes will satisfy the Russians' demand that their troops not report directly to an allied commander, but will not violate NATO's insistence on a unified command for the entire security force, the officials said. 
 Mr. Cohen and his counterpart, Igor D. Sergeyev, are to meet in Helsinki on Wednesday.
Mr. Cohen is bringing two possible compromises on the sensitive issue.
The first is that the Russians report to a commander from a neutral, non-NATO country, like Sweden or Finland, an Administration official said. This commander would report to a more senior NATO officer.
The other possibility is that the Russians duplicate the pattern used in Bosnia, where Russian troops operate in the American sector and report to an American commander. He in turn reports to a Russian liaison officer at NATO headquarters.
The idea of involving Mr. Cohen and Mr. Sergeyev in the talks -- and moving the dispute away from diplomats -- came from the Russians, an Administration official said, after Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott and the Russian Foreign Minister, Igor S. Ivanov, failed to come to a solution over the weekend.
But on the eve of the defense secretaries' talks, senior NATO military commanders are concerned that the political need to keep good relations with Russia will interfere with the allies' military need to insure control over the peacekeeping troops.
The alliance will not be represented during the talks. Instead the Secretary General, Javier Solana, and the alliance's top military commander, Gen. Wesley K. Clark, will be kept informed by telephone.
"Remember, this is an Administration that prides itself on constructive engagement with Russia," a senior NATO official said today. "These Administration officials do not wish to acknowledge that Russian high officials have been stringing them along all week."
But Kenneth H. Bacon, the Pentagon spokesman, said: "It doesn't seem to me we're sweeping this under the rug -- quite the contrary. We are spending a lot of time and high-level energy and so are the Russians on this issue. That's a sign we want a solution that's good for the Russians and for NATO."
The standoff has touched a raw nerve in the Administration, not only because the surprise arrival of Russian troops at the airport in Pristina, the capital of Kosovo, robbed NATO of a grand entry into Kosovo.
The underlying concern, Administration officials assert, is that while Russian involvement is welcome, it is welcome on grounds that do not subvert two Administration goals: that there be no partition of Kosovo and that the allies maintain a unified command of all security forces.
In arguing that the Russians take an "area of responsibility" and the proposed command structure, Mr. Cohen will not cross the "red lines" of partition and unified command, Administration officials said.
The "area of responsibility" for Russia -- most likely in the north and thus most likely in the French zone, where there is the largest concentration of Serbian civilians -- would have a concentration of Russian troops but allied forces would be able to come and go, an official said.
The session in Helsinki comes as President Clinton arrives here for the start of a six-day European trip, including a meeting with President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia on Sunday in Cologne, Germany. The two Presidents have spoken on the phone three times in three days, a rare number of back-to-back calls and a measure of the volatility of the issue.
The Administration would like to have the Russian role settled by Sunday so the men can publicly embrace a deal at a summit meeting of the seven major industrial nations and Russia.
The Russians showed no signs today of leaving the Pristina airport; indeed, a convoy of 11 vehicles is en route from Bosnia to re-supply the approximately 200 Russians in Pristina with fuel and food.
But NATO officials said they were encouraged that this time the Russians requested permission from the NATO commanders in Bosnia to leave their posts and take the supplies. Last week, when the convoy of Russians left Bosnia for Kosovo, they did so without informing the commanders in Bosnia.
The unexpected fuss over the Russian troops was in part a price to be paid for the help that Moscow provided Washington in getting President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia to accept a withdrawal from Kosovo, allied officials said.
It is still unclear how high the price will be, or which faction in the Russian political elite will be decisive in reacting to Secretary Cohen's proposals.
But the Russians have always made it clear that their main objective in Kosovo is to protect the Serbs, an Administration official said.
The largest concentration of Serbs is in the north, the area monitored by the French. The British military control a sector centered on Pristina, and the Americans are operating a zone in the southeast. Germany and Italy are moving into two other sectors, in the south and west.
Another interest for the Russians, according to officials, is to protect what is left of the the economic interests of the Serbs in Kosovo. The Trepca smelting complex, which includes the Stari Trg lead and zinc mines, is in northern Kosovo.
By giving the Russians an area of responsibility inside a NATO-led zone, Administration officials argue, their presence should not deter the return of Albanian refugees. Many have told officials of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees that they would not go back to their homes if Russian troops were patrolling where they lived.
But in any area where a lot of Serbs are still living, the return of Albanians is unlikely anyway, one Administration official said.
It is also not clear how big the "area" for Russia would be. A realistic number of Russian soldiers for Kosovo is in the vicinity of "several thousand," so the area would have to be "decent sized," the official said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FINLAND (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FINLAND (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: JAVIER SOLANA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



332 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Senate Passes Bill to Curb Lawsuits From Year 2000 Bug

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15

 BODY:
After months of partisan squabbling, the Senate approved legislation today that would limit lawsuits arising from Year 2000 computer failures.
But the 62-to-37 vote fell short of the two-thirds majority needed to override President Clinton's promised veto, as did the vote in the House on a similar measure passed earlier. That means further negotiations with the White House will be needed for the measure to become law, as is considered likely. 
 The bill would place a ceiling of $250,000 on the punitive damages that could be assessed against companies with fewer than 50 employees and give all companies 90 days to solve Year 2000 computer problems before they could be held liable.
Most important for the large and wealthy computer companies, the legislation specifies that all the companies responsible for a computer failure would share the legal liability and that no company could be assessed damages greater than its proportional responsibility for a breakdown. This would prevent a wealthy company like Microsoft that was marginally at fault from bearing all the damages when smaller companies with fewer resources were mostly responsible for a breakdown.
What is called the Y2K problem results from the reliance of some computers on programs that use only the last two digits of years. Those that are not properly updated could misinterpret the year 2000 as 1900, causing the computers and electronically controlled machinery to fail.
While the specific legislation involves computers and the year 2000, the underlying politics reflects the longstanding division between business interests, which are the largest financial supporters of Republicans in Congress, and trial lawyers, who are among the biggest Democratic donors.
Both parties are also fishing for political support from the ocean of money in high-technology companies. Democrats, torn by the conflicting claims of trial lawyers and cyberspace magnates, insisted today that legislation would soon be enacted to protect the computer companies from unnecessary litigation.
Business lobbies like the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers have spent millions lobbying and advertising for the legislation. The Chamber of Commerce made the issue the organization's biggest legislative priority of the year.
In addition, big technology companies like Intel and Compaq Computer, as well as small ones from Silicon Valley, are working for the measure. "I cannot tell you the depth of passion that the high-tech industry feels for the bill in California," said Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, one of 12 Democrats who joined 50 Republicans in voting for the bill. Voting against it were 4 Republicans and 33 Democrats.
Opposing it, along with the trial lawyers, were many organizations that advocate consumer rights like the Consumer Federation of America and Public Citizen.
In the final debate, both sides painted horrific pictures of what would happen if they did not get their way.
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, the chief sponsor of the bill, reading from a prepared statement, said its purpose was to prevent "an avalanche of frivolous lawsuits" that could "stymie the economy."
"Litigation has become big business for a segment of the trial bar," he said. "That small group is eagerly anticipating the bonanza that Y2K problems present in litigation."
Without restraints, Senator McCain said, "the legal costs associated with Y2K will exceed that of asbestos, breast implants, tobacco and Superfund combined."
Leading the opponents was Senator Ernest F. Hollings, a Democrat of South Carolina who was a trial lawyer before going into politics and has long been the lawyers' champion in the Senate. "We're now going to legalize fraud," he asserted.
"This town loves lawyers -- office lawyers," said Senator Hollings, 77, one of the few remaining senators who always speaks extemporaneously, as old-timers did, rather than reading his floor speeches. But Republicans, he added, have made a political sport out of demonizing "working lawyers -- trial lawyers."
In fact, he said, in the United States business sets the standard for safe products, and the reason is fear of lawsuits over faulty products.
The House approved a similar bill last month, 236 to 190, also well shy of a two-thirds majority.
Now, representatives of the White House are likely to join negotiators from the Senate and House in the conference committee to work out the differences between the Senate and House versions of the legislation. A bill is likely to emerge before long, lawmakers said, that will satisfy most of President Clinton's objections.
These are among the President's objections:
*Hurdles intended to prevent frivolous lawsuits by companies would also apply to individuals, making it more difficult, for instance, for a person to collect legitimate damages if his house were burglarized after a computer problem caused his alarm system to fail.
*Class-action suits would be forced into Federal courts, where the rules are generally more favorable to defendants than in state courts.
*The proportional liability requirement could be burdensome to plaintiffs who could not afford multiple lawsuits.
After the vote, Senator McCain seemed prepared to make concessions. "We will do what we can to avoid a Presidential veto of this important legislation," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (55%); INTEL CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (94%); LEGISLATION (92%); APPROVALS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); LAWYERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DAMAGES (78%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (78%); POLITICS (78%); VETO (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



333 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: House Votes to Keep Limits on Number of Flights Into Kennedy and La Guardia

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15

 BODY:
The House voted today to preserve limits on how many large commercial jets can fly into Kennedy International and La Guardia Airports every day, although, under the bill, small jets from small airports would fly in without restrictions beginning next March.
The bill would also begin phasing out the system of limits, called the "slot rule," at the only other airports that have them, O'Hare in Chicago and Reagan National in Washington. 
 But the significance of the provisions is uncertain, because immediately after the bill was passed, the Transportation Secretary, Rodney E. Slater, said that it should be vetoed because it authorizes too much spending and goes outside the normal budget process. And the Senate is working on a bill that would remove some slot rules faster, as a spur to airline competition.
The provisions for Kennedy and La Guardia were a compromise between legislators with districts near the airports who say they want to delay extra noise and congestion, and those from upstate New York and elsewhere who say they face monopoly ticket pricing so severe that it stunts their economic growth.
The chairman of the House Transportation Committee, Bud Shuster, Republican of Pennsylvania, helped arrange the compromise to round up extra votes for the bill, an authorization measure he is backing because it allows higher transportation spending. It calls for spending $57.4 billion over five years, or $14 billion more than in the Congressional budget resolution, which is Congress's overall spending plan.
Some House Republicans opposed the bill because it would authorize more money for transportation than they agreed to when they outlined the entire budget, and could reduce the amount available for a tax cut.
But Mr. Shuster is trying to spend extra money by reducing the accumulation of funds in dedicated trust funds, like ticket taxes in the aviation trust fund.
"It is morally wrong to say we're going to take that $14.3 billion that's in the Aviation Trust Fund, and use it, give it away, as part of a general tax cut," he said.
The bill would also allow airports to double the Passenger Facility Charge, now $3 per flight, to pay for airport improvements.
The slot-rule amendment passed on a voice vote. The underlying bill passed by a 316-to-110 vote.
While the significance of the vote on slot rules in New York was uncertain, members of the New York delegation were quick to claim it as a major victory.
"We buy some time here for our communities," said Gary L. Ackerman, a Queens Democrat, in an interview. "That's a critical thing, a quality of life issue." By 2007, he said, the Federal Aviation Administration may have a requirement on the books for quieter planes.
But members of Congress from upstate said that when all the slots are assigned to major airlines, they can prevent competitors from entering, thus strangling competition. Louise M. Slaughter, a Democrat of Rochester, said in debate that round-trip fare from there to Chicago was $1,267. "If you live in an area where air fares are reasonable, the people of Rochester, New York, are helping to subsidize that," she said.
Under an amendment backed by Mr. Shuster, jets of 70 seats and under could fly in without restrictions as of March 1 if they were coming from "a small hub or nonhub airport," which backers said would include Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse and Albany. Bigger planes or planes from bigger airports would be limited until Jan. 1, 2007.
It was not clear, however, how many planes were in each category. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which runs the airports, said it could not predict.
Joseph Crowley, Democrat of Queens, another backer of the compromise, said that under the small-jet rule, La Guardia might get another dozen flights a day, and Kennedy somewhat fewer.
The Transportation Department said in a 1995 study that Kennedy would get 29 additional landings or takeoffs between 3 P.M. and midnight if slot rules were lifted, which would represent a 5 percent increase, and that La Guardia would get 70 additional landings or takeoffs between 7 A.M. and midnight, an increase of 6.9 percent. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL (90%); NEW YORK JETS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AIRPORTS (93%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AIRLINES (89%); AIR SERVICE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (87%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (86%); TAX RELIEF (86%); TICKET SALES (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); 

PERSON: GARY L ACKERMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



334 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Jobless Rate Up to 4.7% In May;11-Month High

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
The unemployment rate in New Jersey rose to 4.7 percent in May, the highest level in almost a year, state labor officials said yesterday.
The figures for May, the most recent available, show an increase of two-tenths of 1 percent over the rates for both March and April and mark the highest level of unemployment since last June, according to a study by the Labor Department. The state figures are also higher than the 4.5 percent national unemployment rate for May, the study found. 
 Although the unemployment rate rose, New Jersey employers continued to produce more jobs, adding 5,300 to payrolls in May, according to the study. If job growth continues at the same rate, 64,500 jobs will be created by the end of the year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



335 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: NOTEBOOK;
Year of the Donation

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POLLAK

 BODY:
Buoyed by the stock market and sustained economic growth, private donors gave a record $18.4 billion to American colleges and universities in the 1998 academic year, according to the Council for Aid to Education.
The annual increase of 13 percent, adjusted for inflation, far outstripped the 2.2 percent rise in spending, reports the council, a nonprofit subsidiary of the Rand Corporation. 
 Another factor elevating donors' generosity is their aging, David R. Morgan, the council's vice president for research and director of the study, said last week. As the elderly population grows, deferred giving as part of estate planning can become more attractive, he explained.
Not all institutions shared equally; Mr. Morgan noted that one-third of private liberal-arts colleges saw their gift income fall in 1998, although in some cases that was coming off a banner year in 1997. And private contributions to public colleges surveyed in the report fell last year, although Mr. Morgan added that the economy had allowed public higher education budgets to rise.
During good times, he said, colleges can become lulled into feeling that the record gifts will continue. "Of course, they never do," he said. MICHAEL POLLAK 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (72%); COUNCIL FOR AID TO EDUCATION (84%); COUNCIL FOR AID TO EDUCATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL FOR AID TO EDUCATION (84%); COUNCIL FOR AID TO EDUCATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); AGING TRENDS (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); AGING (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); ESTATE PLANNING (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); 

PERSON: DAVID R MORGAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



336 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section F;Page 1;Column 1;Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk

LENGTH: 2158 words

HEADLINE: To Dine, Not Just Eat, for $10

BYLINE: By ERIC ASIMOV

 BODY:
TO visit El Fogon on a Saturday afternoon is to see East Harlem pass before your eyes. Politicians, musicians, writers and athletes descend on this tiny Puerto Rican restaurant just west of Third Avenue, exchanging jokes and gossip with Felipe Colon, the dapper co-owner, whose sole concession to the June heat is to shed his beret and ascot.
But it's not just the good talk that draws the crowd. It's the wonderful food, the fried yellow plantains stuffed with beef and green beans, or the tangy codfish stew with eggplant. For a huge serving of either dish, which come with plump red beans, rice and perhaps fried sweet plantains, El Fogon charges the absurdly low price of $6. 
 In these days of $5 coffees, $12 hamburgers and $35 bowls of soup, extraordinary yet inexpensive places like El Fogon can still be found in Manhattan, providing welcome relief from the outrageous prices that even many mediocre restaurants routinely charge. At this small core of restaurants, great food and a generous spirit take precedence over the bottom line. For no more than $10, these places will serve a great main course and often a side dish or two, usually in such quantity that you'll never wish for dessert. And unlike restaurants that are primarily concerned with getting you in and out, most of these places welcome you as if you were in their homes.
The people who run them are passionately serious about their food, as much as any four-star chef. Ask Habib Belkadi, the owner of Habib's Place in the East Village, how he makes what is possibly the best couscous in the city, and he'll offer a sermon worthy of a revival tent on the proper Moroccan way of steaming the grain.
Charles Gabriel, of Charles's Southern-Style Kitchen in Harlem, is perhaps not as eager to talk about his methods for making sensational fried chicken. But one look at the huge blackened iron skillets he uses, and one taste of his cooking, and you know you're in the presence of an artist.
How do they keep prices so low?
Real estate, for one thing. Most of these restaurants are in less prosperous neighborhoods, far off the expense account trail. You're not likely to see limos idling outside these places in Harlem, Clinton and the East Village, unless somebody outside the neighborhood has found out about the place and rushed in for a bite to remember.
Creature comforts are low (lawn furniture, rather than leather club chairs, plastic tablecloths, not linen), and staffing is minimal. Yet an overwhelming aura of pride and warmth makes these places enjoyable. You don't mind placing your own order at the counter of Krik Krak, a Haitian restaurant on the Upper West Side, for example, because the food will be great and plentiful. A wine list would be a surprise, and while you can bring your own bottle to most of them, you may have to bring your own corkscrew.
The cost of food is not high, because these are not luxury ingredients. At Los Dos Rancheros Mexicanos on Ninth Avenue, turning rough cuts of pork into savory tacos wrapped in soft corn tortillas requires a different sort of artistry than matching foie gras with Sauternes. Markups are low, which means these restaurants rely on a high volume of business, and since they are mostly neighborhood restaurants, many have become hangouts integral to the life of the community.
Mr. Belkadi is more than just the owner and chef of Habib's Place. He knows almost everybody who comes in, he accepts packages for neighbors and serves meals on credit if customers are short of money. He is a particular favorite of musicians and is a jazz lover himself. Habib's may be the only Middle Eastern restaurant in New York decorated with photographs of Louis Armstrong and Miles Davis, Thelonious Monk and Charlie Parker.
"You have to give the neighborhood something worthwhile," Mr. Colon of El Fogon said. "Sometimes, we like to give a little extra snack, offer some pickled green bananas or some baked sweet potatoes."
These 10 restaurants are not the only inexpensive gems in Manhattan. Far from it. You could have a meal of sublime roast pork at 69 Mott Street in Chinatown or a fabulous lunch from the curried chicken vendor who parks daily on 43d Street, east of Avenue of the Americas.
Even at some more expensive restaurants, you can find great deals for under $10, like the juicy Yucatan-style rotisserie chicken at Gabriela's on the Upper West Side, or the red-cooked pork with chestnuts at Grand Sichuan International in Chelsea. But these are my 10 favorites for under $10, all the time.
CHARLES'S SOUTHERN-STYLE KITCHEN , 2841 Frederick Douglass Boulevard (151st Street), (212) 926-4313.
Charles Gabriel produces amazing fried chicken with crisp, nutty crusts. But that is by no means the limit to his artistry. His salmon cakes are light, crisp and flavorful, his oxtails come in a wonderful oniony brown gravy and his pork ribs are sweet, tender and meaty. In typical Southern style, main courses each come with two sides, like smoky collard greens, yams as sweet as honey and crisp-edged macaroni and cheese. Mr. Gabriel's operation has two sections: a takeout counter and a dining room, where the all-you-can-eat buffet is a mere $8.69 nightly. If you hanker for a particular dish, it's best to call in advance; Mr. Gabriel does not make everything all the time.
CHEZ GNAGNA KOTY'S , 530 Ninth Avenue (39th Street), (212) 279-1755.
Gnagna Diene, the chef and owner of this friendly West African storefront, serves hearty, rich Senegalese stews in portions that are almost impossible to finish in one sitting. Chicken yassa ($8) is a terrific dish of grilled chicken in a piquant sauce of lemon, mustard and onions that is great spooned over the side of fluffy white rice. I also like the thiebu djen ($7.95), the Senegalese national dish better known as cheb, made with a firm white-fleshed fish stuffed with green onions and herbs and served over rice stained red by earthy palm oil, a West African staple. The rice and fish are then topped with cabbage, manioc, tomato and carrots. Ms. Diene and her assistants are warm and eager to answer questions.
EL FOGON , 83 East 111th Street, (212) 426-4844.
The Puerto Rican specialties are fabulous at this friendly neighborhood hangout. Felipe Colon, the co-owner, will hold you in an extended handshake as he gives you a guided tour of the photographs lining the walls: salsa greats, heroes of the Puerto Rican independence movement and compadres from Mr. Colon's beloved stickball games. His partner, Maria Elena Velez, who does the cooking, generally offers two main courses each day, and they are always interesting. Her corned beef is ground fine and served in a rich sauce with olives, squash, peppers and onions, enhancing its briny, smoky flavor, while her roasted pork is moist and garlicky and her chicken fricassee is a beautifully flavored stew. Each dish ($6) comes with white rice and plump red beans, and if for some reason you don't want the specials, she can always offer pork chops or steak. For an extra $1, try a remarkably light, flaky and crisp pastelillo, the Puerto Rican version of empanadas, stuffed with beef, pork or whatever inspired Ms. Velez that day.
FLOR'S KITCHEN , 149 First Avenue (Ninth Street), (212) 387-8949. Flor Villazan, the owner and chef of this little Venezuelan storefront in the East Village, traces many of her recipes back to her grandmother in Caracas, and the restaurant itself has an almost maternal glow to it. In the rear, you can sometimes see a woman shaping dough to make the smooth, crisp empanadas ($1.50 to $2.75), with stuffings like savory shredded beef or pureed chicken. Or you can see her scraping corn off a cob to make arepas ($2 to $3.25), corncakes with excellent stuffings like chicken and avocado salad, or cachapas ($4 to $4.50), loosely knit corn pancakes. Soups like chupe ($4), chicken broth with potatoes, hominy and herbs, are wonderful, as is grilled kingfish ($8.50) with rice and plantains. Almost everything tastes better with a liberal dose of guasacaca, a lively sauce of avocado, lemon juice and olive oil.
HABIB'S PLACE , 438 East Ninth Street, (212) 979-2243.
Sometimes, it seems, Habib Belkadi knows everybody who comes into his small restaurant in the East Village. But it's not what they do that is interesting, it's what Mr. Belkadi does. His couscous ($8.50) is twice-steamed, and has a rich, almost buttery flavor. Though each grain retains its integrity, it melds successfully into a whole. The generous servings come with plenty of steamed carrots, potatoes, onions and squash, and a few pieces of thoroughly tender, delicious lamb. For some spice, Mr. Belkadi offers a cup of his own fiery harissa. You can quench the flame with mint tea served in glasses. If Mr. Belkadi's sister is in town, he will feature her own Western desserts, like intensely rich chocolate walnut pie.
JOHN'S PIZZERIA , 278 Bleecker Street (Jones Street), (212) 243-1680.
What would a list of inexpensive New York restaurants be worth if it did not include a classic New York-style pizzeria? In Manhattan, John's Pizzeria is synonymous with great thin-crust pizza, which is generally cooked in intensely hot coal ovens, allowing it to achieve the signature smoky, charred crispness of the crust. With its famous warning -- "No Slices!" -- and its contentious waiters who fling the pies to the worn wood tables, John's is a notoriously grumpy place. Newer branches of John's are scattered around Manhattan and have sunnier dispositions, but their pizzas never quite achieve the flavor of the original, which is run by Pete Castellotti and Bob Vittoria, grand-nephews of the founder, John Sasso.
John's is not necessarily the best pizza in town, but it is the most consistently good and a marvel of economy. There is no excess sauce, just the right amount of mellow mozzarella and the whole is a perfect combination of flavor, texture and regard for tradition. A large pie costs $11 and feeds at least two.
KRIK KRAK , 844 Amsterdam Avenue (101st Street), (212) 222-3100.
This bright little storefront adorned with colorful Haitian art specializes in Haitian cuisine. Some dishes are served daily, like griot limbe ($7), small chunks of mellow pork marinated in garlic, lemon and spices, boiled and then fried until crisp. Other dishes are served occasionally, like poulet maison ($8), small pieces of chicken on the bone served in a fiercely hot sauce. Portions are stupendously large and come with equally large servings of hauntingly good rice and beans. I've always been teased by a listing for Haitian cake on the menu, but Nadine Arche, the owner, says it's always sold out. "Keep trying," she says.
LOS DOS RANCHEROS MEXICANOS , 507 Ninth Avenue (38th Street), (212) 868-7780.
The improvement of Mexican food in New York over the last 10 years is striking, and from the wonderful tacos to the deeply flavored main courses, the welcome difference is on display at this bright, airy restaurant in Clinton. Pipian con pollo ($7), tender pieces of chicken in a spicy green sauce made with tomatillos, chilies and toasted pumpkin seeds, is notable for the vivid flavors that seem to ricochet from one end of the mouth to the other, while pollo con mole poblano ($7) offers this more familiar sauce at its chocolatey, smoky best.
MAMA'S FOOD SHOP , 200 East Third Street (Avenue B), (212) 777-4425.
This little self-serve restaurant with just a few tables, offers homey American dishes that are the equivalent of white picket fences and shady elm trees. Savory meatloaf, roast chicken and fried chicken ($6 each) are all fine, but the vegetables (available with main courses at $5 a pint) are unbelievably good. Brussels sprouts are flavored with garlic and charred, while carrots and beets are sliced thin and roasted until they are bursting with sweetness. Sweet potatoes are caramelized and mashed potatoes are simply wonderful. Mama won't have to tell you twice to eat your vegetables. Desserts like fruit cobbler and banana cream pie are predictably gooey, gloppy and delicious.
PEPE VERDE TO GO , 559 Hudson Street (Perry Street), (212) 255-2221.
Though it's mostly a takeout operation, Pepe Verde to Go has a warm little dining room with brick walls, a wood floor and a worn old green couch. If you order by phone, you'll miss the aroma of fresh bread, olive oil and ripe tomatoes that permeates the little room, and the alluring sight of loaves stacked on shelves and peppers soaking in oil. Pastas are terrific and never oversauced, like fusilli with broccoli rape and crumbled fennel sausage, or ravioli with butter and herbs. Boneless sauteed chicken breasts that have been bathed in herbs and marinated in lemon come with a mammoth serving of rice mixed with roasted peppers, broccoli, mushrooms and tomato ($6.95). And Pepe's sandwiches, especially air-cured beef on focaccia with arugula and Parmesan ($5.95), are exceptional.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 18, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Dining section on Wednesday about Manhattan restaurants that serve outstanding dishes for less than $10 misstated the address of El Fogon. It is at 183 East 111th Street, not No. 83.

GRAPHIC: Photos: $7 LOS DOS RANCHEROS MEXICANOS -- Pipian con pollo Tender pieces of chicken in a spicy green sauce, with rice and beans. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. F1); $8.69 CHARLES'S SOUTHERN STYLE KITCHEN -- All-you-can-eat buffet. $6 EL FOGON -- Codfish stew with eggplant. $8.50 HABIB'S PLACE -- Couscous with lamb. $8.50 FLOR'S KITCHEN -- Grilled kingfish. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. F11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EL FOGON (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: EL FOGON (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



337 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 26;Column 1;National Desk

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Bush Draws Donations, And Conservatives' Fire

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN

DATELINE: GREENWICH, Conn., June 15

 BODY:
George W. Bush, the man in the monogrammed cowboy boots, reconnected tonight with the Yankee roots he so often plays down, at the end of a day on which his rivals for the Republican Presidential nomination gave him his harshest taste yet of the political perils that lie along the campaign trail.
On the final stop of his first campaign swing, Mr. Bush was showered with $1.3 million at a dinner crowning him the adopted favorite son of Greenwich, which considers itself ground zero for Bushes although the candidate himself has never lived here. 
 The instant embrace by a crowd of more than 1,000, few of whom had ever met the Texas Governor but almost all of whom revere his parents, seemed fitting for a campaign so mysteriously turbocharged that even Mr. Bush himself claims not to understand the engine driving it.
But on Day 4 of his road show, conservative opponents rose up to criticize him for a comment he made in New Hampshire on Monday about prospective judicial appointees in a Bush administration. Mr. Bush said then that he would nominate judicial conservatives to the Federal courts but would not require them to share his views on specific issues, including abortion.
"There will be no litmus test," he said, "except for whether or not the judges will strictly interpret the Constitution."
In the past, Mr. Bush has voiced a general opposition to abortion while acknowledging the constitutional right to it found by the Supreme Court. He has also expressed a preference for changing people's minds on the issue rather than changing the law. The distinction appears to be an important part of Mr. Bush's strategy of projecting conservative values while trying not to alienate his party's moderate wing, including voters who support abortion rights.
In any event, his latest remarks on the matter brought fire from his closest challenger, Elizabeth Dole, who said through her spokesman, Ari Fleischer, that any Federal judge she appointed would have to share her "general philosophy" of opposition to abortion except in the cases of rape, incest or pregnancy that endangered a woman's life.
Two other rivals, Patrick J. Buchanan and Senator Robert C. Smith of New Hampshire, were much blunter.
"Governor Bush's response is grossly inadequate," Mr. Buchanan said from Manchester, N.H. "After 40 years of liberal judicial activism, we must have Supreme Court nominees dedicated to overturning the abomination called Roe v. Wade."
And Mr. Smith said Mr. Bush was trying to "have it both ways," posing as an abortion foe while allowing the possibility that his judicial nominees would hold a different view.
All this, along with similar criticism from other challengers, was a preview of the whiplash Mr. Bush can expect as he greets huge and largely unskeptical crowds at the same time that his rivals are firing at the same target -- him.
Here at the Hyatt Regency for the dinner tonight, some eager but tardy supporters turned blue bloods into scalpers, beseeching dinner organizers for the right to pay for the seats of people who had bought tickets but could not attend. "People were desperate," said a longtime family friend, Betsy Heminway
As much as Greenwich is money country, it is Bush country. Mr. Bush's grandfather, Prescott S. Bush, was Moderator of the Greenwich Representative Town Meeting before becoming a United States Senator from Connecticut. The Greenwich establishment has also fancied this the "favorite hometown" of the Governor's father, former President George Bush, even though he was born in Massachusetts, summered in Maine and kept his official address at a hotel in Houston.
From the time he campaigned for Governor in 1994, one of Mr. Bush's stock lines has been that the fundamental difference between the two George Bushes is that his father went to Country Day School in Greenwich, where people want to know who your parents are, and he went to Sam Houston Elementary School in Midland, Tex., where the children wanted to know if he could hit a ball.
In other tellings, he mentions San Jacinto Junior High in Midland. Either way, the tale does not take into account his later stops at Phillips Academy, Yale University and Harvard Business School. Although his campaign Web site finds space for the names of his dog and his three cats, it omits mention of his birthplace: New Haven, where his father was studying economics at Yale.
Tonight organizers acknowledged Mr. Bush's new life with a "Star of Texas" theme that added fruit salsa and lemon-sage sauce to the roast breast of chicken, and pink grapefruit to the green salad. Larger donors were listed on tonight's program as "Longhorns," while the next category down was "Lonestars."
People here professed not to be worried about what they, and the country, did not know of Mr. Bush and his positions on issues.
Asked about his foreign policy experience, Natalie T. Pray, a former diplomatic officer who has known the family for 30 years, gave him credit for "living in an area bordering Mexico."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 18, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about Gov. George W. Bush's Presidential campaign referred imprecisely to a response by Elizabeth Dole to his comments about who should be appointed to judgeships. After Mr. Bush said that opposition to abortion would not be a litmus test for judicial nominees if he became President, a spokesman for Mrs. Dole said her appointees would have to share her "general philosophy." The spokesman explained that although Mrs. Dole opposed abortion except in cases of incest, rape or danger to the pregnant woman's life, the candidate had not specifically cited abortion as an issue on which she and an appointee would have to agree.
The article also referred incorrectly to Mrs. Dole's attitude toward Mr. Bush's stance. Her spokesman said Mrs. Dole did not criticize Mr. Bush's position, but agreed with it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: On his first Presidential campaign swing, Gov. George W. Bush greeted supporters yesterday morning at a restaurant in Derry, N.H. Later in the day, he drew criticism for his stand on abortion and judicial appointees. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. CONSERVATISM (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ABORTION (89%); SUPREME COURTS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); JUDGES (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ELIZABETH DOLE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



338 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 2;Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: Boom Mind-Set Deeply Etched in Chip Capital

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif., June 14

 BODY:
In Silicon Valley these are the days of miracles and wonder.
In the midst of the longest sustained boom in the nation's high-technology heartland, there is a palpable air of unreality that has come to color the outlook of the computer engineers, venture capitalists and software hackers who make up the valley's rank and file. 
 Wage rates in the region are about 60 percent above the national average and are growing far more quickly than average. Driven by the vast new wealth created by a wave of Internet-related start-up companies and the increasingly vast inflows of venture capital, good times have arrived in abundance and have stayed longer than ever before.
The good times have led so many valley workers to sports car showrooms that Raymond Lane, the president of Oracle, the giant data base company, complained recently that he could not find the new Porsche he wanted in Northern California; one local dealership had a six-month waiting list. (He ordered one from a Southern California dealer through the Internet.)
And in meetings at power breakfast spots here like Il Fornaio or Bucks in Woodside, executives shake their heads over stories such as the one about the home in a comfortable Palo Alto neighborhood that sold in April for $1 million more than the $2.4 million asking price.
But indicators like those have in turn led to a growing sense of unease among many valley longtimers who oscillate between a faith in what has been called the "long boom" and the knowledge that each of the valley's booms in the last half-century has inevitably been followed by a bust.
"The valley is now divided into two camps," said John Shoch, a partner at Alloy Ventures, a venture capital firm based in Palo Alto. "There are those people who are firmly inside a reality-distortion field and there are the rest of us who realize that this is going to end but who can't help going along for the ride."
The talk at the restaurants and sports clubs is frequently of the power of "Yahoo dollars" or "Weimar currencies," the fruits of a stock market that seems to have a bottomless appetite for Internet start-ups.
In fact, stock certificates have in many ways become the currency of the valley -- to such an extent that the Menlo Park Presbyterian Church receives more than 10 percent of its contributions in stock instead of money. And St. Joseph's, a Roman Catholic school in Atherton, devotes part of its endowment to its own venture capital fund.
While the surging stock values have allowed companies to attract the best and brightest employees and acquire other companies, there is also a growing perception that the excesses of the boom may have permanently undermined the valley's traditional no-nonsense, engineering-driven culture.
At the Palo Alto office of R. R. Donnelley, the printing company that publishes the documents known as red herrings that are a key part of the rite of going public, the valet parking, the pool table and the cigars in a thermidor occasion more than one raised eyebrow.
And such is the cash rattling around that an editor at the high-speed Internet service At Home recently purchased a new $625,000 home on his debit card.
Indeed, one consensus is that this unrivaled wealth creation has led to a stock market bubble that will certainly end, but nobody knows when or how. "There are some people who are making the case that the Internet has changed the law of physics," said Fred Hoar, a longtime Silicon Valley publicist. "But this is still a Newtonian world, and when you throw something up in this world, it's going to come down."
One thing that has made this boom so unusual is that it has gone on for so long. It has been more than six years since the valley has seen tough times, a fact that has caused memories here to grow hazy and has led some longtimers here to look for ways to cling to a past that seems increasingly distant.
Roger McNamee, a fund manager at Interval Partners in Menlo Park, has followed the valley's ups and downs since the beginning of the PC era. Now he points across a parking lot at his Toyota Camry, a modest car contrasting with the more typical turbo-charged luxury cars. He says he hangs onto the car as a touchstone to a world he is in danger of losing contact with.
Economists and researchers who are trying to understand the apparent disappearance of the valley's decades-old boom-and-bust cycle point to the convergence of two separate trends that set the economy into a sustained period of overdrive.
The semiconductor industry, long the bedrock of Silicon Valley, was just beginning to recover in 1993 when the demand for Internet communications gear started its rapid acceleration. Then in 1995 the Web economy kicked in, creating a remarkable business spiral.
Yet, although there have been booms before, this one has altered the valley in ways that many of the region's longtimers regret. And not without reason: only 38.2 percent of the valley's homes, for example, are affordable to those making the median income, compared with 65 percent nationally, according to the National Association of Home Builders.
"People who are inclined to make money fast are flocking here," said Garth Hardwood, an environmental researcher who grew up in Menlo Park but has moved to the coastal village of Pescadero to escape the valley scene. "It's hard to grasp what's going on -- it's so big and fast, and people are so aggressive."
Even within the industries that gave Silicon Valley its name, some lament what the boom mind-set has done to the valley's entrepreneurial culture. "It is a corrosive effect on the valley parallel to Wall Street in the mid-1980's," said Eric Schmidt, who was the chief technology officer at Sun Microsystems before decamping to Utah two years ago as president and chief executive of Novell.
"The level of expectation is well beyond the norm, even in Silicon Valley," he added. "People have very short attention spans when it comes to their careers. It is a youth phenomenon, a new generation of entrepreneurs who have not had to concentrate on building institutions that endure. Moreover, the venture industry has no longer had to build a long-term business. The corrosive effect is in creating a short-term versus long-term way of thinking."
And the wild successes of Stanford students like Jerry Yang of Yahoo or Joe Kraus of Excite have now made it common for graduates to choose Silicon Valley start-ups first.
"Today 75 percent of my students are joining emerging companies," said John Hennessey, the dean of the school of engineering at Stanford University.
That is a sharp turn from the days when the normal career meant joining an established high-technology company like Hewlett-Packard.
"You've got this funny psychology in which the reality and the unreality coexist," said Michael Borrus, a managing director at Petkovich & Partners, a San Francisco investment firm. "These kids really believe they're going to get wealthy and this youthful optimism is overriding the fact that maybe 9 out of 10 of them won't have an I.P.O. in their lifetime."
It is, however, an economy in which several waves of new workers have never known anything but explosive growth.
"In the semiconductor industry, we've known historically that every four years we get hit cross the lip," said Mr. Hoar, the publicist, who was an early employee at Fairchild Semiconductor, a pioneering chip maker. "There is one group that has seen it all and they have the scars. On the other hand you have this group that says, 'Every breath I take is golden.' " That latter view rankles some valley pioneers like Andrew Grove, a founder of Intel, and Steven P. Jobs, Apple Computer's co-founder.
Mr. Grove said that only recently had he begun to hear the phrase "exit strategy" -- do we want to be acquired or aim to go public? -- which is now routinely part of the planning for start-up ventures that have yet to sell their first product.
"This is not reality," Mr. Jobs said. When Apple started, he said, his role models were William Hewlett and David Packard, who set out to build an institution rather than an overnight gold mine.
And ignoring that reality will ultimately bring its own reckoning, Mr. Hoar said. "There is one chapter that keeps repeating itself in this valley, and that's Chapter 11," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 21, 1999, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Wednesday showing economic trends in Santa Clara County, Calif., credited a data source incorrectly. It was the VentureOne Corporation, not Venture One Economics.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sports cars are in such short supply in Silicon Valley that Raymond Lane, Oracle's chief executive, had to use the Internet to get a Porsche. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C6)
 
Graphs: "Boom County"
Riding the Internet wave and an infusion of high-technology investment, Santa Clara County (which includes most of Silicon Valley) has outpaced the nation in the current economic expansion. Graphs plot investment in Silicon Valley, from 1993 through 1999, average yearly wages for Santa Clara County and the entire U.S., from 1980 through 1998, national average unemployment rate vs. the unemployment rate for Santa Clara County, from 1998 through 1999 and median prices of existing homes, in 1999 dollars, for Santa Clara County and the U.S., from 1989 through 1999.
 
(Sources: Collaborative Economics (wages, unemployment and home prices); California Association of Realtors (median home prices); Venture One Economics (venture capital); Center for the Continuing Study of the California Economy (wages); Haver Analytics (home prices); Bloomberg Financial Markets (unemployment))(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (99%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (99%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); CALIFORNIA ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); CALIFORNIA ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (99%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (99%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); STARTUPS (77%); ENGINEERING (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); RELIGION (69%); RESTAURANTS (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999



339 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Optimism About Jobs

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your June 13 Week in Review article on the reduction of unemployment rates among the various categories of the jobless neglects the impact of a rising imprisonment rate, which has more than doubled since 1985. Imprisonment for young minority-group males, who make up the bulk of the underclass, has increased nearly sixfold since the economic boom of the 1960's. If the 1.8 million people in American prisons and jails were counted, male unemployment would increase by two percentage points. 
 While you conclude with the sanguine view that young black men and single mothers respond well to tight labor markets, we must consider the other side of the business cycle: the psychological and material impact the next recession will have in dashed expectations and diminished welfare supports.
 
ROBERT P. WEISS
Plattsburgh, N.Y., June 14, 1999
The writer is a professor of sociology and criminal justice, State University of New York at Plattsburgh. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; MEN; MINORITIES (US); UNEMPLOYMENT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RECESSION (88%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); MEN (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (53%); 

PERSON: WEISS, ROBERT P (PROF) ROBERT P WEISS PLATTSBURGH (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



340 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Journal;
A Sexy Economic Feud of No Interest to the I.M.F.

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 16

 BODY:
In the northwest of Tokyo is an area of a dozen square blocks that wakes up at noon and parties till dawn, where gamblers and gangsters run rings around the police, where prostitutes and strippers undress for success, where curses and quarrels are in Chinese.
The area is Kabukicho, Japan's largest "entertainment zone," as it is politely called, and these days it is a reflection of Japan's troubles in competing with China and other Asian countries. 
 For the same reasons that Nissan and Hitachi are in trouble -- high labor costs and inflexible management -- the bars and brothels of Kabukicho are passing into Chinese hands. Even the yakuza, the Japanese gangsters who see themselves as the toughest businessmen, are being driven out by shrewder and more ruthless Chinese gangs.
"Our biggest problem is the rise of the Chinese mafia," one yakuza lamented. "The Chinese gangs are taking business from us in every area -- in prostitution, in gambling, in fencing stolen goods."
"The difference between us is that Japanese yakuza think of long-term business relationships, but the Chinese mafia thinks just of the short term," he added, in a remark strangely reminiscent of what Japanese industrialists often say. "Their only goal is money, money, money."
Still bickering and distrustful because of the legacy of World War II, Japan and China compete for markets and influence around Asia. In the last half-dozen years, Japanese have become increasingly nervous about the possibility of being sidelined by the behemoth next door. Many Chinese and Japanese alike believe that Japan's dikes are crumbling and that in another decade there will be several times as many Chinese in Japan as today -- for this is where the money is to be made.
"None of us like Japanese men," said a 25-year-old woman from Shanghai who has worked as a prostitute for a year. "They're so different from Chinese people. They're cold, and we're warm. I wouldn't choose them for pleasure."
"But this is business," she added.
She has overcome the language barrier and prospered because, like many of the immigrants, she is well educated and fiercely ambitious. She takes classes in Japanese and English during the day, then goes to work in the hostess bar and nearby "love hotels" from 9 P.M. to 5 A.M.
"It's tough, but I'm making a lot more money than I did in China," she said. "With the money, I hope I can go to the United States. I have some relatives in Florida, in a city called Miami."
Despite extremely strict immigration rules for Chinese, their numbers in Japan are surging. The official figure for Chinese in Japan has risen to 252,000, from 95,000 a decade ago, and this does not include the tens of thousands who are here illegally.
Many of the Chinese are engineers, software designers and investment bankers, but those immigrants tend to live scattered around Tokyo and attract little attention. It is the thousands of gangsters and prostitutes clustered in Kabukicho who have become notorious, inflaming anxieties and hostility toward Chinese.
Despite Kabukicho's image as a Chinese enclave where gangsters hack each other with cleavers, it seems by American standards a surprisingly tame and safe area. It is the kind of red-light district that would have emerged from the paintbrush of Norman Rockwell. The streets are well lighted and spotless, pimps sometimes wear neckties and clean-cut barkers ask men to step inside, "Please."
"In spite of everything, Kabukicho is still a Japanese place," said Mark Schreiber, an American in Tokyo who has taken an interest in Kabukicho for more than 30 years and is researching a book on the area. "In Southeast Asia, you might get knocked on the head, but you know it's not going to happen here -- because this is Japan."
Only one killing in Kabukicho has occurred so far this year -- one Chinese man stabbed another in a karaoke parlor -- and graffiti and muggings are almost unknown.
"If you're honest, nobody bothers you in Kabukicho," said a Shanghai restaurateur who was lured to Japan by the money and says she has no troubles with the gangs. "The hoods just feed off the hoods."
Japan has had red-light districts since ancient times, long before there were red lights. Prostitution was made illegal only in the 1950's, and even now it is regarded by many as less felonious than jaywalking.
Originally Kabukicho was a purely Japanese-run area, but in the 1980's, Taiwanese steadily took over the bars and clubs in the area and began to bring in young women from China as "hostesses." The Chinese invasion picked up speed in the 1990's, and Taiwanese or Chinese establishments replaced Japanese.
Now the grocery stores offer Shanghai newspapers and Chinese specialties like live eels. Some of Japan's best (and cheapest) Chinese restaurants are in Kabukicho, and families regularly stroll past the strip parlors for Cantonese noodles or Shanghai dumplings.
The collapse of the "bubble economy" hurt Japan's huge sex industry, and Government statistics say the number of sex-related businesses has fallen to 12,200, from 14,200 in 1989. But Chinese bars and brothels pay employees less and are able to thrive despite the recession.
"Here, if you work hard, you can make money and get ahead," said a 27-year-old doctor from Harbin, in northeastern China, a tall woman who has worked as a prostitute for only a few months. "The Japanese complain about unemployment, but there's good money to be made here. You just have to be willing to work hard and take the tough jobs."
"This is my way to get ahead in life," she added. "I'll live the rest of my life here. Or maybe I'll go to the States."
She and others said immigration restrictions are simply a minor inconvenience. Some of the women enter Japan as university students or after "marrying" a Japanese man in exchange for a few thousand dollars, while others sneak in by boat or use fake or stolen passports arranged by Chinese gangs.
Chinese in Kabukicho have also prospered by making a science of indulging their drunken Japanese customers.
"If a guest complains, immediately refund him his money," states Rule 29 on a four-page list that one Taiwan bar owner circulates among her prostitutes. "If any girl gets three complaints, she must immediately resign."
The list of rules, which is supposed to be confidential, stipulates that the women must smile and wear makeup at all times. Any woman caught chewing gum gets an $80 fine. Asking a customer for a tip is a firing offense, and a system of bonuses and penalties creates incentives for the prostitutes to fawn over the customers in the bar and in bed.
"When a customer sings karaoke, please, everyone clap," states Rule 37. "This is compulsory."
Chinese gangs prospered partly because they have been quicker than Japanese crooks to adopt high technology, like equipment to forge passports and make fake magnetic-strip cards that fool pachinko-game arcades and allow the user to play and win prizes. Chinese mobsters also won business by charging low prices --offering contract killings, for example, starting at just $2,700.
"The Chinese mafia is very, very good at business," the Japanese yakuza said. "Whether in fake magnetic cards or fencing stolen goods, they go about things with a real system. They are very serious about making money."
The yakuza complained that Chinese gangsters -- whom he referred to using a derogatory Japanese expression equivalent to "dogs" -- are multiplying wildly and are so brazen that they have taken to robbing Japanese mobsters at knifepoint or gunpoint.
"For Japanese yakuza, the most important thing is staying alive, and making money is second," the yakuza said. "But for the Chinese gangsters, the first thing is money. The second thing is money. And the third thing is money."
In December the police formed a special 101-member force to crack down on foreign crimes, especially in Kabukicho, but it seems to have made little headway.
"We know how the Japanese gangs work, because they've always been in Kabukicho," Taiichi Kawasaki, the head of the force, said in an interview in police headquarters. (The location of the Kabukicho office is a secret.) "But it's difficult to figure out how the foreign gangs work."
Few Chinese think that the crackdown on Kabukicho will succeed or will stem the tide of Chinese migrants, but even some of those engaged in shady businesses seem to welcome a greater police presence.
"The gangs are out of control," a Chinese pimp fretted as he stood on the street late one evening. "They kidnap anybody who's Chinese and hold them until they get money, and sometimes they hurt them. If it's a girl, they rape her and take her bank card and force her to tell the PIN number. She's usually not legal, so she can't go to the cops.
"The Chinese community is living in fear."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chinese are moving into Kabukicho, a long-time center of the sex trade. (Nicholas D. Kristof/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; CHINA; TOKYO (JAPAN); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION; ORGANIZED CRIME; CRIME AND CRIMINALS ORGANIZED CRIME (91%); PROSTITUTION (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (67%); IMMIGRATION LAW (60%); IMMIGRATION (60%); GANGS (58%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



341 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE EURO SLIDES. The dollar gained against the euro after a report showed no inflation in consumer prices last month in the United States. In New York, the euro settled at $1.0305, down from $1.0425 on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) EURO (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



342 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Lessons of the Balkan War

 BODY:
As NATO peacekeepers move into Kosovo, they are finding grisly evidence of Serbian brutality in nearly every town. The signs of mass killing and wanton destruction in places like Djakovica, Vlastica and Cikatova ought to give pause to those who fault NATO for confronting Slobodan Milosevic. Though definitive judgments on the war await further developments in the Balkans and the work of future historians, it is not too soon to conclude that the air offensive was just, and more effective than its many critics expected. As an exercise in military and political coercion, the campaign achieved most of its aims with limited civilian casualties. Perhaps most important, it demonstrated that the United States and its allies can act decisively in defense of democratic principles and against ethnic violence in Europe. 
 This was the first military conflict since the end of the cold war fought primarily for humanitarian purposes. It probably will not be the last. Washington went to war in the Persian Gulf eight years ago because Iraqi aggression threatened America's economic welfare. The threat in Kosovo was different. Certainly, maintaining stability in Europe is essential to American security. But the immediate hazard in Kosovo was a demonic assault on the principles of a civilized society. NATO bombed Serbia for 78 days to combat lethal ethnic cleansing, to reverse the expulsion of more than a million ethnic Albanians from their homes and to prevent Slobodan Milosevic from terrorizing the Balkans.
That Washington and its European allies were willing to confront Mr. Milosevic is a powerful signal to other tyrants that the instigation of ethnic violence, even within their own borders, can reach a point that the world will not tolerate.
That does not mean the West can or should intervene whenever ethnic conflict erupts. As a practical matter, intervention should be confined to cases where violence is extreme and threatens to engulf neighboring nations and where democratic nations have the means, as in Kosovo, to respond. The combination will be rare outside Europe. When possible, such military actions should be conducted with the approval of the United Nations Security Council. They should not be initiated without the support of the American people and Congress.
Air power is not a panacea, but the war in Yugoslavia demonstrated that sustained aerial attack with precision munitions can erode resistance and bring retreat. Civilian casualties are inevitable, but NATO worked hard to avoid them. It is a tribute to American military technology and the skill of NATO pilots that in almost 10,000 bombing runs no allied airmen were lost and only two planes were downed. Americans should not count on such success in every conflict, but the bombardment of Serbia and Iraq suggests that most air defenses can be defeated by American weapons systems.
NATO, in its first war, showed surprising cohesion and determination. Much was made of Germany's opposition to a possible ground war, and Italy's and Greece's preference to end the bombing, but in the end the alliance did not crack as the air war was extended and intensified. This was due in considerable part to the steady leadership of President Clinton, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and President Jacques Chirac of France. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, raised in the turmoil of earlier European conflicts, brought great conviction and passion to the fight against a new kind of chaos.
The mass graves, gutted buildings and torched farmhouses of Kosovo are not the inevitable product of military conflict. They are the result of a premeditated assault by Mr. Milosevic against ethnic Albanians. Enforcing the peace in Kosovo will be difficult, as the events of the last week have shown. Reconstruction will take months, and reconciliation may be impossible after so much bloodshed. But to have done nothing in the face of Mr. Milosevic's campaign of terror would have been unconscionable. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (94%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); ITALY (79%); GREECE (58%); GULF STATES (56%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (56%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION AMERICAN SECURITY SHREDDING (55%); AMERICAN SECURITY DISTRIBUTION (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (94%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); ITALY (79%); GREECE (58%); GULF STATES (56%); INDIAN OCEAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS WAR & CONFLICT (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); WAR CRIMES (78%); AIR FORCES (77%); HISTORY (77%); ARMED FORCES (75%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); APPROVALS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



343 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
A case for forgivingthe world's biggest debtors their debts.

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein 

 BODY:
TANZANIA, half of whose population is illiterate, spends a third of its budget on debt payments and spends four times more on debt than it does primary education. Niger, where life expectancy is only 47 years, spends more on debt payments than it does on health and education combined.
Lydia Williams of Oxfam America, a nonprofit organization, presented these and other chilling facts to the House Banking Committee on behalf of legislation that would have the United States unilaterally write off most of its loans to some of the world's poorest countries. 
 The bill, sponsored by the chairman, James A. Leach, Republican of Iowa, and John LaFalce, Democrat of New York, would also urge international financial institutions to offer the world's poorest countries more debt relief than now provided under a 1996 initiative of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. Additionally, the Leach-LaFalce plan would provide more relief than the proposal that President Clinton will promote when he meets this weekend in Cologne, Germany, with the heads of state from six industrialized powers and Russia.
But does the Leach-LaFalce bill, let alone the President's plan, go far enough? Not so, says Jeffrey Sachs, director of the Harvard Institute for International Development. He applauds Mr. Leach for pressing the Administration to seek more debt relief. But, he says, proposals that only partly wipe out the debt of the worst-off countries are inadequate. Many heavily indebted countries cannot afford to repay their loans, and, he said, "nobody with good sense would want them to."
Consider the 700 million people living in the 41 poorest, most indebted countries. They live on an average of about $4 a day; many survive on less than $1 a day. Yet these countries are expected to repay about $130 billion in loans from the I.M.F., World Bank and Western countries.
The fund and the bank began a program in 1996 to solve the problem, focusing on about two dozen countries for relief. Under the program, countries that undertake economic reforms overseen by the I.M.F. would -- after six years -- qualify for enough relief to reduce the ratio of their remaining debt to their export revenues to between 200 and 250 percent. Three years later, only three nations have qualified. Many economists say the program leaves crushing levels of debt in place.
The Leach-LaFalce plan would focus on more than 40 countries and reduce their debt payments to 10 percent of government revenues, probably about half the level of the President's proposal. Under the Leach-LaFalce plan, the United States would forgive almost all its $6 billion in loans to those nations and require them to spend the savings on education, health and other social needs.
President Clinton's plan would cut the debt of those countries by at least $70 billion beyond the current I.M.F.-World Bank program. It sets some of the same targets as the Leach-LaFalce bill does, and would also require the countries to use debt relief to strengthen health and education programs. The Administration does not think it can convince leaders from the other Western powers to do more than it has already proposed.
But Mr. Sachs argues that much more -- complete debt forgiveness -- is desperately needed for perhaps 25 of the 40 countries. And he provided Mr. Leach's committee with data to show that forgiveness is affordable.
He starts with the I.M.F. The 40 countries owe it about $8 billion. He notes that the fund owns gold worth, at market prices, more than $30 billion, but it carries the gold on its books at only about $5 billion. By recognizing the truth value of its gold reserves and selling modest amounts over time, Mr. Sachs suggests, the fund could write off loans to poor countries yet leave its balance sheet looking better than under current accounting rules.
He also shows that the World Bank could easily afford to write off unsubsidized loans. He concedes it would need extra money from rich nations to continue issuing as many subsidized loans. Yet, even if it is forced to curtail such lending, the most heavily indebted countries might not be worse off. For many, the combination of less debt and fewer loans would be better than the situation now, in which they wind up repaying the bank with one hand the money they borrow with the other.
Mr. Sachs estimates the cost to the United States of writing off loans would also be small. The $6 billion in loans to the worst-off countries is truly worth only about $600 million, he said, the most that the United States could expect to recover.
Beyond the numbers hovers the issue of justice. "Any attempt to collect debt payments from these countries," Representative Tom Campbell, Republican of California, said, "starts from the false premise that they owe the money. But why should a fisherman off the coast of Ghana set aside two extra fish to pay for lavish spending by former tyrants?"
In many cases, he said, "these loans were not loans at all," adding, "They were grants for political purposes like winning the cold war."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (55%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; HARVARD UNIVERSITY INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); OXFAM AMERICA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD BANK; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; HARVARD UNIVERSITY INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); OXFAM AMERICA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (55%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); DEBTOR NATIONS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M; LEACH, JAMES A (REPR); LAFALCE, JOHN J (REPR); SACHS, JEFFREY (PROF); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



344 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Technology Sector Spurs Nasdaq; Dow Rises by 189.96

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Paced by the technology sector, which propelled the Nasdaq market to its biggest-point gain on record, stock prices soared yesterday after the Government reported that consumer inflation nearly disappeared in May.
Investors had grown increasingly fearful that continued rapid economic growth might start to generate inflation, a concern shared by Federal Reserve policy makers who in May announced a bias toward raising short-term interest rates, if needed to keep prices in check. 
 Coming in contrast to expectations that the Consumer Price Index would rise by two-tenths of 1 percent, the Labor Department's report of no change was greeted with great relief. Some analysts who had feared Fed policy makers, at their meeting at the end of this month, would make the first of perhaps multiple rate increases suddenly expressed doubts that there will be any rises.
"That the C.P.I. was positive on all fronts got things going in earnest," said Joseph Battipaglia, investment policy chairman at Gruntal & Company, adding that a second factor in yesterday's market surge was the Oracle Corporation's surprisingly strong sales and profit report after the market closed on Tuesday.
Shares of Oracle, the biggest database software maker, jumped 71 3/16, to 32 15/16, as brokerage and bank issues joined computer-related stocks as the day's biggest gainers.
The Nasdaq composite index soared 103.16 points, or 4.27 percent, to 2,517.83, surpassing its 96.05-point jump on Feb. 11 to claim the record as the most points ever. The percentage rise was the biggest this year and the seventh biggest on record.
Other major gauges also posted substantial gains -- in contrast to their frequent tendency recently to move in opposite directions from the Nasdaq. The Dow Jones industrial average, with many blue-chip components sensitive to the business cycle, rose 189.96 points, or 1.79 percent, to close at 10,784.95. This put it ahead 17.46 percent for the year, but it was still 2.9 percent shy of its record of 11,107.19 reached May 13.
The Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, a benchmark for many professional money managers, climbed 29.25 points, or 2.25 percent, to finish at 1,330.41, putting it up 8.23 percent so far in 1999. The index had an unprecedented string of gains of more than 20 percent a year from 1995 through 1998.
Perhaps inspired by the United States performance, Mexico's chief stock index leaped 6.2 percent, while Brazil's Bovespa was 4.12 percent higher. European markets, which had less time to react to the C.P.I. and other Government reports here, finished with moderate gains.
The bond market advanced, driving interest rates down by as much as one-tenth of a point. Most analysts said they still expected the Federal Reserve to lift the overnight lending rate by one-quarter point, to 5 percent, on June 30.
"Everyone kind of expects that's still to come," said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management. But, he said, the C.P.I. report at least "raises some doubt" about this. He noted, for example, that since early October bond yields have already risen 50 percent relative to commodity prices, which have actually retreated. Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, is to discuss monetary policy today before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress.
J. P. Morgan posted the biggest advance among the Dow 30, surging 6 points, to 134. American Express, up 4 15/16, to 124, was the third-biggest contributor. Financial stocks are particularly sensitive to interest-rate changes, which affect lending volume, spreads between borrowing and lending costs, holdings of derivatives and, in the case of brokers, trading activity that tends to shrink in weak markets.
Chase Manhattan climbed 5 1/4, to 80 3/8; Citigroup 2 5/16, to 46 1/16; Merrill Lynch 5 3/8, to 72 15/16; Charles Schwab 7 3/4, to 89 1/8, and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter 5 3/16, to 93 1/16.
In technology, I.B.M. climbed 4 13/16 to 120 11/16; Hewlett-Packard 4 5/16, to 90 3/4; America Online 11 3/4, to 106 1/2; Microsoft 3 5/16 to 81; Ebay 13 1/4, to 148 3/4, and Amazon.com 15 3/16, to 111 11/16. Despite downbeat comments by some analysts, Pfizer advanced 1 9/16, to 99 1/8, its second straight rise following six declines. Merck rose 1, to 68 5/8, in an otherwise restrained drug group.
Oil stocks and those of oil service companies were prominently weak, with Exxon, Mobil, Texaco, Phillips each down more than a point and Halliburton down 2 1/4 after hitting a 52-week high and Schlumberger down 2. Coca-Cola, which has identified production problems related to a health scare in Europe, steadied yesterday, closing at 63 7/8, up 1/8.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (85%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (85%); GRUNTAL & CO LLC (69%); GRUNTAL & CO INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (69%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



345 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Till We Drop

BYLINE: By David Handelman; David Handelman is a contributing editor at TV Guide.

 BODY:
As I heard the final boarding call announced for my flight to Los Angeles, I saw a fellow passenger lingering at a free Internet-access computer, pecking feverishly at the keyboard. I peered over his shoulder: he was checking stock quotes.
"I manage a fund," he explained. "I usually hold stuff long term, but I still want to see how we're doing." 
 Seeing how you're doing on the stock market has become the overriding obsession of this decade. When I was a child, stocks were stored deep in safe-deposit boxes, to be removed for college tuition or distributed to heirs when the stockholder died. Today, I get a daily E-mail bulletin after the market closes that gives me ulcer-inducing news about my stocks rising and falling 5, 10, even 22 percent, huge changes that used to take a year or more.
If the recent push to keep the market open longer becomes reality, such bulletins will be rendered obsolete. But even if I stopped getting the bulletins, it would be impossible for me to avoid market reports. In this era of rapid buying and selling and wildly vacillating prices, every available space has been turned into a stock ticker, providing a continuous EKG to the nation's economic -- and, ultimately, mental -- health.
Now even when I'm getting my hair cut I am faced with scrolling prices. The television in my barbershop is set to CNN with the sound turned off, and the bottom of the screen -- formerly devoted to those old-fashioned national obsessions, sports and weather -- now often lists stock declines and gains.
When I try to get away from it all at Shea Stadium, my eyes drift to a sign above the left field bullpen that alternates between the type and speed of the last pitch thrown, and, yes, a stock ticker. (If you notice more botched fly balls than usual, it might be because a millionaire outfielder is peeking over his shoulder too often.)
In the Times Square area, already home to a Dow Jones zipper and a Morgan Stanley wraparound triple zipper, pedestrians will soon be treated to a Nasdaq ticker and a Reuters video sign featuring stock information.
When the fund manager and I boarded our plane, the in-flight telephone nestled in the seatback in front of me had a small LCD screen that included the day's Dow Jones Industrial Average. I had to stare at it the entire flight. Now the latest Palm Pilot gives Internet access, so people walking down the street talking on cell phones will be bumping into people walking down the street hunched over their E*Trade screens.
As the baby boom generation tries to rejigger the boundaries between work and family, extending the hours of the stock market might seem like a convenient solution. Like the 24-hour drugstore, restaurant, grocery or Internet shopping site, the full-time stock market, in theory, would allow people to deal with their investments at their leisure instead of forcing them to cut into their workday or quality time with their children.
But actually it promises the reverse: a life in which there isn't any down time, in which the tickers screaming across the sky, the computer screen, the television, the Palm Pilot, the stadium keep us all in a constant state of panic.
These ubiquitous tickers convey a false sense of security, as if we are all as up-to-the-minute as traders on the floor, a phone call away from striking it rich. But the truth is, if another crash comes, all these tickers will be as useless as the old men with signs saying "The End Is Near." And when the dust settles, maybe they can be used for something truly important -- like sports scores or weather forecasts.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (MK Mabry)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (52%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); PALM INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); BONDS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); TUITION FEES (72%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (70%); BASEBALL (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (68%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (64%); ATHLETES (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); 

PERSON: HANDELMAN, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



346 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Backs a British-Dutch Plan To Partly Lift Sanctions on Iraq

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 16

 BODY:
The United States has decided to support a British and Dutch proposal that would partly lift oil sanctions on Iraq if Baghdad answers outstanding questions about its unconventional weapons programs and cooperates fully with a new group of United Nations arms inspectors.
The proposal is the latest effort by the 15-member Security Council to end the diplomatic deadlock that has prevailed since American and British planes struck Iraq last December to punish Baghdad for its lack of cooperation with arms inspectors. 
 The United Nations inspectors have not been permitted to return since then, leaving Council members increasingly concerned that Iraq may again be trying to acquire unconventional weapons.
The new proposal would create a new inspection agency for Iraq to insure that Baghdad is complying with its commitment to forswear unconventional weapons and that it answers outstanding questions about its past nuclear, biological and chemical weapons programs.
Only if Iraq cooperates would the oil embargo imposed after it invaded Kuwait in 1990 be partially suspended, the proposal states. Specifically, it would suspend sanctions on exports, but not imports. Russia, China, and France, by contrast, favor a total lifting of sanctions.
Moreover, the British-Dutch proposal would maintain "effective financial controls" on Iraqi revenues to insure that Iraq does not use the revenue to buy or make unconventional weapons. This means that the United Nations would still maintain an escrow account into which oil companies would pay for Iraqi oil.
Finally, the suspension would require Security Council approval every four months, which means that the United States could always veto the suspension if it concludes that Baghdad is cheating on its disarmament and other commitments.
Since the Council already permits Iraq to sell $5.26 billion in oil every six months -- currently more oil than it produces -- several diplomats dismissed the importance of the new proposal. But that revenue can only buy food and medicine under Council restrictions.
Yet some diplomats called it significant that the United States and Britain had for the first time endorsed a proposal partially suspending oil sanctions. A. Peter Burleigh, the American representative here, said that though Washington still had "some problems with some parts" of the proposal, "it is something the U.S. can support." The British draft, he said, would permit foreign companies to invest in expanding Iraq's oil infrastructure and permit unlimited exports if Iraq disarms and cooperates with inspectors.
The British and Dutch draft presents what one British diplomat called a "stepping stone" approach by which Baghdad, if it disarms, can eventually escape the sanctions regime. "It's a road map for the future," an American diplomat agreed. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NETHERLANDS (91%); CHINA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); FRANCE (55%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; NETHERLANDS; UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); NETHERLANDS (91%); CHINA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); FRANCE (55%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ATOMIC WEAPONS WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); INSPECTIONS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); APPROVALS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JUDITH

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



347 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Embracing Clinton at Arm's Length, Gore Formally Begins Run for President

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: CARTHAGE, Tenn., June 16

 BODY:
Against a backdrop of small-town America, Vice President Al Gore took his first formal step out of President Clinton's shadow today, announcing his quest for the Presidency and pledging to "bring a new wave of fundamental change to this nation."
Part of that wave of change, he made clear both in his speech and in earlier remarks about Mr. Clinton's impeachment, would be a fresh moral start in the Oval Office. 
 "If you entrust me with the Presidency, I will marshal its authority, its resources and its moral leadership to fight for America's family," Mr. Gore said, with his own family, including his 87-year-old mother and his pregnant 25-year-old daughter, creating a tableau behind him. "I will take my own values of faith and family to the Presidency."
While trying to distance himself, however, Mr. Gore at the same time embraced all the issues that form the bedrock of Mr. Clinton's domestic agenda. He said he wanted to move more people off welfare, put more police on the streets, expand the Family and Medical Leave Act, make college more affordable, provide universal preschool, protect Social Security, help the elderly pay for prescription drugs and raise the minimum wage.
"We have to have schools that instill the values and character we need in the next generation," the Vice President said, saying that every school in America should be drug-free and gun-free.
"Families deserve refuge from a culture of violence and mayhem," he said in a speech marred for several minutes by protesters concerned that Mr. Gore was not doing enough to get AIDS drugs to Africa. "I will work to give parents the ability to protect their children from the marketing of cruelty and degradation."
Mr. Gore, 51, who spent his boyhood summers on a family farm near here, spoke before a crowd of about 5,000 in front of the bunting-draped, red brick Smith County courthouse, where he has declared his candidacy for various offices seven times before, first for Congress in 1976, then the Senate, and in 1987, for President.
In that announcement speech 12 years ago, he said he was restless, and he said so again today -- restless to enact legislation that at once expands Mr. Clinton's agenda but departs from his Presidency in being guided by moral constancy.
"It is our own lives we must master if we are to have the moral authority to guide our children," Mr. Gore said. "No policy proposal can change a culture that does not place family life at the top of our hierarchy of values, where it belongs."
If he was distancing himself from Mr. Clinton on the character issue, Mr. Gore also signaled to reporters earlier that he could begin to distance himself on policy matters as well. In fact he said he had had many such disagreements with Mr. Clinton in the past but preferred to debate them in private.
"There have been many of them," Mr. Gore told reporters on Tuesday in Tennessee.
He declined to reveal what they were, but he said: "Everything changes when I become a candidate because I'll be describing my own vision of the future. If that happens to be different in some respects from what the Administration wants, then I think that is understandable."
Picking up on a theme espoused by his wife, Tipper, he said he wanted health care plans to cover mental illness just as they cover physical illness. He said he wanted to make it easier for the elderly to receive health care in their own homes.
The thrust of Mr. Gore's speech was that by virtue of his experience, he was the candidate most prepared to lead the country and to maintain the record-breaking economic expansion of the last several years.
"I want to keep our prosperity going, and I know how to do it," he asserted, without elaboration but with one of several digs at Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the Republican front-runner, and Mr. Bush's platform of "compassionate conservatism."
"I want to do it the right way," Mr. Gore said, "not by letting people fend for themselves, or hoping for crumbs of compassion, but by giving people the skills and knowledge to succeed in their own right."
Mr. Gore emphasized his experience in foreign policy in a world he called "complex and volatile," and said, "You deserve a leader who has been tested in it." He also spoke a few sentences in Spanish, directly competing with Mr. Bush, who is fluent in Spanish, in his appeal to Hispanic voters, who make up an important swing constituency.
And Mr. Gore made a straightforward declaration of support for abortion rights, with a veiled reference to Mr. Bush's more ambiguous comments. "Some try to duck the issue of choice," he said. "Not me."
He also set up a contrast with Mr. Bush over the issue of access to guns. "While some want to pass new protections for gun manufacturers, to shield them from lawsuits," Mr. Gore said, "I will work to get guns off the streets, out of the schools and away from children and criminals."
His speech, 25 minutes long, was notable for its specificity and its scant mention of Mr. Clinton. Mr. Gore said on Tuesday that his announcement speech was his chance to step out on his own, and he made that evident in his repeated emphasis on moral leadership today.
But he was most explicit when speaking to reporters the night before, when he landed in Tennessee. He talked about "that awful year we went through," referring to the yearlong impeachment ordeal.
"What was most upsetting about it," Mr. Gore told reporters, was "the wasted time."
"I'm even more anxious to move forward swiftly to make up for that waste of time," he went on. "We shouldn't have had to go through it."
While Mr. Gore has said -- and repeated tonight in a taped interview on the ABC News program "20/20" -- that Mr. Clinton's behavior was inexcusable, he had not said publicly before that he was upset over the time that was squandered. During the impeachment scandal, Mr. Gore stood loyally behind the President and declined to criticize him.
Mr. Clinton, who left today for a weeklong trip to Europe, called Mr. Gore this morning to wish him luck before the speech and called him again after he saw it on television. Mr. Gore was out shaking hands and Mr. Clinton left a message, saying "Great job, Al."
After his announcement here, Mr. Gore went on to Iowa and New Hampshire. He plans to visit Wall Street on Thursday and hold a fund-raising reception before continuing his announcement tour in Los Angeles, Seattle and Philadelphia.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Albert Arnold Gore Jr.
 
CURRENT JOB: Vice President of the United States.
 
BORN: March 31, 1948, Washington, D.C.
 
EDUCATION: St. Albans School, 1965; Harvard University, 1969; Vanderbilt School of Religion, 1972; Vanderbilt Law School, 1974-76.
 
RELIGION: Baptist.
 
MILITARY SERVICE: United States Army, 1969-71.
 
MARRIED: Mary Elizabeth (Tipper) Aitcheson in 1970
 
CHILDREN: Karenna, 25; Kristin, 22; Sarah, 20; Albert 3d, 16.
 
GOVERNMENT POSITIONS: United States Representative, 1977-1985; United States Senator, 1985-1993.
 
OTHER MAJOR POSITIONS: Investigative reporter and editorial writer for The Tennessean, 1971-76.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (59%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (59%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); DRUG POLICY (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (68%); AIDS & HIV (68%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (66%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); ANTIVIRALS (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (65%); FAMILY FARMS (64%); MINIMUM WAGE (51%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q AL GORE (94%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



348 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: PRISTINA;
With Armed Serbs Still on the Scene, Albanians in Kosovo's Capital Are Wary but Hopeful

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: PRISTINA, Kosovo, June 16

 BODY:
The arrival of NATO-led peacekeeping forces has brought Kosovo's Albanians to city streets and rural lanes to celebrate, shouting "NATO!" and tossing flowers and giving victory signs.
But not in Pristina, the Kosovo capital. Here the mood is tentative, wary and restrained. 
 While NATO forces are patrolling the streets in jeeps and armored personnel carriers and now, sometimes, on foot, some Serbian police and military personnel remain in Pristina.
"There are a lot of Serbs still in Pristina," said Gzim Gercari, 33. "And there are many armed and angry Serbs, who have been drinking a lot."
Mr. Gercari was one of many Albanians who remained in Pristina throughout the war. But the last three days, he said, have been as bad as anything he experienced.
He lives near a headquarters for the Serbian militarized police. As they have prepared to leave Pristina, under the terms of the peace agreement signed by President Slobodan Milosevic, some of the Serbs have been looting and smashing houses, and NATO has not intervened.
"They ordered people out of houses and smashed windows and demolished doors and stole what they wanted," he said. "They started to burn my apartment in Suncani Breg," a neighborhood of Pristina, but a cousin put out the fire.
This morning, the police were finally gone, Mr. Gercari said. But he worries still about anxious and armed Serbian civilians, some of whom have been kidnapped by the rebel Kosovo Liberation Army.
On Tuesday, two Albanians were shot after getting into an argument with some armed Serbian civilians. Early this morning, at the downtown Brooklyn Bar, some very sentimental and very drunk Serbian soldiers, in their fatigues, staggered into the street firing their weapons into the air, as a goodbye to Kosovo. As they swayed and dropped the barrels of their Kalashnikovs, passers-by hit the ground.
But after months of a heavy military presence and incessant NATO bombing, when many Albanians were pushed out of Pristina or fled, there is a new lightness nonetheless.
The streets are getting jammed again in Pristina, with the Corzo cafe downtown now so crowded it is hard to find a seat, even though there has been no water for the last two days. With espresso not an option, people drink juice or mineral water or iced instant coffee with some ice cream.
Albanians are returning home, from the camps in Macedonia and Albania, but also from the mountains. In a poor Albanian section of Pristina, near a new headquarters of the Kosovo Liberation Army and an aid distribution center, Halil Dirbranaj, 41, pulled up today in his tractor and a trailer stuffed with seven members of his family.
"The Yugoslav Army threw me out of my house," he said, "so we went to the mountains." That was near a village called Kriljevo, some 15 miles east of Pristina. They spent most of the time in the open, "with no protection from anyone," he said. "We were just hiding behind the rocks, open to the rain." But even with his elderly mother lying pale in the trailer, as one of his daughters held an umbrella to shield her from the sun, Mr. Dirbranaj said he was afraid to go into his house, fearing Serbian booby traps.
Fatos, an Albanian of 24, arrived from Macedonia two days ago to find the lock on his building had been changed, so he could not get to his apartment. Hydajet, another Albanian, came home to a burned and looted apartment. But others were luckier, finding everything as they had left it, sometimes because of the intervention of Serbian neighbors.
People are poor and hurting, but there are the beginnings of what will be a hot economy designed to service the foreigners pouring into Kosovo. "It's going to be like Bosnia or Cambodia," an experienced United Nations official said, a little sadly. "There will be almost as many foreigners trying to help as those who need it. And they will need restaurants and bars and brothels, and this place will never be the same."
While there is no running water, making the atmosphere rather ripe in the summer heat, there is electricity. And just a few days ago, the main Yugoslav cell-phone company, Mobtel, turned its transmitters on again in Pristina. There had been no telephone service during the war. With travel restricted to Kosovo, the province was almost entirely isolated.
While most people assumed NATO had bombed the transmitters, it is now understood that Belgrade did not want Kosovo reached by telephone. It is also suggested by knowledgeable officials that given the electricity problems, Mobtel also feared that it would be unable to keep its computers going to charge customers for their calls.
At the misnamed Grand Hotel, stuffed now with journalists and the first influx of aid workers, Albanians offer their services as translators, drivers, money changers and landlords.
There is a desperate need for restaurants for all these foreigners and their money, but many of the restaurants that existed before the war were owned by Albanians, and most have been burned or looted. Many of their owners also remain abroad, as refugees.
The owners of the Corzo, Muslims from the Gora region between Albania and Macedonia, are contemplating opening a new restaurant, as are their waiters. But it is still too dangerous, they say, wanting another week or so to see how the peacekeepers function and how the Serbs react to the withdrawal of their military and police forces.
Of course, many Serbs are leaving Pristina, too, terrified that the insurgents of the Kosovo Liberation Army will show up at their houses to exact a generalized revenge. On many streets, one sees Serbs packing their cars and trucks. Some say they are going for good; others say they hope to be back. But their hope seems to lack conviction.
Rumors sweep the Serbian population of atrocities against them, of kidnappings and killings. Some of the rumors, unfortunately, turn out to be true. A missing poster has gone up for Ivan Celic, a 40-year-old mechanical engineer, missing since June 14, believed kidnapped as he was driving his Volkswagen Golf in the mostly Albanian area of Suncani Breg. He has four children. "Any information," the poster says, referring to the peacekeeping mission, "pass to the civilian authorities and the KFOR mission."
Today in Kosovo Polje, a British officer met several hundred local Serbs to urge them to remain. "If you are threatened, tell us about it, and we will do our best to protect you," he said from the steps of a Serbian Orthodox Church. "You have to consider the future of your country. If you want it to have a future, be brave."
But Kosovo Polje is heavily Serbian, and many always intended to stay. Dejan Jovanovic, 24, said many of the men would remain, "but the women and children will go," at least as a temporary precaution.
In Pristina, the Kosovo Liberation Army has proudly opened two new offices. One is in a school, where young women in white T-shirts and black overalls guard the gates.
The other, the headquarters, was opened a few days ago in a large house offered by an Albanian businessman. Uniformed, armed soldiers stand guard and pose for photographs, while another soldier mans a sniper position looking down the road.
A British liaison officer from the Irish Guards entered to discuss security, he said. "It's really about getting them to behave," he said crisply. Asked what it meant to "demilitarize" the Kosovo Liberation Army, as called for under the peace agreement, he shrugged. "Just now, it's important that they behave," he said. "They're a little confused, too, looking for instructions. We'll get around to the rest in time."
Inside, Salih Mustafa, a 28-year-old history student who was the commander of the guerrilla operations inside Pristina during the war, talked coolly of having "liquidated" Serbian paramilitaries and secret policemen and sabotaging buildings in what he called Operation Hawk.
He refused to say how many men were under his command, but he had a presence that lent credence to his account, even if the actions of his men hardly turned the tide of the war.
But such operations were all he could do, given the shortage of weapons, especially heavy weapons, he said.
The army is grateful to NATO but remains entirely committed to independence, Mr. Mustafa said. "This war is a step forward, but we still have work to do before independence. This NATO plan doesn't solve the Albanian question, and it just restores the status quo in this fake peace."
NATO and the West have different interests, he said, adding: "That's why I call it a fake peace. Real peace will be when Kosovo gets its independence."
NATO's effort to demilitarize the insurgents is a form of insult to the soldiers "who fought to defend their homes, honor and country, while the criminals of the paramilitary Serb forces burned and looted houses, killed and raped, and they are put in an equal position," he said. "They can just take off their uniform and weapon and go wherever they want in Pristina."
The NATO efforts will just be "an interlude in the struggle," Mr. Mustafa said. "Until we get the liberation of all Albanian lands, there will be fighting in the Balkans."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Several hundred Serbs, in front of an Orthodox Church in Kosovo Polje yesterday, heard a British officer urge them to stay in Kosovo. "If you are threatened, tell us about it, and we will do our best to protect you," he said. (Alan Chin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (99%); SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); ALBANIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (54%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (54%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; PRISTINA (SERBIA); KOSOVO (SERBIA); KOSOVO (99%); SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); ALBANIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ARMED FORCES (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMIES (78%); BOTTLED WATER (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); FIRES (66%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



349 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Korean Clash May Ruin U.S. Reconciliation Bid

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16

 BODY:
Two weeks before North Korean and South Korean gunboats opened fire on each other in disputed waters, former Defense Secretary William J. Perry spent three days in the North trying to get a government known for its paranoia to build a relationship with Washington.
During 15 hours of talks, Mr. Perry laid out a plan in which President Clinton would lift economic sanctions gradually in return for commitments from North Korea to stop testing missiles and selling missile technology, and to expand a freeze on nuclear-weapons development. 
 The North Koreans were suspicious, a member of Mr. Perry's party said, suspecting a trap.
But they were also intrigued, and ended the visit with a banquet and floor show in which performers entertained Mr. Perry with a mix of Korean revolutionary songs and American tunes, including "Oh! Susanna."
Now, only two weeks later, Mr. Perry's detailed proposals for reconciliation are already in deep trouble -- perhaps a casualty of the outbreak of shooting this week that resulted in the deaths of at least 20 North Koreans.
"It's very damaging," said Donald Gregg, a former American Ambassador to South Korea who heads the Korea Society in New York. "And like everything the North Koreans do, no one is entirely sure why they did it."
Republicans in Congress were suspicious of Mr. Perry's initiative even before the confrontation, and several emerged from a classified briefing last week noting that the North had indicated no willingness to give up its ballistic missile program.
Some hardliners, led by Representative Benjamin A. Gilman of New York, had already introduced legislation that would tie Mr. Clinton's hands, preventing him from lifting sanctions and blocking further aid to the North until it makes major concessions.
"This latest incident fit the standard model for North Korean negotiations," Mr. Gilman said today in an interview. "They create a crisis. Then they demand concessions in return for backing down. The Perry report, if and when we get it, should take into account this kind of brinksmanship."
It is unclear when Mr. Perry will formally issue a report, or in what form. While President Clinton and the national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, have reportedly approved the strategy, the White House played down Mr. Perry's mission and, so far, has offered no public support for his proposals. In fact, Administration officials have refused to discuss his overtures to the North in public, saying they fear that would undercut delicate diplomacy with a volatile regime.
Even within the Clinton Administration, there is growing skepticism that the North Koreans will take the deal, or that Congress would go along.
"Every time the North Koreans do something defiant or something stupid, all it does is harden the view that they could never be trusted to execute whatever deal we strike," a senior Administration official involved in Korea policy said this week. "If you think 'engagement' is a hard sell with China, try it with North Korea."
This week's gun battle on the seas off the Korean Peninsula was particularly unsettling to the Administration because it clearly was more than a confrontation among hot-headed captains. It was preceded by a standoff that lasted several days, as South Korean ships tried to push the North's vessels, chiefly fishing craft seeking crabs, back into Northern territory.
"There was plenty of time for North Korea's military leadership to tell them to back off," said an official familiar with the intelligence gathered from American and South Korean aircraft over the area. "But clearly they wanted to send a message that they were not about to back down."
After the sinking of the North Korean torpedo boat, however, Pyongyang did back off, clearly calculating that they were outgunned.
Equally interesting, the South Koreans backed off as well, and President Kim Dae Jung, who arrives here next month for his second visit to Washington, said he would not retreat from his "sunshine policy" of expanded contacts with the North Koreans.
"It was a sign of a growing maturity on the part of South Korea," said Mr. Gregg, whose long career with Korea included a tour as the Central Intelligence Agency's station chief there during other moments of tension with North Korea. "There is a confidence among the South Koreans we did not used to see."
That confidence, however, is no assurance that Mr. Kim's policy or Mr. Perry's congruent initiative will sell.
The Perry effort hinges on what a State Department official today called "a broad vision of what a new relationship with North Korea could look like."
At its core would be a series of commitments by the North, each verifiable by inspections or American spy satellites, to halt several projects that North Korean leaders have said are important to their national or economic security.
First would be an end to the testing of missiles, including the medium-range missile that was launched over Japan last summer. Pyongyang would also have to end its export of missile technology to the Middle East and Pakistan, one of its few sources of hard currency.
It would also have to expand on the 1994 nuclear accord, allowing broader inspections to dispel fears that it has simply moved its nuclear-weapons projects to sites outside Yongbyon, the frozen nuclear complex where that research was located.
"We didn't go there with the idea that they would say, 'Great idea. Where do we sign up?' " said the State Department official. "But they also listened very intently, asked a lot of questions, took copious notes."
Most of Mr. Perry's interactions were with Kang Sok Ju, the country's First Vice Foreign Minister, who is regarded by American intelligence officials as the civilian official closest to President Kim Jong Il, the son of the North's late founder, Kim Il Sung. President Kim declined to meet with Mr. Perry, though American officials believe that he read a letter from President Clinton that the American delegation carried. The contents have not been made public.
Mr. Perry also met with Lieut. Gen. Li Yong Chol, the director of the national defense commission. Presumably, General Li was in the chain of command as North Korean forces engaged in Tuesday's firefight with the South.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: William J. Perry went to North Korea two weeks ago seeking reconciliation with the United States. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATION (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); APPROVALS (60%); 

PERSON: PERRY, WILLIAM J; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



350 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Bradley Takes On California, One on One

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 16

 BODY:
When the tall man talks, people tend to listen. They have to, because he speaks so softly.
So the other day, in a room overlooking San Francisco Bay, maybe three dozen environmentalists listened closely as Bill Bradley led them through a discussion that began with the wind in the sycamore trees in his home town on the Mississippi River in Crystal City, Mo., then threaded its way through the thickets of California's water wars and finally, almost by chance, to the point.
"For me, there's only one reason to run for President of the United States," Mr. Bradley told a listener who asked him why he was doing it. "That's because you think your leadership could improve the quality of life for millions of Americans. I look at my situation and think ability matches the moment."
That understated answer distills the way Mr. Bradley has campaigned up and down California this week: personally, peacefully, almost obliquely. From a storefront black church in South-Central Los Angeles to a mentoring program for minority teen-agers and new immigrants in Sacramento, from an earnest discussion with underpaid home-care workers to a playful pass through the Farmer's Market in Hollywood, where he made like Meadowlark Lemon with a couple of a cantaloupes, his style has been the same: he talks quietly about the issues that drive him, like race relations or the environment, and lets everything else -- including his candidacy -- speak for itself. On this road trip, there is no set stump speech, no repeated slogan, few snappy sound-bites. There is just a tall man talking.
"I wanted in this trip, notwithstanding what the pundits have said, to show that you can campaign in California person-to-person and succeed," Mr. Bradley said of his nine-day swing through the Golden State.
The trip is a bit of creative counter-programming that has kept his underdog presence on the radar screen as Vice President Al Gore, his rival for the Democratic nomination, officially kicks off his candidacy today in Tennessee. "I want to show respect for the voters of California," he said, "just like I show respect for the voters of Iowa or New Hampshire."
Almost no one thinks that retail campaigning is the way to win in California, where politics sometimes seems to exist only in paid television advertising and the disembodied debates of direct mail. But as he finally embraces the quest for the Presidency that he has considered and rejected so many times before, Bill Bradley is not -- ostentatiously not -- a candidate who buys what everyone else thinks. And for better or worse, as he lopes along, trailing Mr. Gore in California by worse than 2 to 1 in the latest Los Angeles Times Poll, Mr. Bradley, more than ever, seems to have a sense of where he is.
There is still the lanky 6-foot-5-inch grace that marked his years as a basketball star for Princeton and the New York Knicks, and the cool, cerebral blend of diffidence and directness that suffused his 18 years in the Senate from New Jersey. But two and a half years after Mr. Bradley left Washington for writing and teaching, there is something else as well: a kind of Zenlike calm and self-acceptance that makes him seem looser, easier, lighter than he did on Capitol Hill, when he tended to come forth periodically with carefully wrought pronouncements on topics like trade, taxes or race but otherwise often stayed above the fray.
"I developed a real peace of mind about what I'm doing now," Mr. Bradley said in an interview between campaign stops on Tuesday. "I have a clear sense of why I want to do it, what I want to do and how I want to do it. I'm just being myself."
Mr. Bradley is not running the anarchic, outsider campaign of a Jerry Brown or Ross Perot. There are plenty of traditional campaign-style events, including a Beverly Hills fund-raiser to be headed by the entertainment mogul Barry Diller on Thursday and the structured sessions of empathetic discussion with diverse constituent groups that President Clinton has made de rigueur in contemporary politics. He acknowledges that television advertising will be important and today made a traditional policy speech on child poverty, reading from a prepared text, at Para Los Ninos, a child-care center on Skid Row downtown.
"After seven years of the first two-term Democratic administration since Franklin Roosevelt, the percentage of American children living in poverty has barely changed," Mr. Bradley said, calling for greater parental involvement and improved day-care standards, but omitting the most specific proposals in the news release circulated by his staff: raising the minimum wage and expanding the Federal earned-income tax credit for working families.
All the same, he is striving to do things differently. He has yet to take a poll, for example, and is "not trying to be some kind of political mannequin," as he told a Los Angeles television reporter. Or, as he told environmentalists in San Francisco, he hopes to construct, "a narrative and some coherence to all these things that are occurring in people's lives."
"I think the way politics are done today, too often you try to be somebody else," Mr. Bradley said in an interview. "And I think that quite frankly the press is bored with this as much as the politician is bored with it. And I think the idea of my relating to the press, meaning standing before some backdrop and saying three or four poll tested phrases in an attempt to manipulate you only makes you angrier and therefore your job is to destroy, or as you would say, unmask, the candidate, and basically on both sides of the equation it's boring. So my view is my job is to make something happen with people out there."
How well that approach will work, and how well Mr. Bradley can execute it, remains to be seen. He says his top priorities will be to "be a good steward of a good economy," protect the environment, insure that "every child in America has a chance to realize his or her potential," and to overhaul campaign finance laws, but those are not vastly different from Mr. Gore's. And although Mr. Bradley has criticized Mr. Gore as relying on small-bore ideas, some of his own proposals are not exactly giant, like the notion of creating "15-month houses" where unwed teen-age mothers could live under supervision in the final months of pregnancy and the first months of their child's life to learn parenting skills.
For his part, as he joked with political reporters in Sacramento on Monday, Mr. Bradley took heart from the underdog performance of his old team. "I think," he said dryly, "the Knicks are proving that speed and quickness are more important than bulk."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eschewing set stump speeches and snappy slogans, Bill Bradley has taken his person-to-person campaign to California, a state where elections are traditionally won with television advertising and direct mail. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (91%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (91%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (71%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (71%); WATER RIGHTS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (67%); RACE & RACISM (67%); RETAILERS (67%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; BRADLEY, BILL AL GORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



351 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Suspends Contact With South

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, June 16

 BODY:
North Korea said today that it was suspending contacts with the South, a day after South Korean vessels sank one of its warships in the Yellow Sea.
The suspension appeared to be retaliation for the sinking of the ship and the deaths of all 17 crew members. 
 More than 20 North Korean sailors may have died in a high-seas gun battle that lasted less than 30 minutes early Tuesday morning.
The North Korean suspension immediately endangered talks between North and South Korea set for Monday in Beijing, although North Korea did not specifically mention the meeting. It also deals a blow to President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea, who has singled out closer ties with the North as a major pillar of his presidency. An aide to Mr. Kim declined to comment today.
But the suspension appeared to be a careful calculation not to destroy relations between the countries. In particular, North Korea is receiving lucrative benefits from recent business deals that it has struck with the South.
So the North seems to be walking a delicate line, trying to preserve the advantages of economic ties as it tries to retaliate for military losses and negotiate for political advantage. That may explain why it seems to be restricting visits to only Pyongyang, the capital. It appears that other regions of North Korea are not affected. But the declaration today was vague on that point.
A statement carried by the official North Korean news agency criticized the South for "bringing the situation of the country to the brink of war."
"We solemnly declare that we will restrict or suspend Pyongyang visits of South Koreans and their contacts with us for the time being in view of the serious situation created by the South Korean authorities," the statement said.
Patrol boats from the two sides circled today near the disputed waters in the Yellow Sea. North Korean boats did not try to cross the line, and there was no exchange of fire.
The United States said that it was dispatching additional forces to South Korea, and in particular it said that an Aegis-class cruiser, the Vincennes, would arrive soon, as well as electronic warfare aircraft and antisubmarine aircraft.
The confrontation began on June 7, when North Korean naval vessels escorted fishing boats south of the "northern limit line," the customary demarcation line that separates the seas of the two Koreas. The North does not recognize the line, but it had never challenged it so openly.
The North had periodically sent ships south of the line, but they ordinarily retreated when ordered back by the South. This time, however, the North Korean vessels refused to back off, and on Friday, South Korean vessels began to ram the North Korean boats.
On Tuesday, tensions exploded in gunfire. South Korean patrol boats sank a North Korean torpedo ship, killing all 17 aboard, and damaged at least five other North Korean vessels.
Two South Korean patrol boats were damaged, and seven South Korean sailors were slightly injured. South Korea put its entire armed forces on the combat level of alert, which is a state of emergency.
Although the United States Command in South Korea is closely watching the developments, it has not put its 37,000 troops on alert.
The disputed waters are rich in crabs. North Korea, suffering widespread famine, particularly values crabs, because it can export them for hard currency.
The two Koreas are still technically at war -- the Korean War ended in 1953 without a peace treaty -- and there are few visits between the sides. Still, several thousand South Koreans are in North Korea at any one time, many in various regions. One increasingly popular site is Mount Kumgang, a scenic spot where tours for South Koreans are run by the Hyundai Corporation, the largest chaebol in South Korea.
The tourism deal that the North struck with Hyundai is extremely attractive to North Korea, particularly because it has been receiving millions of dollars each month.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (89%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; YELLOW SEA; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (89%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); NAVIES (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); ARMED FORCES (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; KIM DAE JUNG (PRES) KIM DAE JUNG (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



352 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Zero Inflation In May Sends Stocks Soaring

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

 BODY:
After haunting investors for weeks, the specter of inflation suddenly retreated -- at least for now.
The Consumer Price Index, which jumped a scary seven-tenths of 1 percent in April, did not rise at all in May, the Labor Department reported yesterday. And the closely watched "core" inflation rate -- which excludes volatile food and energy prices -- edged up a mere one-tenth of 1 percent versus a four-tenths of 1 percent increase in April. 
 While the Federal Reserve is still expected to raise short-term interest rates at its meeting later this month, the absence of any signs of inflation last month eased worries that the Fed was about to embark on a sustained series of rate increases.
A wave of relief swept the stock and bond markets, which both rallied yesterday.
The Dow Jones industrial average advanced nearly 190 points, to 10,784.95, and the Nasdaq composite, encouraged as well by a surprisingly robust earnings report from the software maker Oracle, jumped more than 103 points, to 2,517.83, surpassing its previous record one-day point gain of 96.05, set Feb. 11. Yields on 30-year Treasury bonds fell as soon as the report was released, ending the day at 6.06 percent versus 6.11 late Tuesday.
"The market was expecting several tightening moves by the Fed," said Paul Kasriel, chief economist at Northern Trust. "Today's data lower the probability."
Indeed, a sustained campaign to raise interest rates such as the one conducted by the Fed from early 1994 to early 1995 seems much less likely now.
But most analysts say the Fed will probably engineer a modest rate increase of one-quarter of a percentage point at the end of its June 29-30 meeting. Not only have several voting members of the Fed's Open Market Committee been making hawkish noises in public lately, but all indications are that the economy is still growing too fast for the Fed's comfort.
"People are still very confused and very cautious," said Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch. "Everyone knows Greenspan is talking tomorrow and everybody expects him to give us the word."
Mr. Greenspan is scheduled to testify on the economy today to a Congressional committee.
To most Americans basking in the lowest unemployment and inflation rates since the 1960's, the notion that the Fed is fretting about a revival of inflation may seem puzzling, if not outlandish. But if the central bank waits for actual inflation to take off, analysts warn, it has probably waited too long. Fed actions may affect stock and bond prices instantly, but they take a lot longer -- a year or more -- to work their way through the economy.
"The Fed is worrying about what the C.P.I. will do six to 12 months down the road," said Nicholas Perna, chief economist at the Fleet Bank in Hartford.
In fact, when Fed officials issued a list of their concerns on April 18 in disclosing that their next move was more likely to be up than down, there was no mention of current inflation at all. Instead the Fed focused on factors affecting the speed of the eight-year-old expansion: strong domestic demand, tight labor markets and economic recoveries abroad.
Since then, the Government has released more data suggesting that the economy is not slowing down as much as expected. Yesterday only added more fuel to that fire. Housing starts rose 6.3 percent in May after a sharp drop in April, the Census Department reported. And the Fed said that factory output climbed for the fourth consecutive month in May as manufacturers churned out more cars and computers. Last week, there was fresh evidence that Germany and Japan were on the road to recovery.
Meanwhile, several forces that have helped restrain inflation are fading. Oil prices, which plummeted during the Asian crisis, have climbed recently. The increases have leveled off in the last six weeks or so, but as the rest of the world begins growing again further increases are likely. The same is true for the prices of commodities like copper and aluminum, which are still depressed but have been rising recently at the fastest pace in more than two years.
Still, there are few signs of the usual precursors of a sustained pick-up in inflation.
Productivity gains, which usually peter out as economic expansions get older, have sped up. Last quarter, productivity was up 2.7 percent from a year earlier, and over the last four years productivity growth has averaged 2 percent, twice the rate of the previous two decades.
As a result, labor costs per unit of output have been rising more slowly during this expansion than during any since the 1940's. They were up just 1.4 percent in the first quarter. Moreover, American industry, in the wake of a huge investment boom, has a lot of excess capacity. Even though production has been rising, the utilization rate is still around 80 percent.
"Producers would like to raise prices, but I'm not sure they can on a steady basis," said Katherine Kobe, an economist at Joel Popkin Associates, a forecasting firm based in Washington.
Today's low inflation is giving consumers plenty to celebrate. In May, the price of moving around fell. Gasoline prices, which accounted for half of April's surge in consumer prices, fell 1.3 percent after soaring 15 percent in April.
Air fares dropped, too, partly because fuel prices were flat. And despite near-record car sales, the prices of new and used models also declined.
Clothing also got cheaper, as it had been doing for some time until April. That's partly because so much of it is imported and partly because a lot of the fabrics are, too.
The price of shelter fell as well.
Computers continued to get cheaper, down nearly 2 percent last month. So far this year, computer prices have been falling at an annual rate of more than 30 percent.
Perhaps more important, given the graying of America, is that increases in the price of medical care, which had been rising briskly of late, slowed in May.
Some things that have been bargains did get more expensive last month, however. Food prices jumped six-tenths of 1 percent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph "Industrial Production" tracks total industrial production, 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted from December 1997 through May 1999.
(Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (82%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (82%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM ORACLE CORP (82%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (54%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (93%); BONDS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (67%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



353 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Will the Fed chief bare his chest when he discusses interest rates with Congress?

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer 

 BODY:
IAN SHEPHERDSON, the chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, is hoping for full disclosure today when Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, testifies before Congress.
For Mr. Greenspan to bare all his thoughts on the economic outlook would be startling. Still, that is what the bond and stock markets want after yesterday's report that a primary gauge of inflation, the Consumer Price Index, was unchanged in May, while the core rate, excluding food and energy, inched up just one-tenth of 1 percent. The news scrambled investor expectations. 
 Since mid-April bond investors had been doing interest rate fire drills in preparation for the Federal Reserve's meeting of policy makers at the end of the month. And after all that practice, they had braced for a quarter-point jump in the short-term interest rate target.
Then came the incredibly mild May inflation report. It made April's jump of seven-tenths of 1 percent -- the surge that started all the fire drills -- look like a fluke, not a trend toward troublesome inflation.
And with that the mood shifted yesterday in the bond market, which can change its mind every hour, much less every day, and which routinely overreacts. A rate increase by the Fed is still expected this month, but no longer considered "guaranteed." More importantly, the attitude about a possible second rate increase in August to further slow economic growth and ward off inflation has gone from very likely to wait and see. Mr. Greenspan, of course, could force a quick revision of that view today in his testimony about monetary policy before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress.
Mr. Shepherdson said the benign report on inflation shifted the odds of a Fed rate increase on June 30 to 50/ 50 from 80/20. "I don't like the uncertainty," he said. "I just want to know, either way," if the Fed is going to sit tight or raise interest rates.
"It would have been easier for the markets," he said, "if the C.P.I. number had been a big plus or a big minus" and investors could have been all but certain that the Fed would raise rates -- in the case of a plus -- or leave them unchanged -- in the case of a decline.
Right after the inflation report was released by the Labor Department at 8:30 A.M., the price of the 30-year bond jumped more than a full point, while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped to 6.02 percent, from 6.11 the previous day and an 18-month high of 6.16 percent last Friday.
But the 30-year bond gave up half of its early gains later in the day, with the price rising just 20/32 . The yield finished at 6.06 percent. Stocks had a stronger rally.
There is little chance for relief in the bond market until the Fed chairman speaks. In his three most recent appearances, Mr. Greenspan has done nothing to indicate that the bond market was wrong to expect a rate increase this month. His silence was followed by remarks from other members of the Fed, several considered hawks on inflation and supportive of a rate increase, who seemed to suggest a Fed move was a sure thing.
Mr. Shepherdson, who forecast an unchanged C.P.I. for May and saw no need for a rate increase now, said this silence was an indication that Mr. Greenspan would join with the hawks. "It's a great number," he said of the inflation report, "but I am not sure it's good enough" to keep the Fed on hold.
James E. Glassman, senior United States economist at Chase Manhattan Bank, also expects the Fed to raise interest rates this month. But his argument is based on the rapid pace of economic growth, rather than on the pace of inflation.
When Fed policy makers announced they were leaning toward a rate increase in May, they emphasized the "ongoing strength in demand" in the United States and the improved foreign economic prospects, he said. At the same time, they noted that "trend increases in costs and core prices have generally remained quite subdued."
So even though the core rate of inflation has risen just 1.8 percent this year, the fact that the economy is not showing signs of slowing significantly still gives the Fed a reason to raise rates, in Mr. Glassman's view.
Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, also argues that inflation is not what will make the Fed raise rates. He said that the Fed, as officials have signaled recently, needs to take back some of the three, quarter-point rate cuts it made last fall, when it moved to calm global financial markets and to insure that the world's economy would not head into a downturn.
Now both Asia and Latin America show signs of a turnaround, and global markets have stabilized. And overall consumer inflation is rising toward 2.5 percent from the 1.6 percent increase recorded last year. Given that environment, he said the Fed's short-term interest rate target, which is now 4.75 percent, is just too low for the present mix of inflation and economic growth.
All three agree that the inflation report -- if it is backed up in the months ahead -- means that a second rate increase may not be necessary. The recent jump in certain market barometers showed that many investors were beginning to bet on two one-quarter rate increases at least.
"The market may move quickly to a view that the Fed won't have to move any further," Mr. Glassman said.
But Mr. Shepherdson, as he thought of the Fed chairman's testimony today, said, "It's completely in Greenspan's court." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INFLATION (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



354 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-21
 
Thousands of Refugees Flood Back Into Kosovo
More than 12,000 cheering ethnic Albanians began their journey home. United Nations workers gave up trying to record the names at the Albanian border, leaving that task to Kosovo Liberation Army guerrillas. A1 

American marines seized weapons from more than 100 Albanian insurgents and detained six leaders. A1
 
Defense Secretary William S. Cohen and his Russian counterpart reported progress in deciding Russia's role in the peacekeeping force. A20
 
Two leaders of popular movements said in Belgrade that despite wide dissatisfaction with President Slobodan Milosevic's leadership, chances were slight for rapid change. A18
 
A senior American diplomat tried to convince Chinese officials that the bombing of China's Embassy in Belgrade was a mistake. A20
 
Kosovo Update A20
 
Security Chief for Arms Labs
Energy Secretary Bill Richardson named Eugene E. Habiger, a retired four-star Air Force general, to oversee security at the department. Mr. Richardson also suspended normal operations at three nuclear weapons laboratories for two days as part of a review of security. A15
 
Arms Agreement Extended
The United States and Russia concluded an agreement in Washington extending for seven years programs to reduce the threat posed by nuclear, biological, chemical and other weapons of mass destruction. A7
 
Tensions Grow in Korea
North Korea said it was suspending contacts with the South in response to the sinking of a torpedo boat. A10
 
Mexico Surveys Quake Damage
The 6.7-magnitude earthquake that struck on Tuesday killed 16 people, officials said, and damaged many colonial-era churches. A14
 
Pope Resumes Appearances
Pope John Paul II's fever subsided and he visited the small Polish town where he was born. Reminiscing about his youth, he recalled the fate of his Jewish landlord in the Holocaust. A16
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A24-28
 
House Tackles Issues Of Violence and Culture
A bitterly divided House began work on 44 amendments on cultural issues and crime, and 11 gun-control proposals. Tough mandatory minimum sentences to combat juvenile crime were approved, but the House rejected a proposal by the Judiciary Committee chairman, Henry J. Hyde, to make it a crime to expose children to movies, books or video games with explicit sex or violence. A1
 
Disability and Health Benefits
The Senate passed a bill to expand Medicaid and Medicare so that people with disabilities could retain their health benefits when they return to work. The House is expected to pass a similar measure. President Clinton supports the legislation. A28
 
Bar to Nominations Lifted
Senator James M. Inhofe rescinded his threat to block all nominations, after President Clinton promised to make no more recess appointments without notifying Senate leaders before a Congressional recess. A24
 
A Promise to Name Donors
Senator Russell D. Feingold, a Wisconsin Democrat who hopes to revive campaign finance legislation, said that in debates on legislation favored by interest groups, he would make a point of noting how much money they had given to candidates and parties. A28
 
Not Running With the Bulls
Financial disclosure statements show that several of the House's most powerful members have invested virtually none of their salaries in stocks, bonds or mutual funds. A27
 
Gore Launches Campaign
Vice President Al Gore took his first formal step out of President Clinton's shadow, announcing his quest for the Presidency with a pledge to "bring a new wave of fundamental change to this nation." A26
 
In Chimps, a Human Trait
Primatologists reported that chimpanzees display what has long been thought to be the sine qua non of humanness: cultural variation. A1
 
Hunt for a Killer in Texas
Hundreds of law-enforcement officers in Texas are searching for a serial killer believed responsible for the fatal bludgeoning of six people on or near railroad tracks. A24
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-16
 
Campaign Finance Plan Is Offered at 11th Hour
Governor Pataki proposed that New York place greater restrictions on the way politicians raise and spend money, but he presented his plan on the Legislature's last scheduled day, giving the measure almost no chance of passage anytime soon. A1
 
Call to Renew Superfund
Governor Pataki proposed spending nearly $4 billion during the next 20 years to extend the state's main program for cleaning up toxic waste. But he also sought to ease many of the Superfund program's stringent cleanup standards, as a way to spur businesses into developing thousands of abandoned industrial sites. B1
 
Stock-Manipulation Charges
Federal officials announced the indictments of 85 people who they said had swindled investors out of $100 million. Three suspects have ties to organized crime, officials said. B1
 
OBITUARIES C23
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Knicks Fall to Spurs
San Antonio took a 1-0 lead in the N.B.A. championship series, beating the Knicks, 89-77. D1
 
Record Sprint in Athens
Maurice Greene, a 24-year-old American, ran the 100 meters in 9.79 seconds, a new record. D1
 
Cyclists Banned From Race
The organizers of the Tour de France, responding to a year of doping scandals, banned four French riders, a Dutch team and the director and doctor of a Spanish team. D5
 
CIRCUITS G1-14
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Copyright Dispute Resolved
Vladimir Nabokov's son, Dmitri, and a publisher, Foxrock, have reached an agreement to let "Lo's Diary, " a retelling of "Lolita," be published in the United States in October. E1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-22
 
Inflation Threat Ebbs
The consumer price index, which jumped seven-tenths of 1 percent in April, did not rise in May, and the "core" inflation rate -- which excludes volatile food and energy prices -- edged up only one-tenth of 1 percent versus four-tenths of 1 percent in April. The news eased investors' concern that while the Fed might increase interest rates this month it was less likely to embark on a series of rate increases. C1
 
The stock markets surged. C11
 
Widespread strength in the nation's economic activity in April and May fostered growing shortages of workers and put mounting pressure on wages, the Fed said in a report Fed policy makers will use when they meet on June 29 and 30 to consider interest-rate strategy. C10
 
Bank Officials Investigated
German authorities are investigating the chief executive and five other current and former senior executives of Deutsche Bank who are suspected of helping clients to evade taxes. C1
 
S.E.C.-Bear Stearns Talks
Settlement talks were said to have broken down between the S.E.C. and Bear Stearns concerning its role as a clearing agent for small brokerage firms that defrauded investors. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-22
 
EDITORIAL A30-31
 
Editorials: Al Gore as the un-Clinton; lessons of the Balkan war; Mr. Pataki's campaign reform challenge.
 
Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.
 
 
Bridge E8
 
TV Listings E11
 
Crossword E8
 
Weather B14
 
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ALBANIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); POLAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (58%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (58%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); POLAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); REFUGEES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); GENOCIDE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (76%); APPROVALS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); AIR FORCES (72%); EARTHQUAKES (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); MEDICARE (69%); HOLOCAUST (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); MEDICAID (66%); RELIGION (64%); SENTENCING (61%); GUN CONTROL (61%); JUVENILE CRIME (61%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (60%); 

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (79%); BILL CLINTON (72%); JIM INHOFE (54%); RUSS FEINGOLD (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



355 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Presses Treaty to Ban the Worst Child Labor Practices

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: GENEVA, June 16

 BODY:
Appealing for a "human face" on the global economy, President Clinton urged the International Labor Organization today to adopt a treaty that would ban the most abusive child labor practices, including the use of children in pornography and prostitution.
The speech to the 174-member organization, Mr. Clinton's first appearance of his six-day European trip, underlined the Administration's insistence that free trade does not have to mean increased abuse of poor workers in developing countries. 
 "As we press for more open trade, we must do more to insure that all our people are lifted by the global economy," Mr. Clinton told e delegates of the labor organization gathered for their annual conference at the United Nations building here.
Among the conditions that the new treaty would outlaw are work dealing with toxic substances, and labor that is deemed harmful to children's health, safety or morals.
Mr. Clinton declared his support for the treaty after a compromise was reached on the recruitment of people under 18 year old into the military. The United States and Britain recruit 17-year-old volunteers. The treaty's final draft would now prohibit forced recruitment of children for use in armed conflict" but allow voluntary enlistment.
In another compromise, the treaty omits from its list of "worst forms" of child labor, work depriving children of education, a goal that some developing countries said was unrealistic. But Mr. Clinton used as a success story a program in Pakistan where the labor organization and the United Nations International Children's Education Fund joined forces to remove children under 14 from soccer ball production and replaced them with women needing the work. The children then were given a chance to attend school, he said.
As a worst case, Mr. Clinton singled out Myanmar, formerly Burma, where, he said, the labor organization just reported that "flagrant violation of human rights persists, and I urge the I.L.O. governing body to take definite steps."
In a recent report, the labor organization said 250 million children between the ages of 5 and 14 worked, mostly in Asia and Africa.
To reinforce the treaty that is expected to be adopted here and which the White House is urging the Senate to approve, Mr. Clinton issued an executive order last weekend directing Government agencies not to buy products made by forced child labor. The order mandates preparation of a list of countries and products that may involve forced labor. All Government agencies must then consult the list before purchasing and contractors must certify child labor is not involved in their products.
The child labor treaty does not include sanctions against countries that do not enforce the provisions. Instead, the labor organization makes persistent abuses known.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Clintons Dine With Chiracs
 PARIS, June 16 -- President and Hillary Rodham Clinton dined tonight with the French President, Jacques Chirac, and his wife, Bernadette, at a well-known Paris bistro, Chez L'Ami Louis.
The dinner was intended as an informal get-together before talks Thursday between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Chirac. Mr. Clinton is also scheduled to meet with Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, and will leave Thursday afternoon for Cologne, Germany, to attend the summit meeting of the seven leading industrial countries and Russia. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CHILD LABOR; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PROSTITUTION; PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); CHILD LABOR (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); OBSCENITY (78%); CHILD SOLDIERS (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (71%); SOCCER (71%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); EDUCATION FUNDING (64%); APPROVALS (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (55%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



356 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Labor Market Remains Tight Across U.S.

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16

 BODY:
Widespread strength in the nation's economic activity in April and May fostered growing shortages of workers and put mounting pressure on wages, the Federal Reserve said today.
"Labor markets remained very tight in almost all districts, with increased reports of upward pressure on wages in many parts of the country," the Fed's latest beige book summary of national economic conditions said. 
 The survey will be used by Fed policy makers meeting on June 29 and 30 to consider interest-rate strategy. There are widespread expectations that the central bank may raise interest rates to cool the economy and thus avert inflation. Today's report was more emphatic than the last beige book, issued on May 5, about the vigor of the expansion.
"The U.S. economy remains strong, with gains in activity widespread," said the summary, prepared by the Kansas City regional Fed bank and based on data collected before June 7.
Consumer spending was up nearly everywhere during April and May and consumers "remained upbeat about the economy," the report said. Auto sales were up, construction and real estate markets were booming and loan applications were strong.
Spending by optimistic consumers was the driving force behind the 4.1 percent annual rate of growth in gross domestic product, or G.D.P., in the first quarter. The beige book said spending "showed almost no signs of easing in April and May," with demand up for everything from new furniture to airline and cruise ship tickets.
The indication that the economy continued to roar ahead chilled some of the enthusiasm set off in financial markets by the Government's earlier release of data showing consumer prices were flat during May.
Treasury bond prices remained well into positive territory, but shed some gains after the beige book release lent weight to the notion that policy makers might fear growth was so strong that it could fan inflation.
The Fed's chairman, Alan Greenspan, is scheduled to offer his views to Congress on Thursday morning on the economy's prospects; his testimony has been intensely awaited by financial markets for clues about future Fed action.
A Reuters survey of Wall Street analysts today showed most expected Fed policy makers to announce an increase in interest rates on June 30 in a pre-emptive move to keep a damper on prices by making it more expensive to borrow.
Although the beige book cited pressure on wages, it said prices for most products "remain well behaved" except for some key construction materials like Sheetrock used in home building. It said, "The shortages have created rising construction costs."
Because of "extremely tight" labor markets, some manufacturers said they were having so much trouble finding employees that they could not meet demand for their products.
The Fed said the manufacturing sector continued to shake off a year and a half of sluggishness and was churning out electronics, machinery, trucks and construction equipment at an especially strong rate. Many producers reported healthy productivity gains stemming from increased capital spending on new plants and equipment.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Economy Remains Strong Amid Tight Labor Markets"
A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday.
 
MINNEAPOLIS -- Retail sales and housing markets were strong. Manufacturing grew but labor markets were tight.
CHICAGO -- The economy grew at a modest pace. Manufacturing and retail sales grew.
CLEVELAND -- The economy remained quite strong. Retailers reported very strong sales and labor markets were tight.
BOSTON -- The economy continues to grow. Retail sales were strong though labor markets were very tight.
NEW YORK -- The economy expanded, though at a slower pace. Housing prices rose and manufacturing slowed.
PHILADELPHIA -- Retailers and car dealers reported strong sales. Home sales were generally positive.
RICHMOND -- Housing sales were strong with prices rising sharply. Manufacturing grew at a moderate pace.
ATLANTA -- The economy grew moderately. Retail sales were mixed. Loan demand remained strong.
ST. LOUIS -- The economy showed continued strong growth. Retail sales and manufacturing grew at a brisk pace.
KANSAS CITY -- The economy remained solid but grew at a slower rate. Labor markets were extremely tight. Manufacturing improved.
DALLAS -- Economic expansion continued. Retail sales showed continued growth. New home sales rose and manufacturing was flat.
SAN FRANCISCO -- Economic activity remained robust. Retailers and car dealers reported stong sales. Housing demand grew.
Includes Alaska and Hawaii
(Source: Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; LABOR; SHORTAGES; WAGES AND SALARIES; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); STATISTICS (75%); BONDS (75%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (52%); TRAVEL TICKETS (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



357 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE APOLOGY;
In Beijing, Envoy Struggles to Persuade Chinese That Bombing Was a Mistake

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Thursday, June 17

 BODY:
Under Secretary of State Thomas R. Pickering spent Wednesday trying to convince determinedly skeptical Chinese officials that the bombing of China's embassy in Belgrade on the night of May 7 was a mistake. But after listening attentively, the Chinese made clear that they were not persuaded, American diplomats said today.
Mr. Pickering, supported by officials from the Defense Department and intelligence agencies, gave a detailed account of "a long series of errors over time" that led to the bombing, members of the delegation said. 
 The Chinese side, represented by Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan and Deputy Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi, "listened with respect and appreciation of the seriousness with which we spoke," an American diplomat said.
"They're digesting what we said," the diplomat said. "They have to think it through."
Mr. Pickering arrived with a letter of introduction from President Clinton that included an offer to pay compensation to the families of the victims. Three Chinese died in the embassy attack, which Chinese officials condemned as a deliberate act of aggression and which created severe strains in Chinese-American relations.
The officials refused today to give details of the oral and written explanations given to the Chinese, saying that the same information will soon be released to the American public.
But they said the previously offered theory involving a faulty map was far too simple to explain how NATO planners identified the Chinese Embassy as a military site and pummeled it with multiple bombs. "It was a more complicated series of mistakes than that," a diplomat said. "It wasn't just one faulty map."
Mr. Pickering spent more than four hours meeting with Mr. Yang and with other officials from the Foreign Ministry and the Chinese military. In the afternoon, he met with Foreign Minister Tang for about one hour. Wednesday evening, during a two-hour dinner with Mr. Yang and others, the two sides turned to discussion of bilateral and strategic issues, diplomats said.
China has demanded not only a full and public explanation of the bombing but also the punishment of those responsible, a condition the Americans may have difficulty meeting. On Wednesday the Americans promised that at the end of the investigation into the bombing "the issue of accountability will be addressed," the diplomat said, and the Chinese did not press the issue.
In a sign of the visit's sensitivity, not even the fact that the American delegation had arrived in Beijing was reported in the press here on Wednesday or this morning.
In the angry aftermath of the embassy bombing, China suspended talks with the United States on its proposed entry into the World Trade Organization as well as on human rights and arms control, and put off planned military meetings.
The two Governments are now feeling their way toward a new, perhaps more realistic, relationship than in the past, when both spoke of building a "constructive strategic partnership." Members of the American delegation said that no timetable for resuming economic or political negotiations had been set, but that it was now up to the Chinese to decide when to start.
Even before the bombing, China's leaders were angry over the NATO campaign in Yugoslavia, which they called an illegal intervention. Officials here described the embassy bombing as a crime, and encouraged the state-controlled press to run wild with accusations that it was an intentional act to keep China down.
In place of last year's friendly talk of partnership, top officials including President Jiang Zemin began warning about American plans for global domination, although they always maintained that business ties should continue.
Latent public resentment of American power erupted into days of rock-throwing demonstrations at the American Embassy in China, mainly by students. Their fury was genuine, but they also received support from the Government, which seemed to view the outpouring of nationalism as a useful way to divert attention from economic and political issues at home.
Few Chinese openly accept the proposal that the United States, with its technological wizardry, could have hit their embassy by mistake. And in the meetings on Wednesday, Chinese officials said they had a hard time believing that so many mistakes could have occurred at the same time. "But they also seemed to have a sense of confidence that this won't be swept under the rug," a diplomat said.
In the last two weeks, the vitriolic attacks on the United States have eased. Communist Party leaders have tried to channel the nationalistic energy into hard work and support for the party in its drive to build a stronger China that can better stand up to any attempts at foreign domination in the future.
Wednesday's newspapers reported the statement of the Foreign Trade Minister that the right atmosphere for negotiations over China's entry into the World Trade Organization will not be restored until "U.S.-led NATO" gives a satisfactory explanation for the bombing.
As they decide how to portray Mr. Pickering's visit, Chinese leaders face another delicate task: how to escape from a month of anti-American rhetoric and declare the resumption of, in Mr. Shi's words, a "good and friendly atmosphere."
An American diplomat said: "We don't have any illusions that they are going to turn on a dime and say, 'Oh, Chinese people, we got it wrong.' They may never buy our version of the facts."
But President Jiang and Prime Minister Zhu Rongji are both pragmatists who see American trade and investments as crucial to China's modernization.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; CHINA; BELGRADE (SERBIA); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; PICKERING, THOMAS R (UNDER SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (70%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



358 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
Yankee Trash May Preserve Rebel Shrine

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

DATELINE: CHARLES CITY, Va.

 BODY:
"ROBERT E. LEE played as a child under this tree," Charles H. Carter 3d said on Tuesday, speaking of his first cousin five times removed. Mr. Carter was standing by the enormous willow oak on the front lawn of his home, Shirley Plantation, on a bluff above the James River.
Mr. Carter is the 10th generation of his family to live on this land, which was settled in 1613, just six years after the founding of the Jamestown colony down the river. Today it is still a working plantation that grows wheat, corn, cotton and soybeans, although most of the family's income comes from the tourists who file through the landmark mansion and stroll around the elegant lawns and gardens. 
 It is Mr. Carter's ambition to carry on the family tradition and preserve these bucolic 700 acres, 20 miles southeast of Richmond. To do that, he wants New York City trash by the bargeload, and he has gone to court to get it.
"People may struggle to understand how solid waste fits into the picture here," he said. "Reporters love to write about bringing New York garbage into the home of Robert E. Lee's mother. But I'd never do anything to hurt my own backyard, and I'd never jeopardize our tourist business." He pointed a half-mile away to a stand of trees hiding a cove with a new port ready to receive sealed containers of trash.
"You won't see it, smell it or hear it," he said. "The only impact of the trash will be to help us keep this plantation the way it is. We need the income to preserve the buildings and the paintings and the the grounds, and to pay the inheritance taxes so it stays in the family."
Mr. Carter's $15 million container port, named Port Tobacco, was paid for by Waste Management Inc., the operator of the nearby landfill, where the trash would be taken by truck. But the cranes are sitting idle because of a new state law. The Virginia legislature, responding to the recent outcry from some politicians and journalists over the importing of Yankee trash, banned the shipping of garbage on the James River.
Seeking to overturn the law, Mr. Carter filed suit earlier this month along with the landfill company, the barge company and the Charles City County government. The prospect of diminished revenues from the landfill has already forced Charles City County to raise taxes and make cutbacks in its schools and police force.
"It makes no sense to ban just trash from the river," Mr. Carter said. "Right now six million tons of commercial cargo go by this house every year, and well over two million tons are classified as hazardous. There are industrial chemicals like carbolic acid and sulfuric acid, plus oil and aviation fuel.
"Trash is not even classified as a hazardous material. There'd be at most one barge every two days, and you wouldn't even be able to tell it from a barge carrying containers of televisions."
MAYBE the problem is the trash's provenance.
"If we were getting the trash from North Carolina," Mr. Carter said, "it'd probably be: 'Y'all come back now and bring some more.' They'd name the barge the Bobby Lee and everybody'd be happy. There's a special hatred for New York."
Mr. Carter was appalled by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's lack of political finesse in January, when the Mayor mentioned the "reciprocal relationship" between Virginians visiting New York's cultural attractions and New Yorkers who need a place to throw their garbage. But Mr. Carter understood the point that Mr. Giuliani had been trying to make about the comparative advantages of a crowded city and a sparsely populated area.
"Two-way trade is in both sides' economic interest," Mr. Carter said. "That's why this plantation was established here. The James River was the nation's first commercial highway. My ancestors had a port here to ship tobacco and lumber and other raw materials to London, and their ships would come back with finished goods. Now the market's New York, and we're essentially trading them the air space in our landfill for their really finished goods."
Such economic subtleties, of course, did not matter to Virginia politicians happy to appeal to voters' chauvinism. But it would be unfair to blame them entirely for the problem facing Mr. Carter and his neighbors. The trash war was also orchestrated by a powerful out-of-state corporation. For more on that, see this space on Monday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WM (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (64%); NAICS562213 SOLID WASTE COMBUSTORS & INCINERATORS (64%); NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (64%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (64%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (64%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASTE MANAGEMENT INC WASTE MANAGEMENT INC (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: WASTE MANAGEMENT INC

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLES CITY (VA); VIRGINIA; NEW YORK CITY; JAMES RIVER (VA); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; SHIRLEY PLANTATION (VA); SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; LANDFILL FAMILY (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); LANDFILLS (88%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (88%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (87%); LITIGATION (76%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); WHEAT FARMING (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); WRITERS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); POLICE FORCES (68%); COUNTIES (67%); LEGISLATION (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); ESTATE TAX (64%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN; CARTER, CHARLES H JOHN CARTER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



359 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 10; Column 4; Circuits 

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: The Wired Campus

 BODY:

To the Editor:
I read with interest "Coming Era of High-Speed Web Access Is Here and Now on College Campuses" (May 27), about how broadband access has changed the lives of many university students living on wired campuses like Columbia University. At Northwestern University we have a similar phenomenon: upperclassmen are lining up to live on campus, citing the advantage of Northwestern's broadband telecommunications system. 
 But for two years, the city of Evanston has been following a vision to provide every resident the same access our college students enjoy -- and more. Everyone will have the opportunity to be connected both to the Internet and to a sophisticated Intranet that will link everyone in Evanston to the school systems and City Hall and to hundreds of businesses and institutions. This effort is headed by Evanston Inventure, a private economic development entity.
We anticipate that our efforts will become a template for other communities.
 
RON KYSIAK
Evanston, Ill., June 7, 1999
 
The author is executive director of Evanston Inventure. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (84%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (84%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EVANSTON (ILL); UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BROADBAND (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (88%); DISTANCE LEARNING (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); WRITERS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); INTRANETS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999



360 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
RUSSIA: I.M.F. MEASURE REJECTED -- The lower house of Parliament rejected a proposed gasoline tax, a linchpin of an economic reform package that the International Monetary Fund has sought as a condition for resuming loans to the near-bankrupt Government. The 291-to-101 defeat raised questions about whether any form of a gas tax could be passed this year; however, I.M.F. officials indicated this week that they might approve new loans even if the bulk of the economic overhaul stalls in the legislature. Michael Wines (NYT)
 
BRITAIN: 'BLOODY SUNDAY' ANONYMITY -- The High Court ruled that 17 soldiers due to appear before a judicial inquiry into the "Bloody Sunday" killings of 14 unarmed Catholic civil rights demonstrators in Londonderry in 1972 could remain publicly anonymous. The soldiers had protested a decision ordering them to identify themselves, saying it might expose them to retaliation. The inquiry is a review of a speedy and widely disparaged investigation the same year that exonerated the paratroopers and faulted the protesters. Warren Hoge (NYT) 

IRELAND: BODY SEARCH LAGS -- Prime Minister Bertie Ahern said the police are scaling back their search for the remains of eight people executed as traitors and buried in the 1970's and 80's by the I.R.A. Acting on information provided by the I.R.A., the police have been digging in several areas, but have found only one body. The action by the I.R.A., which has refused appeals to provide additional details, was widely seen as a backfired attempt to improve its image and that of its political wing, Sinn Fein. James F. Clarity (NYT)
 
GERMANY: PROGRESS ON SLAVE WORKERS -- Just a week after lawyers for Holocaust victims walked out of talks with German industry over a fund to compensate Nazi-era slave workers, American and German officials said they were again making progress. "We restored the trust that had been somewhat fractured," said Undersecretary of State Stuart Eizenstat. German officials said U.S. lawyers appeared to have agreed on the need to shield companies from further litigation after the fund is under way. Edmund L. Andrews (NYT)
 
SPAIN: 36 NEW PINOCHET CHARGES -- Judge Baltasar Garzon added 36 new charges of torture against Gen. Augusto Pinochet, making a total of 108 from the period beginning in 1988. The former Chilean dictator has been under house arrest in London since October on Judge Garzon's warrant, and extradition hearings are set for Sept. 27 in London to determine if he must stand trial in Spain. Al Goodman (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO: HUMAN RIGHTS FUROR -- Human rights groups criticized Arturo Montiel, the gubernatorial candidate in the state of Mexico from the governing party, known as the PRI, for saying "human rights are for humans, not for rats," in a campaign ad pledging a harsh crackdown on crime. "The rats are in the PRI," responded Jose Luis Duran, the candidate of National Action, a pro-business party. Mr. Montiel holds a modest lead over Mr. Duran three weeks before the July 4 vote. The state, which surrounds the capital, is Mexico's most populous, with 11 million people. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 
ASIA
 
EAST TIMOR: U.N.'s COSTS -- The U.N. spent $52.5 million on its mission in East Timor between May 5 and Aug. 31, Secretary General Kofi Annan said in a report to the General Assembly. That covers the cost of recruiting 242 international officials, 425 volunteers, 274 civilian police, 50 military liaison officers and some 3,645 local agents involved in an Aug. 8 referendum in which some 400,000 people will be asked to choose between independence and autonomy under Indonesia. What a U.N. official called "concerns about security" could still delay the vote, but Mr. Annan's spokesman said no decision to delay had been made. Judith Miller (NYT)
 
AZERBAIJAN: CEASE-FIRE CRUMBLES -- Fighting has erupted along a cease-fire line between Azerbaijani and ethnic Armenian forces near the disputed enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh, Azerbaijani officials said. The Defense Ministry said both sides suffered losses, but it did not provide casualty figures. The enclave is recognized as part of Azerbaijan but has been held by its ethnic Armenian residents since 1994 after a six-year war in which about 35,000 people died and hundreds of thousands were forced from their homes. (Agence France-Presse)
 
INDIA, BANGLADESH: NEW BUS SERVICE -- India and Bangladesh signed an agreement to start a direct bus service between Calcutta and Dhaka. Service will start on June 29, with buses running six times a week between the two cities. (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
EGYPT: MILITANTS SENTENCED -- A military court sentenced four Muslim militants to life in prison with hard labor for what prosecutors said was a plot to assassinate President Hosni Mubarak at a presidential palace in Alexandria in 1996. Sixteen defendants were jailed for between 5 and 15 years. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
ANGOLA: U.N. ENVOY RETURNS -- The U.N. envoy to Angola, Issa Diallo, returned to Luanda three months after the U.N. decided to curtail its observer mission following renewed fighting between Government troops and Unita guerrillas. The war began again in November and the two sides continue to fight, mainly in central and northern provinces. (Agence France-Presse)
 
NIGER: GOVERNMENT VOTE -- The junta that seized power in April has ordered political parties to agree on a new system of government within two days so the proposal can be put to a referendum. The order comes after two parties rejected a draft constitution that would have shared power between a president and a prime minister. (Agence France-Presse)
 Compiled by Terence Neilan
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); APPEALS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); FUEL TAX (78%); APPROVALS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (74%); HOUSE ARREST (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); SLAVERY (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ARREST WARRANTS (71%); ARRESTS (71%); HOLOCAUST (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); TORTURE (60%); 

PERSON: BERTIE AHERN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



361 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE YEN GAINS. The yen rallied against the dollar as hopes for economic recovery in Japan increased demand for the nation's securities. In New York, the dollar settled at 119.25 yen, down from 120.43 on Wednesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since Jan. 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



362 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: A New Course on Iraq

 BODY:
The stalemate over Iraq's illegal biological and chemical weapons programs grows increasingly dangerous. United Nations inspectors have been barred since last December, leaving Baghdad free to rebuild its stocks of deadly toxins, germs and nerve gas in secret. Under these circumstances, the Clinton Administration is right to give provisional endorsement to a new United Nations resolution sponsored by Britain and the Netherlands that may point a way out of the impasse. In doing so, Washington has put aside its counterproductive insistence that sanctions against Iraq must remain in place as long as Saddam Hussein holds power.
The resolution offers Iraq a chance to earn temporary suspension of some economic sanctions. But to do so, it must re-admit U.N. weapons inspectors and fully honor a list of requirements they present. Before signing on to this resolution, Washington must make sure that its provisions will be rigorously interpreted and strictly enforced. 
 The resolution would form a new U.N. inspection commission. If allowed to resume work in Iraq, the new commission would draw up a list of "key tasks," outlining the specific steps Baghdad must take to disclose and destroy its illegal weapons and their ingredients. The list would include things Iraq has refused to do in the past, like providing unrestricted access to suspected weapons production and storage sites and turning over information on what has happened to ingredients Baghdad is known to have possessed. If Baghdad complies, it would be eligible for a four-month suspension of the nine-year-old ban on Iraqi oil exports. Payment for these exports would go to a United Nations account, and Iraq's use of the money would be carefully monitored and supervised. The suspension could be renewed at four-month intervals, depending on continued Iraqi cooperation.
The resolution also provides that the suspensions could eventually give way to a full lifting of sanctions once the inspectors are able to declare Iraq fully free of all illegal weapons -- a constructive change from the previous American insistence that sanctions could not end as long as Saddam Hussein remained in power. While it is extremely unlikely that the Iraqi dictator will ever comply with his disarmament obligations, he should be given every incentive to do so.
The resolution is likely to be submitted to the Security Council in the next few days. Washington should make clear that it expects the new commission to be led by someone as tough as the two previous chief inspectors, Rolf Ekeus and Richard Butler.
Russia or China might veto such a strict resolution. But these countries should recognize that it represents a significant shift in American and British diplomatic strategy on Iraq. To reject it would dangerously prolong the stalemate and needlessly extend the economic misery of the Iraqi people. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); NETHERLANDS (72%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); NETHERLANDS (72%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EDITORIALS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); INSPECTIONS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (60%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



363 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Hints of a Mild Fed Action

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, signaled yesterday that the Fed would take only the tiniest of steps to push up interest rates when its Open Market Committee meets at the end of this month. That is likely to have only a mild impact on the economy.
Mr. Greenspan, in Congressional testimony, referred to "modest pre-emptive action" to head off inflation, which probably means that the Fed will raise the Federal funds rate -- the rate at which banks borrow from one another -- by only a quarter of a percentage point. That would reverse just one of the three cuts made last year when the Fed was worried about world recession. 
 The economy appears to be growing at a rate of about 4 percent a year, a rate Mr. Greenspan believes is unsustainable without bringing on unacceptable inflation. He wants to slow that to about 3 percent, which would still be a healthy rate.
As Mr. Greenspan noted, the current expansion, which began in 1991, will be the longest in American history if it extends through next February. Credit for that excellent performance is widely shared. Fiscal and monetary policy have been generally good, but they would not have been enough without the burst of productivity brought on by technological advances or without international events that have helped to make the United States an attractive place for investment while also restraining inflationary forces.
Such a favorable economic environment, as Mr. Greenspan noted, "can induce investors to take on more risk and drive asset prices to unsustainable levels." He is clearly worried that stock prices may be too high, but is not inclined to second-guess "hundreds of thousands of informed investors."
Instead, he is confident that the Fed can limit the economic damage if there is a crash. "While bubbles that burst are scarcely benign, the consequences need not be catastrophic for the economy," he said. That sounds markedly different from the old Greenspan, who 30 months ago warned investors against "irrational exuberance" and urged central bankers not to underestimate "the complexity of the interactions of asset markets and the economy." The new Greenspan is brimming with self-assurance. Let us hope the market does not test his new confidence. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); EDITORIALS; INTEREST RATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); TESTIMONY (73%); HISTORY (52%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



364 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Nominee Is Closely Questioned

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17

 BODY:
During the height of the Mexican peso crisis in 1995 Lawrence H. Summers was the favorite target of the Senate Finance Committee. He was viewed as the scheming architect of an end-run around Congress that resulted in the $12 billion Mexican bailout. Some Republicans called for his resignation.
Today virtually all the members of the same committee said they expected Mr. Summers, the Harvard economist whom President Clinton nominated last month to succeed Robert E. Rubin, to easily win approval as the 71st Treasury Secretary of the United States. 
 But first they wanted him to suffer a little.
In a three-hour confirmation hearing today Mr. Summers twice apologized for saying over lunch with a small group of reporters in 1997 that Republicans wanted to cut estate taxes because of "selfishness." ("What I said there was wrong," Mr. Summers said today. "It is always wrong to impugn motives in these kinds of policy debates.")
He sparred at length with an angry Senator Bob Kerrey, the Nebraska Democrat, about the Administration's plans for financing Social Security. Pressed on the question of whether the Administration would raise payroll taxes, he would say only that Mr. Clinton would not raise "payroll tax rates," leaving open the possibility that the Administration could find other ways to raise revenue, including increasing the ceiling on incomes that are subject to the tax. Currently, it applies to the first $72,000 in income.
And then Mr. Summers and Mr. Kerrey entered a lengthy debate on the question of how the Government would pay to convert into cash Treasury bonds that President Clinton proposes to place in the Social Security trust fund so that it does not run out of money. Mr. Summers ducked and dodged a bit until Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, the ranking Democrat on the committee, exclaimed:
"Larry, it's taxes!" Mr. Summers later acknowledged that the general revenue pool of the Government would have to be tapped to liquidate the bonds, leading Mr. Kerrey to conclude that the President's solution to saving Social Security was no solution at all.
"That's the President's answer to the problem," Mr. Kerrey said. "Take the current problem that we have of using more individual and corporate income taxes to pay Social Security beneficiaries and consider it to be a virtue."
"We would see it differently," Mr. Summers said, clearly trying to obey the unwritten mandate that nominees should never engage in lengthy arguments with senators voting on their confirmation.
For all the heat of the exchanges, there was never any real question that Mr. Summers is likely to be confirmed. The last real obstacle was surmounted on Wednesday, when the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, announced that he had negotiated a deal that would lift a freeze on all Senate confirmations. The freeze had been declared, under the rules of senatorial privilege, by Senator James M. Inhofe, a Republican from Oklahoma. Mr. Inhofe said he was outraged that President Clinton had issued a recess appointment for James C. Hormel as Ambassador to Luxembourg. Mr. Hormel is a gay businessman, and the appointment was made when the Senate was out of session to avoid opposition to his confirmation.
Mr. Summers had clearly trained for today's hearing, suppressing his occasional tendency to respond to questions with a quick and sometimes cutting quip, and an attitude that demonstrated he knew far more about a subject than the questioner. It was this approach that contributed to his troubles in 1995. Nonetheless, today one of the senators who was most vocal in opposing the Mexican bailout, Frank H. Murkowski, an Alaska Republican, conceded that he had been wrong. "I think it is fair to say that you and Secretary Rubin proved that you were on a correct path," Mr. Murkowski said today, an acknowledgment that Mexico both recovered and repaid its loans from the United States.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence H. Summers testifying before the Senate Finance Committee yesterday. Though some senators took their shots at the economist, his confirmation as the next Treasury Secretary is expected. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (US) TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); BONDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); APPROVALS (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (69%); ESTATE TAX (69%); INCOME TAX (65%); RESIGNATIONS (57%); 

PERSON: SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H LAWRENCE SUMMERS (92%); BILL CLINTON (90%); TRENT LOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



365 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: The New Key to Employee Loyalty May Unlock a Leased BMW

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: HOLMDEL, N.J., June 17

 BODY:
Forget dental benefits and stock options. When Al Galdi was searching for a perk to inspire employee loyalty, he wanted something a bit more, well, dynamic.
Today Mr. Galdi, chief executive of Arcnet, which designs and builds wireless communications systems, handed keys to 28 new BMW's to company workers ranging from administrative assistants to architects. Under a new company policy, every employee on the job at least a year gets a leased BMW, plus fully paid insurance. Turnover has been such that of 57 workers, only half qualified. But the other half can taste it. 
 This dramatic gesture, which some might call extravagant in the extreme, was anything but that to Mr. Galdi, who told of constantly losing trained people to rivals. Weighing the cost of recruiting, retraining and lost business, he estimated that the privately held company, which does $15 million in sales annually, had been spending nearly $1 million a year just to keep up.
"We ran the numbers and this made sense because it gave us something that made us stand out from the crowd," he said. "It is going to be better than a raise, because every time they turn that ignition key, they will think of me and the company."
The new perk turned what was by most measures a happy shop into an ecstatic one, said Lauren Catalano, an administrative assistant for 19 months. She was standing next to her silver BMW, with the other new cars in the company parking lot.
The bestowing of keys took on a carnival atmosphere, with Mr. Galdi, 36, as the chief barker. Family members sat in balloon-festooned bleachers, hot dogs were cooked under a tent and employees drove their BMW's around the parking lot in a horn-honking caravan.
While unusual, Mr. Galdi's gesture is not singular. At least two other small companies, Revenue Systems Inc. of Alpharetta, Ga., and Net2000 Communications of McLean, Va., have provided a range of workers with a luxury BMW. And according to Michael F. Carter, vice president of Hay Group, a human resources consulting firm, it fits in with employers' need for dramatic moves to counter the triple woes of a tight, competitive job market in highly technical fields, decreased loyalty and lingering cynicism in the wake of the mega-layoffs of the early 1990's.
"This is a super-flashy, extreme version of a far less dramatic trend among employers who are trying to do different and unusual things to distinguish themselves," said Mr. Carter, whose firm surveys trends in benefits packages.
More common, less costly moves, Mr. Carter said, included signing bonuses, "work-life benefits" like telecommuting, flexible hours, job-sharing arrangements and "convenience benefits" like on-premises dry cleaning pickup. But none, he said, can dazzle like a free BMW.
Dazzling was precisely what Mr. Galdi had in mind when he appropriated the idea from Revenue Systems. Bill Glover, that company's chief executive, said he too was drowning in headhunter and retraining costs when he hit on the idea of providing each employee with a choice of the 3 series BMW or the Z3 Roadster.
"We had all the benefits that you could expect, from full medical and dental to 401(k), but we still didn't have the visibility we wanted to attract the kind of people we needed," said Mr. Glover, whose 70-employee company provides software for government revenue collection.
Mr. Galdi echoed those sentiments today as he told employees he wanted to give them the "ultimate benefit." In an interview he acknowledged that the publicity was likely to expose his firm to potential employees who are not among that "homogenized group of currently unemployed" job seekers but "the stable, longtime employed" with other firms.
The lease on each $31,000 car runs about $7,000 a year, while insurance is about $2,000. (And employees must pay tax on this added income.) The cost of the first batch, Mr. Galdi said, is about $270,000 a year. This compared "very favorably," he said, with the roughly $900,000 he had spent on recruitment and training over the last 18 months.
George Slocum, a 51-year-old purchase order coordinator who came to the company three years ago after being "downsized" by a large heating oil distributor, said that before the BMW offer he might have entertained other job offers, but not now. He has sold his Mercury Grand Marquis, happily settled into his forest green BMW with the tan interior and plans to stick around.
A new employee, Barton Stabler, 41, who came on as communications and marketing director about a week ago, also plans on staying the "11 months, 27 days, 3 hours" he says it will take to get his car. The car offer was not his reason for applying to the company, he said, but he conceded that it had a lot to do with his decision to take the job after being self-employed for 13 years.
Ms. Catalano said she felt like one of those running, screaming, jumping winners on "The Price Is Right." Perhaps the only downside, she said, came after her photo appeared with a article about the plan in the local paper. After she went into a local BMW dealer to order her car, several men she did not know started persistently calling her at the office asking her out on dates.
"I think maybe they wanted me for my car," she said with mock horror.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: ARCNET NET2000 COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARCNET

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS EMPLOYMENT (93%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); JOB SHARING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TELECOMMUTING (89%); TRENDS (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); FLEXTIME (78%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); 

PERSON: GALDI, AL AL GALDI (94%); MICHAEL F CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



366 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Siemens and Fujitsu to Join European Computer Units

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, June 17

 BODY:
Hoping to close the gap with bigger American computer rivals, Siemens of Germany and Fujitsu of Japan said today that they would combine their European computer businesses.
The new entity, with total annual revenue of more than $6 billion, would rank as the world's fifth-largest computer maker after Compaq, Dell Computer, I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard. 
 Fujitsu and Siemens said they hoped to cut expenses, mainly by obtaining more bargaining power with suppliers and by spreading research and development costs over a broader base. The deal also gives Fujitsu access to a better distribution network in Europe, which it has long needed.
For Siemens, of Munich, the move represents the latest step in a corporate overhaul aimed at streamlining the company. Siemens is currently spinning off its semiconductor business, with annual revenue around $3.5 billion, through a public stock offering early next year. It is also pushing deeper into the Internet business, having recently reached agreements to acquire three young American software companies.
Siemens appears to be contributing far more to the deal than Fujitsu. Its computer division has about $4.2 billion in annual sales and 8,000 employees, while Fujitsu Computers Europe has sales of $2.1 billion and 1,600 employees.
Both companies glossed over the apparent imbalance, suggesting that Fujitsu had contributed more valuable assets and has a stronger focus on information technology.
Heinrich von Pierer, chairman of Siemens, had originally hoped to sell the personal computer business to Acer of Taiwan. But that deal fell through last year, when the Asian financial crisis forced Acer to back out.
The new deal could help Siemens achieve enough volume to keep up with bruising price competition. Siemens, though the biggest personal computer manufacturer in Germany, produced only 1.5 million units last year. The combined entity plans to produce more than four million.
Siemens and Fujitsu also sell a fairly broad range of other equipment, from computer networks and servers to big mainframe systems.
Neither has generated meaningful profit from computers, said Frank Alexander Rothauge, head of the technology group at Oppenheimer & Company here.
But analysts said the merger should strengthen their ability to make money even as computer prices come down.
"The advantages are mainly on the cost side," Mr. Rothauge said. "The challenge is really to make use of the scale in order to actually reduce costs of purchasing."
Many analysts had speculated that Siemens might simply sell its entire computer business, and there were some signs that investors were disappointed that such a divestiture had not taken place. Siemens shares, after surging to a record high of 73 euros in midday trading here, settled back to close at 71.61 euros, up 1.43 percent. Reaction was far more positive for Fujitsu shares, which rose 110 yen, or 5 percent, in Tokyo to 2,290 yen.
"This is not an exit strategy for Siemens -- it is quite the opposite," Mr. von Pierer said.
The two companies predicted that the new venture would increase sales to about $8 billion in 2000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two big companies make computers, among other things, but not much money at it. So Rudi Lemprecht, left, of Siemens, and Naoyuki Akikusa, of Fujitsu, explained their plan to combine the units in Tokyo yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (92%); SIE (LSE) (92%); SIE (FRA) (92%); SIE (BIT) (92%); SI (NYSE) (92%); FUJ (LSE) (92%); 6702 (TSE) (92%); HPQ (NYSE) (73%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (90%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPE (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); TAIWAN (58%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (58%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG; FUJITSU LTD SIEMENS AG (92%); FUJITSU LTD (92%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (73%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (63%); FUJITSU SIEMENS COMPUTERS GMBH (57%); FUJITSU OF JAPAN (94%); ACER OF TAIWAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIEMENS AG; FUJITSU LTD FUJITSU OF JAPAN (94%); ACER OF TAIWAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (90%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPE (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); TAIWAN (58%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; EUROPE COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MERGERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (70%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); PRICE CUTTING (68%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



367 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan All but Announces That an Interes t Rate Rise Is Ahead

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, gave the clearest indication yet today that the central bank will raise interest rates by a quarter percentage point later this month.
Speaking to a Congressional committee, Mr. Greenspan acknowledged that inflation is currently negligible, as shown by the report on Wednesday that the Consumer Price Index did not rise at all last month. 
 But to applause from many economists -- and in the face of skepticism from politicians of both parties who have grown increasingly convinced of the economy's ability to expand at a robust pace without much risk of accelerating prices -- he laid out a case for why the Federal Reserve sometimes needed to act well before inflation took root.
Sounding more like the Greenspan of old, a hard-line advocate of price stability, than his more recent incarnation as apostle of a new, technology-driven economy, the Fed chairman said that growth was on an "unsustainable trend," and warned somewhat ominously that the excesses of human nature had brought all expansions to an end.
Mr. Greenspan said that continued strong growth -- fueled in part by booms in the stock market and in housing prices -- could soon lead to a shortage of workers, a condition that has historically set off a spiral of rising wages and prices.
Mr. Greenspan did not flatly say he would call for a rate increase when the Federal Reserve next meets to set policy on June 29 and 30. Instead, he coupled his warning about the brewing inflationary pressures with a call for the central bank to act sooner rather than later when it spots strains that could derail the economy further down the line.
"When we can be pre-emptive we should be, because modest pre-emptive actions can obviate the need of more drastic actions at a later date that could destabilize the economy," Mr. Greenspan told the Joint Economic Committee.
Analysts quickly connected the dots and concluded that Mr. Greenspan was all but guaranteeing a quarter-point increase in rates at the end of the month. That would bring the benchmark Federal funds target rate to 5 percent.
Mr. Greenspan gave little guidance, though, about whether the central bank would tighten policy further later in the year. Economists said that he wanted to keep his options open while he waited to see whether growth slowed.
"They want to put some measure of financial restraint in place to moderate demand early enough to head off a significant problem," said Robert V. DiClemente, an economist at Salomon Smith Barney in New York.
Mr. Greenspan's testimony appeared to bring to an end speculation that the Federal Reserve had adopted a "Bunker Hill" strategy of waiting to fire until inflation was staring it in the face, Mr. DiClemente said.
Mr. Greenspan has been a primary proponent of the view that huge investments in computers and telecommunications are revolutionizing American business and making it much more productive. But today he seemed to be signaling that his faith in new technology should not be confused with his willingness to take early and perhaps unpopular action to squelch the Fed's old nemesis, inflation.
He even provided a simple bit of arithmetic to back up his case for an early tightening. The economy, he said, has grown 4 percent a year for the last three years. Of that, improvements in productivity, or output for each hour worked, account for two percentage points. Another percentage point represents the growth in the working-age population.
The remaining percentage point, he said, is accounted for by dipping ever deeper into the pool of available workers, a trend that could not be sustained much longer given the low unemployment rate, now 4.2 percent. The smaller the pool of available workers, the greater the pressure on wages, and ultimately prices.
With growth remaining strong and the global financial crisis having receded, the Federal Reserve signaled last month that it might soon begin reversing the three rate cuts -- each a quarter-point -- it made last fall. Since the May meeting of the Fed's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee -- when members adopted and announced a formal bias toward a tighter monetary policy -- Fed officials have gradually prepared investors for the likelihood of a rate increase this month. Thus, Mr. Greenspan's statements today did not shock anyone on Wall Street.
Apparently interpreting Mr. Greenspan to be suggesting that one rate rise might be enough, the bond market rallied, sending the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond back below 6 percent. Stocks rose modestly, with the Dow Jones industrial average finishing 56.68 points higher at 10,841.63.
Clearly sensitive to the need to soothe Wall Street, where higher interest rates tend to be bad news over the long run for both stocks and bonds, Mr. Greenspan reassured investors that the Fed's goal was not to end the bull market.
"Betting against markets is usually precarious at best," Mr. Greenspan said, adding that monetary policy should focus on price stability for goods and services.
The Depression in the United States and the problems of recent years in Japan were not caused by the bursting of asset bubbles, Mr. Greenspan said, but by bad economic policy in the years following the market crashes.
"Should volatile asset prices cause problems, policy is probably best positioned to address the consequences when the economy is working from a base of stable product prices," he said.
Mr. Greenspan has won widespread acclaim for his management of monetary policy for the last 12 years. But his broad hints today about his intention to raise rates drew quick responses from politicians of both parties, who questioned the justification for tightening policy in the absence of inflation.
Mr. Greenspan's argument in favor of an early tightening drew skepticism and in one case pointed criticism from Democrats who heard him testify before the Joint Economic Committee.
Representative Maurice D. Hinchey, a New York Democrat, said that raising rates now would send a signal that the Fed's policy is to put an end to strong growth just as all working Americans are benefiting from plentiful jobs and higher wages.
"I know that's not what you want to do," Mr. Hinchey told Mr. Greenspan, who tried in vain to cut him off. "But that will be the effect if you give in to this notion that interest rates need to be raised now."
Steve Forbes, who is running for the Republican Presidential nomination, also warned Mr. Greenspan against raising rates now. In a statement issued in Iowa, where farmers have been hard hit by falling prices for agricultural products, he said that the real threat was deflation, not inflation, and suggested that Mr. Greenspan could become a political issue if he enacted a series of rate increases as the Presidential campaign proceeds.
"The threat of resurgent inflation exists only in the fevered minds of the Federal Reserve and the Clinton-Gore Treasury Department," Mr. Forbes said. "Jacking up interest rates now would be a pre-emptive strike against American prosperity, not against inflation."
Mr. Greenspan defended the need to attack inflation before it became a problem, with such criticism in mind. The combination of strong growth and low unemployment, he said, had not yet put the expansion at risk.
"But should labor markets continue to tighten, significant increases in wages, in excess of productivity growth, will inevitably emerge, absent the unlikely repeal of the law of supply and demand," Mr. Greenspan said. "Because monetary policy operates with a significant lag, we have to make judgments, not only about the current degree of balance in the economy, but about how the economy is likely to fare a year or more in the future under the current policy stance."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, testified yesterday before Congress. (Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NQE (AMEX) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; FEDERAL RESERVE BANK US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INFLATION (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); TRENDS (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (65%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



368 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Ford Raises Productivity At Its Plants

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 17

 BODY:
The big difference in labor productivity between American and Japanese auto makers in the 1980's, then a matter of considerable dismay in the United States, has been sharply reduced by Ford, but General Motors and DaimlerChrysler still lag, according to a comprehensive study released today.
Two decades ago, Japanese car makers enjoyed a labor cost advantage of roughly $1,000 a vehicle, adjusted for inflation, according to Harbour & Associates, a manufacturing-consultant in Troy, Mich., which published its annual productivity report today. The labor cost difference has persisted for G.M. and DaimlerChrysler, which have only improved as quickly as the Japanese makers. 
 But Ford has cut the gap in half, and has nearly eliminated it, if Ford's huge costs for retired workers are excluded. Ford factories are now almost as efficient and in some case more so than Japanese-owned factories in North America, which in turn are almost as efficient as Japanese company factories at home.
Because the majority of Japanese-brand cars sold in North America are now assembled here, Detroit auto makers now compete most directly with North American factories, unlike in the 1980's, when they competed mainly with cars from plants in Japan.
In terms of the number of hours of labor needed to produce each vehicle, the most efficient assembly plant in North America last year was the Toyota Corolla factory in Cambridge, Ontario, which required 17.66 hours for a vehicle. The next two in order of productivity were the Ford Taurus factories in Atlanta and Chicago, at 17.72 and 18.09 hours of labor a vehicle, respectively.
The most efficient light-truck factory in North America last year was the Ford Explorer sport utility vehicle factory in Louisville, Ky., at 19.29 hours. It was the first time that an American-owned factory has led either of Harbour's lists of the most efficient car and light-truck factories.
Ford's overall productivity in North America is now almost the same as that of Nissan, Honda and Toyota, according to the report. By contrast, G.M. and DaimlerChrysler still require nearly 50 percent more labor for a vehicle.
Ronald Harbour, the president of Harbour & Associates, said that G.M. and DaimlerChrysler were still spending billions of dollars annually for unscheduled overtime, mainly because of factory-equipment breakdowns and the need to repair cars that do not come off the assembly line in salable condition. By contrast, he said, Ford has done a much better job maintaining factories and managing production to avoid unscheduled overtime.
G.M. issued a statement today noting that it had two factories on Harbour's list of the 10 most efficient car assembly plants, and two more on the list of the most efficient light- truck factories. The G.M. factories were near the bottom of each list. Ford had four of the most efficient car factories and six of the most efficient light-truck factories.
DaimlerChrysler had no factories on either list. David Barnas, a DaimlerChrysler spokesman, said that the auto maker believes it has an edge in vehicle design. Mr. Harbour said that DaimlerChrysler's profits a vehicle, at $1,470 last year, were the highest in the world, partly because of attractive designs and also because of the company's heavy reliance on sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and minivans, which are all very profitable.
Ford's wage and benefit costs now exceed those in Japanese-owned factories in North America by only $154 a vehicle, according to today's report. The cost of pensions and retiree benefits put Ford at an additional disadvantage of $348 a vehicle because Ford has as many retirees as active workers.The Japanese factories in North America have virtually no retirees.
G.M. and DaimlerChrysler's wage and benefit costs lag behind the Japanese by roughly $500 a vehicle. Their retiree costs are also slightly higher than Ford's.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (54%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (F) FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO (F)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (54%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT PRODUCTIVITY (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); OVERTIME (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



369 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: News Corp. Agrees to Buy Two PublishersFrom Hearst

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL and GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
Intensifying the consolidation of the nation's top book publishers, the News Corporation announced a deal yesterday to expand HarperCollins with the purchase of the Hearst Corporation's Avon Books and William Morrow & Company.
With the acquisition, estimated at less than $180 million, HarperCollins will remain the nation's second-ranking trade publisher of popular titles, but will expand its share of the $8 billion consumer book market to more than 10 percent. Together, Avon and Morrow are ranked eighth among trade publishers. 
 The new combination will increase the popular commercial presence of HarperCollins, which publishes writers like Barbara Kingsolver and John Gray, and extend its reach into the mass market through Avon Books, the second-oldest paperback publisher in the United States. The potential union will also deepen its children's offerings through Morrow, which was founded in 1926, and publishes best-selling children's authors like Beverly Cleary.
The expansion of HarperCollins, which is second in size to Bertelsmann's Random House, comes in a market for popular books that has been roiled by consolidation within the ranks of the top 10 trade publishing houses.
With this latest deal, few publishing giants remain that are ripe for future sales, but consolidation is quickening in other categories of publishing and reaching the second tier of midlevel publishing companies that have remained independent thus far. The interest comes not just from publishers. Distributors are buying small presses, for instance. Even the nation's largest bookstore chain, Barnes & Noble, has become one of the leading suitors for Friedman/Fairfax Publishers, a New York company specializing in nonfiction and illustrated gardening and home decorating books, according to a person with knowledge of the negotiations. A Barnes & Noble spokeswoman, Mary Ellen Keating, declined to comment, saying the company does not discuss "speculation with regard to potential business transactions."
Yesterday, the educational and professional publisher John Wiley & Sons announced that it had closed its $82 million acquisition of the San Francisco publisher Jossey-Bass, a deal that immediately followed its $58 million purchase of a list of 60 college titles from Pearson P.L.C. -- which sold the titles and Jossey-Bass as part of its purchase and breakup of a large part of Simon & Schuster last year.
Several years ago, the News Corporation considered selling HarperCollins, but having kept it, it is now trying to expand, a move that spreads the heavy costs of operating a publishing company over a broader base. HarperCollins, which got $200 million of its total $737 million in sales last year from Britain, is also said to be involved in discussions to increase its clout abroad through a possible merger of its foreign operations in Britain with Penguin/Putnam, which is owned by Pearson, or W. H. Smith, Britain's largest book retailer, which recently bought a large stake in the British publisher Hodder Headline.
HarperCollins's announcement of its planned purchase drew mixed reviews, but it appeared that the expansion was not big enough to prompt any organized effort to challenge it for anticompetitive reasons and executives expect the deal to be completed within about 30 days.
The New York-based Authors Guild, which took its challenge of Bertelsmann's purchase of Random House last year and its union with Bantam Doubleday Dell to Federal regulators, said it would probably not follow the same strategy in this case.
Letty Cottin Pogrebin, an author and the president of the organization, said that HarperCollins was not expanding enough to prompt Federal disapproval for antitrust reasons. She noted, however, that she remained wary about the union of more imprints under Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation because of a 1998 incident in which HarperCollins dropped the publication of a book by Chris Patten, the last British Governor of Hong Kong. In that case, Mr. Murdoch blamed publishing executives who "screwed it up" for the cancellation, although the decision was widely attributed to Mr. Murdoch's desire to avoid antagonizing the leaders of China, where he has large media investments.
At HarperCollins, the company's chief executive, Jane Friedman, said that the planned purchase of Avon and Morrow was the News Corporation's "stamp of approval" of the effort to turn around HarperCollins. HarperCollins struggled through a bleak period in 1997 when it canceled about 100 book contracts and took a $270 million charge.
"I'm thrilled, I'm thankful and this says that we are here to stay," Ms. Friedman said. "And to be here, to stay in this competitive environment one has to do something."
She said that it was too early to answer whether any of HarperCollins's imprints would be merged with the publishing units of Morrow and Avon, which between them have 22 imprints and publish 1,000 books annually. Both Morrow and HarperCollins, for example, each have six children's book imprints.
The appeal of the union, Ms. Friedman said, is that "you've got a bigger market share and you've got economies of scale, which of course we all are looking for." She added, "We are obviously going to be looking at some consolidation, but nothing to speculate on at this point."
William M. Wright, the chief executive of the Hearst Book Group, which is the unit that presides over Avon and William Morrow, will remain a Hearst employee, but will participate in the transition.
Asked about potential job reductions, Ms. Friedman said she could not comment because she first needed to "get to know people."
But some literary agents remained concerned about the potential consolidation, although the sale could benefit some writers. On the one hand, the company's expansion could increase advances for established commercial writers because HarperCollins will have more resources to compete for authors in high demand within the industry, said Robert Gottlieb, a literary agent and executive vice president of the William Morris Agency.
But at the same time, he said: "It makes my job much more difficult. There are fewer places now to grow new writers. Whenever these companies make new acquisitions, the first thing they say is that it's going to be business as usual. But the reality is that they try to create a greater level of production and greater margins, by cutting down on their business."
Behind all this activity is the hard reality that most publishing companies have single-digit profit margins, hovering around 8 percent while educational publishers are much more profitable, with margins of 17 to 22 percent.
Typically, trade publishers are sold for lower multiples than other types of publishers, usually for one to 1.2 times sales revenues. The News Corporation is buying Morrow and Avon for less than $180 million -- a price that is not a premium one because the companies' sales revenues last year totaled about that amount. The price is also less than the $220 million that they were asking for six years ago when MCA's Putnam Berkeley Group considered buying the companies.
By merging, a buyer gets saving on warehousing, distributing, order processing and marketing, all of which can be spread across a broader number of books.
Using that logic, some analysts believe that Time Warner, which owns Warner Books and Little Brown & Company, might well be interested in acquiring Simon & Schuster.
However, a person close to Time Warner said that the company had no intention of expanding its publishing business dramatically. Time Warner gets some leverage on paper costs and fulfillment because it has a large magazine operation, which has been an advantage, but "it's a very tough business," this person said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (93%); NWS (ASX) (93%); PSON (LSE) (81%); PSO (NYSE) (81%); JWB (NYSE) (53%); JWA (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (95%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (NWS); HEARST CORP (X.HRS); AVON BOOKS; WILLIAM MORROW & CO HEARST CORP (95%); NEWS CORP (93%); WILLIAM MORROW & CO INC (91%); PEARSON PLC (81%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEWS CORP (NWS); HEARST CORP (X.HRS); AVON BOOKS; WILLIAM MORROW & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BOOKS AND MAGAZINES PUBLISHING (94%); PAPERBACK PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); RANKINGS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOKSTORES (89%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (78%); MERGERS (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (73%); RETAILERS (71%); 

PERSON: RUPERT MURDOCH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



370 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Compaq Projects a Loss And Plans a Reorganization
In its first comment on its prospects since dismissing its chief executive two months ago, Compaq Computer said that it would lose as much as $237 million in the second quarter and announced a sweeping reorganization, which will include thousands of layoffs, meant to save $2 billion a year. 
 Compaq has been losing money and market share in the face of Dell Computer's more efficient and flexible method of selling directly to customers, and Compaq plans to increase its direct sales to consumers. Page C2.

Stock and Bond Prices Rally
Stock and bond prices moved higher as investors and traders grew increasingly confident that the Federal Reserve will not embark on a series of interest rate increases. The Nasdaq composite index rose 26.32 points, or 1.05 percent, to 2,544.15, and the Dow Jones industrial average was up 56.68 points, to 10,841.63. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 9.49 points, to 1,339.90. The yield on the 30-year Treasury fell below 6 percent, finishing at 5.96 percent. C6.
 
Confirmation Seen for Summers
Virtually all the members of the Senate Finance Committee said they expected Lawrence H. Summers, whom President Clinton nominated last month to succeed Robert E. Rubin, to easily win approval as the 71st Treasury Secretary. C4.
 
Frontier Backs Global Crossing Deal
Frontier said that its board had discussed and took no action regarding a $13 billion unsolicited offer made by Qwest Communications International, reaffirming its commitment to a merger deal already agreed to with Global Crossing. C4.
 
Gillette Expects Weak Quarter
After the market closed, Gillette said that its second-quarter results would be weaker than expected because of disappointing sales of its Braun, stationery and toiletries products and a slow recovery in overseas markets. In after-hours trading, its shares fell 6 percent. C16.
 
Lucent Said to Seek Nexabit
Lucent Technologies, continuing its push into the market for Internet equipment, is near a deal to acquire Nexabit Networks, executives close to the talks said. The two companies declined to comment. C5.
 
Fidelity Gives Look at Finances
Fidelity Investments sold $1 billion in long-term debt after strong demand from institutions, which for the first time got a detailed look at the fund company's finances. Documents suggested its total market value would top $30 billion if it were publicly traded. The bond sale has prompted speculation that Fidelity wants to assess its potential value if its chairman, Edward C. Johnson 3d, ever wants to take the company public or sell a piece. A public offering could make it easier for Mr. Johnson's daughter Abigail to take control of the company. C17.
 
Ford Narrows Productivity Gap
The big difference in labor productivity between American and Japanese auto makers in the 1980's, then a matter of considerable dismay in the United States, has been sharply reduced by Ford, but General Motors and DaimlerChrysler still lag, a study says. C6.
 
Airlines Offer Passengers Reforms
The nation's airlines appeared to slow the momentum in Congress for "passengers rights" laws by announcing modest reforms. A32.
 
Microsoft Changes Ad Agencies
Microsoft abruptly ended its five-year relationship with Wieden & Kennedy in Portland, Ore., shifting its corporate brand account, with billings estimated at $100 million, to McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C5.
 
Kellogg to Make Cuts in Hometown
Kellogg, seeking to break out of a prolonged slump, said that it might close a portion of a plant in its hometown of Battle Creek, Mich., and dismiss as many as 700 of the 1,100 workers there. C18.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,841.63 up 56.68
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.96% down 0.10
The Dollar -- 119.25 yen down 1.18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (82%); ALU (NYSE) (82%); ALU (BIT) (82%); CTL (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (82%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (54%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (52%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (82%); CENTURYLINK INC (54%); FMR CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); STATIONERY PRODUCT MFG (86%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (86%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); MERGERS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); APPROVALS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



371 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Kellogg to Scale Back Hometown Operations

BYLINE: By DANA CANEDY

 BODY:
The Kellogg Company, seeking to break out of a prolonged slump, said yesterday that it might close part of a plant in its hometown of Battle Creek, Mich., and dismiss as many as 700 of the 1,100 workers there.
The cuts could come by the first quarter of next year and would produce savings of $35 million to $45 million a year, according to the company, which makes Frosted Flakes and Rice Krispies. Analysts said the company would probably cut most of the 700 positions. 
 The proposed cuts, the analysts said, are a signal from Carlos M. Gutierrez, who became Kellogg's president and chief executive in April, that he intends to make the tough decisions necessary to awaken the sleeping giant of a company.
"The fact that they would actually close capacity in their hometown, which is pretty small, is a statement that Mr. Gutierrez really means business and is really going to cut costs to be a low-cost provider in the cereal business," said William Leach, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Inc.
The planned cuts would include hourly and salaried workers. The company said it would meet with union representatives before making a final decision.
"An integral part of our strategy is continuing to reduce costs and improve efficiency to enable greater reinvestment for profitable growth," Mr. Gutierrez said. "Streamlining our operations and avoiding future costs would help keep our North American cereal business cost-competitive going into the 21st century."
Kellogg has struggled to expand its business after watching sales tumble and profits shrink as consumers have switched to cheaper cereal brands and more convenient breakfast foods. Largely for those reasons, Kellogg's profits have dropped in each of the last four quarters, including a 15 percent decline over the last three months.
Analysts said, however, that it would take more than cutting costs to reinvigorate the company.
"Ultimately you can't cut your way to growth," said Andrew Lazar, an analyst with Lehman Brothers. "Cutting costs must be combined with innovative new product launches and high-quality marketing spending to try and get the consumer to eat more product."

 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: K (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (98%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (98%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (98%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (K) KELLOGG CO (98%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: KELLOGG CO (K)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD AND COOKING; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (63%); 

PERSON: CARLOS GUTIERREZ (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



372 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Narrowed in April, U.S. Says

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17

 BODY:
The nation's trade deficit in goods and services narrowed in April from March's record high as exports rose for the first time in six months.
The deficit totaled $18.939 billion for the month, compared with the record $18.948 billion in March, the Commerce Department said today. The March deficit was revised downward from a previous estimate of $19.7 billion as part of an annual revision of the trade data. 
 The trade deficit with Japan narrowed, but the shortfall with China was the widest since January.
"While it cannot be said that the world markets for U.S. products is booming again, it certainly does look as if the bottom has been reached," said Joel Naroff, a private economist in Philadelphia.
In a recovery from last year's slump, exports of goods and services rose 1.2 percent, to $78.012 billion during April, led by capital goods, consumer goods, industrial hardware and agricultural products.
Imports, benefiting from strong consumer demand, rose 1 percent, to a record $96.952 billion in April, led by higher oil prices and an increased volume of petroleum shipments.

 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); AGRICULTURE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



373 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Speaker Threatens To Block 'Smart Gun' Measure

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 17

 BODY:
Efforts to make New Jersey the first state to require so-called smart-gun technology on handguns sold in the state appeared to stall today, when the Speaker of the General Assembly indicated that he was unlikely to allow a vote on the bill.
For more than a year, gun control advocates have been lobbying lawmakers in New Jersey -- which in 1990 enacted the first assault weapons ban -- to mandate smart guns: weapons equipped with computer chips and other features that make them inoperable by anyone other than the owner. 
 Fierce opposition from sportsmen's organizations and the National Rifle Association blocked the measure until this spring. But after the school shootings in Littleton, Colo., the campaign was re-energized, and a State Senate committee approved a bill last month that would mandate that new guns be "smart" by 2004.
In the Assembly, where Speaker Jack Collins, a Republican, has long contended that it would be irresponsible for government to mandate the use of technology that does not yet exist, it was unclear whether the intense public outcry generated by the Littleton shootings would persuade lawmakers to support the smart-gun bill.
In fact, when Mr. Collins unexpectedly scheduled a news conference for this afternoon and promised to make a major announcement about gun policy, some legislators hoped that it might signal a shift in his position.
Instead, Mr. Collins said that he would propose that a $1 million research grant be awarded to the New Jersey Institute of Technology to develop smart-gun technology.
"In our rush to protect children, we should not mandate unproven technology that may one day cost a police officer his or her life because the new high-tech firearm malfunctioned," Mr. Collins said. "Instead of passing a bill and then keeping our fingers crossed, we are taking a much more proactive approach."
Mr. Collins said he would also push for a bill that would set aside money to pay for trigger locks for existing handguns.
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, who has also voiced concerns that personalized handgun technology is not yet ready, has also advocated mandatory trigger locks.
The statements by Mr. Collins, who described himself as "pro-gun" during a recent newspaper interview, appeared to doom any chance that smart-gun legislation might be voted on before the summer break.
Bryan Miller, executive director of Ceasefire New Jersey, a gun control organization, acknowledged that Mr. Collins's words were far from a ringing endorsement of the smart-gun bill.
"If the Speaker's intention is to basically throw out a red herring and attract attention to this bill instead of the childproof handgun bill," Mr. Miller said, "then we'd be concerned, because he's thwarting the will of the people."
Democrats applauded Mr. Collins's support for the research, but maintained that there was no reason to delay passing the bill. Assemblywoman Loretta Weinberg, a Democrat from Bergen County who sponsored the Assembly's smart-gun bill, said she hoped that Mr. Collins wanted a legitimate study and "not a political stall."
The Senate minority leader, Richard J. Codey, said that smart-gun technology prototypes already exist, and that his bill, which is awaiting a vote by the full Senate, would allow gun manufacturers five years to put the mechanisms into mass production.
"The technology already exists," Mr. Codey said. "Gun makers need the economic incentive of a state law to prod them into applying the existing technology to their products." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); COLORADO, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL; LAW AND LEGISLATION FIREARMS (92%); GUN CONTROL (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (73%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (73%); CHILDREN (69%); APPROVALS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); INTERVIEWS (64%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; COLLINS, JACK (SPEAKER) JACK COLLINS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



374 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 32; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Gore Returns to the Scene of a Flop

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

 BODY:
Al Gore returned to New York as an official candidate for President yesterday, hoping to reverse the fortunes of his last such outing, in 1988, when the state's primary drove him from the race and frayed his relations with his own party.
Mr. Gore spent that New York race in the shadow of Mayor Edward I. Koch, his exuberant booster. The Vice President's campaign organization hopes that if he ends up this time in the shadow of Hillary Rodham Clinton and her likely run for the Senate, it will work to his advantage. 
 "I look forward to the Republicans' beating up on her," Tony Coelho, Mr. Gore's campaign manager, told reporters. "I know she won't be happy to hear me say that, but they will beat up on her so much so that you're going to have a lot of women in New York and a lot of women all over the country who are going to deeply resent what they say and how they say it. And as a result of that, we are going to benefit as a party, and Al and Tipper Gore will benefit because of what the Republicans try to do to Hillary."
Mr. Coelho said Mrs. Clinton "can stand on her own and she can be tough and she will be very effective."
"But," he said, "I encourage the Republicans to take her on."
Mr. Gore was not eager yesterday to discuss the assessment of some political analysts that a candidacy by the First Lady would compete with the Gore campaign for cash in a state that customarily bankrolls Democratic Presidential candidates.
"I've already addressed that issue," he told reporters on a flight to New York from New Hampshire. Of Mrs. Clinton's candidacy, he said, "I'm all for it," and added, without elaborating, that he thought it would help him because it would "generate enthusiasm."
Back in 1988, as a Senator from Tennessee, Mr. Gore demonstrated little appeal outside the South. In a bruising New York primary, he alienated Jews and blacks alike and won only 10 percent of the vote, trailing both Michael S. Dukakis, the eventual nominee, and the Rev. Jesse Jackson.
Mr. Gore, whose expected take from two fund-raisers at the Pierre Hotel last night was $900,000, appears better situated this time around to capture New York's delegates.
Norman Adler, a Democratic consultant, said that the Vice President had already lined up endorsements from most of the state's leading Democrats and that barring some unforeseen circumstance, those officials would activate their machines for him.
But Lee Miringhoff, director of the Marist Institute for Public Opinion, said that while his most recent poll, in March, showed Mr. Gore leading his sole rival for the nomination, former Senator Bill Bradley, by 47 percent to 30 percent in New York, there appeared to be room for growth by the underdog. "I assume, given that Bradley is doing better nationally than he was at that point, that New York is now within striking distance for Bradley," Mr. Miringhoff said.
The latest polls from Quinnipiac College show that New York voters view Mr. Gore and Mr. Bradley -- who is from neighboring New Jersey and, perhaps more important, was a star player for the champion New York Knicks -- with equal favor: 43 percent have a favorable opinion of both. But where 24 percent view Mr. Gore unfavorably, only percent 6 view Mr. Bradley unfavorably, although 40 percent say they do not know Mr. Bradley, while only 9 percent do not know Mr. Gore.
"It's a state Bradley will focus on," Mr. Miringhoff said of New York, "because it's a good state for him, potentially."
Mr. Miringhoff also said that it was unclear at this point what effect Mrs. Clinton's likely entry into the Senate race would have on Mr. Gore but that so far it had completely overshadowed the Presidential race among New Yorkers. "Right now," he said, "Gore is not punching through. The fact that these other questions are out there -- if Hillary is running and can't campaign for him, it's sinking Gore's chances -- shows he's not holding down a lot of real estate. He's not defining himself."
Mr. Gore mentioned none of this yesterday, of course, as he held a rally under gray skies on Wall Street, where hundreds of people jammed into the intersection at Nassau Street in front of Federal Hall.
He repeated the official announcement of his candidacy that he made in Tennessee on Wednesday, highlighting his moral authority, his proposals to make preschool available to everyone and his promise to help parents save for college tuition. He also claimed, as he has for months, a special knowledge that he says will enable him to continue the economic expansion of the last eight years. "I know what works," he said.
Since he was on Wall Street, he also gave a nod -- twice -- to the role of Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, former co-chairman of Goldman, Sachs & Company, in building the economic prosperity. And earlier in the day, he promised to keep Internet commerce free of international taxes. In just four years, more than $1.4 trillion has been spent on goods through cyberspace. "I want to keep the Internet a duty-free, global free-trading zone," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore and his wife, Tipper, visited the Wall Street area yesterday for an outdoor rally at Federal Hall, where Mr. Gore echoed the themes of his official campaign announcement the day before. (James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); FUNDRAISING (71%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); GORE, TIPPER AL GORE (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



375 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE PRESIDENTS;
Clinton Sees No Quick Effect Of Indictment on Milosevic

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: COLOGNE, Germany, June 17

 BODY:
Still trying to sort out the untidy aftermath of the Kosovo war, President Clinton suggested today that the indictment of Slobodan Milosevic by the war crimes tribunal would serve to isolate Serbia on the international stage but would not immediately affect Mr. Milosevic's personal position in Belgrade.
As forensic experts prepared to enter Kosovo to examine mass grave sites that could yield evidence for the war crimes tribunal in The Hague, Mr. Clinton urged patience on what the outcome of Mr. Milosevic's indictment would be. 
 "I do not believe that the NATO allies can invade Belgrade to try to deliver the indictment," Mr. Clinton said at a news conference with the French President, Jacques Chirac. "That does not mean that this is not an important thing, or that there won't someday be a trial." Sometimes, he added, "these things take a good while to bear fruit."
In Paris, Mr. Clinton held talks with Mr. Chirac and the French Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin, on the future of Kosovo and the Balkans. He strolled in the Tuileries gardens, spent half an hour shopping on Rue St.-Louis en l'Ile, and then flew to Cologne, Germany, for a three-day meeting of the seven leading industrial countries and Russia.
On Sunday, Mr. Clinton is scheduled to meet the Russian President, Boris N. Yeltsin. At the top of that agenda will be the Russian military role in Kosovo, which Administration officials said they hoped would be settled by then at talks between American and Russian military officials in Helsinki, Finland.
How to deal with the reconstruction of the Balkan region but at the same time not reward Mr. Milosevic has become one of the trickier problems that the allied leaders are beginning to confront. Mr. Chirac and Mr. Clinton said today that they favored relief aid to Serbia, on the ground that the Serbs had suffered.
Mr. Chirac expressed the justification for the ban on economic assistance to Serbia most strongly: "There can be no economic development aid to a regime which is not democratic and whose present leader, furthermore, has been indicted with crimes against humanity by the international war crimes court."
How long Mr. Milosevic will retain his grip on power and how vulnerable he is now that his troops are withdrawing from Kosovo are being assessed by Balkan specialists in the Clinton Administration as well as in Western Europe.
The question of his survival in power is important because economic experts assert that to try to revive southeastern Europe without including Serbia is a tough proposition. "It is difficult to conceive of the reconstruction of the Balkans without the participation of Serbia, because the land routes go through Serbia," said Vladimir Gligorov, an economist at the Institute for Comparative Economics in Vienna.
For countries like Bulgaria and Macedonia to regain their trade, for instance, bridges through Serbia would have to be repaired, economic experts said. Bulgaria announced today that it had lifted its ban on the export of oil to Serbia.
So far, officials said they believed that Mr. Milosevic would strive to consolidate his power in the police force, his traditional source of strength. It is too early to assess how the Yugoslav Army would react to Mr. Milosevic's decision to order their withdrawal from Kosovo.
But in the short run, they said, Mr. Milosevic will probably prevail. He has already sent signals that he will organize parliamentary elections before the end of the summer. By calling quick elections, Mr. Milosevic is apparently planning to take advantage of the disarray among the democratic opposition forces.
Mr. Milosevic will also try to create an atmosphere of normalcy by lifting the state of war that he imposed at the start of the air strikes.
The call this week by the leaders of the Serbian Orthodox Church for Mr. Milosevic's resignation was important symbolically and represented a dramatic shift in the church's attitude, officials said. But its practical effect on Mr. Milosevic in the short term is hard to predict in a country where the political opposition is barely visible and the church is not the powerful popular force that it is in some other countries.
In the longer run, Western diplomats said their hopes for unseating Mr. Milosevic depend on some influential sector of Yugoslav society's becoming disenchanted enough to put political pressure on a leader who has proved impervious to opposition in the past.
Mr. Milosevic's closest cronies, Western diplomats said, may find it increasingly difficult to maintain their wealth.
It was some of those businessmen, particularly those close to Mr. Milosevic's wife, Mira Markovic, who appear to have had considerable influence in persuading Mr. Milosevic to agree to the peace settlement, a senior Administration official said.
These cronies are not going to be much better off now, diplomats said. About 300 Serbian officials and businessmen, all close associates of Mr. Milosevic, are unable to get visas to European Union countries. The ban on visas for those people was put in place last year as part sanctions to punish the Milosevic Government.
"The economic pressure will increase, and these people could turn against him," a European Union diplomat said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton and President Jacques Chirac of France walking into Elysee Palace yesterday. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3537 INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS, TRACTORS, TRAILERS & STACKERS (91%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); FRANCE (94%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); NETHERLANDS (88%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (88%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); BULGARIA (79%); FINLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (54%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (88%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (75%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); 

COMPANY: STILL SAS (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); FRANCE; SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); FRANCE (94%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); NETHERLANDS (88%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (88%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); BULGARIA (79%); FINLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (54%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (88%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (75%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE WAR CRIMES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); FORENSICS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ARMED FORCES (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); JACQUES CHIRAC (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



376 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Agency Adopts Treaty on Child Labor

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, June 17

 BODY:
The International Labor Organization today adopted a treaty meant to abolish the worst forms of child labor, one that includes a contested provision allowing people under 18 to serve in the military.
The pact is intended to end the exploitation of millions of children who are involved in pornography, prostitution, slavery, hazardous work and forced recruitment as child soldiers. Drawing attention to the treaty, President Clinton addressed the delegates, the first American President to do so. 
 Adopted unanimously by delegates from the 174 country members of the I.L.O., the convention aims to protect those under 18 but does not provide an across-the-board ban on child labor. The treaty's text does not prohibit people under 18 from voluntarily enlisting in the military, an omission that nongovernmental groups and some governments believe weakens the document. A compromise was adopted after insistence by the United States that there be no bar to such military service.
A number of countries, including the United States, Britain, Germany and the Netherlands, recruit 17-year-olds into their armies. The United States, among others, requires parental consent.
United States officials estimated that the American military services have fewer than 10,000 enlistees per year under 18. Of these, fewer than 100 are involved in combat units, and those are in the Balkan region, officials said.
The compromise treaty language now bars "forced or compulsory recruitment of children for use in armed conflict."
Trade unions, along with a diverse group of countries, including Canada, Norway, Denmark and France, had urged tougher provisions.
"We believe it's not appropriate for people under age 18 to be involved in the military," said Tim Noonan, of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions.
Defending the Clinton Administration's position, the Labor Secretary, Alexis M. Herman, said, "We wanted to make sure the emphasis was on forced, compulsory child labor."
But Martin McPherson, of Amnesty International, disagreed. "In the end, it makes no difference whether the person has gone voluntarily or compulsorily," he said. "Military service is hazardous -- regardless."
Although Mr. Noonan said trade unions wanted a flat ban, the compromise was agreed to because "our primary concern was children in Uganda and Sudan -- the 10- and 12-year-olds with guns."
United States officials said many countries allow 17-year-olds to serve voluntarily. "Our concern is about the use of the younger ones being abducted and coerced by paramilitaries and militias," one official said. Amnesty says there are an estimated 300,000 such child soldiers worldwide. They are among the estimated 250 million children under age 14 who, according to I.L.O. statistics, work in developing countries, mainly in Africa and Asia.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); AFRICA (79%); UGANDA (79%); ASIA (79%); DENMARK (79%); NORWAY (79%); SUDAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%); FRANCE (69%); GERMANY (55%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (54%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (94%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (93%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (94%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (93%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFRICA (79%); UGANDA (79%); ASIA (79%); DENMARK (79%); NORWAY (79%); SUDAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%); FRANCE (69%); GERMANY (55%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (54%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CHILD LABOR; PROSTITUTION; SLAVERY; PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY CHILD LABOR (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD SOLDIERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); OBSCENITY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (64%); 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



377 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Resegregation in the Schools Hurts All Students

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Chester E. Finn Jr., a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute, derides the report by the Harvard Graduate School of Education's Civil Rights Project about the resegregation of our public schools, saying people ought to be more concerned about "whether kids are going to good schools where they are safe and learning to read" (news article, June 13). 
 But clearly there is a connection between schools that are racially and economically isolated and poor student performance.
School desegregation has brought educational opportunity to many poor black children, resulting in documented improvements in their academic performance. In cities like St. Louis, poor black children who voluntarily enroll in suburban public schools go on to college at a far higher rate than their counterparts in city schools. However, as schools resegregate, the gap in performance across racial lines is growing. Desegregation isn't the only way to provide educational opportunities to minority children, but abandoning it is a mistake.
 
WILLIAM L. TAYLOR
Washington, June 14, 1999
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON INSTITUTE (84%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUDSON INSTITUTE (84%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; BLACKS SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (88%); CIVIL RIGHTS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SUBURBS (71%); 

PERSON: TAYLOR, WILLIAM L CHESTER E FINN JR (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



378 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 122 words

HEADLINE: In Oregon, Jobs vs. Trees

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Steven Hayward ("The Scourge of New Jobs," Op-Ed, June 12) says that officials in Portland, Ore., have imposed a "growth impact fee" on the Intel Corporation if the company creates too many new jobs. In fact, it was the Washington County Commissioners and the Hillsboro City Council that passed this agreement. 
 The residents of Portland are deeply concerned about their environment and quality of life. Residents of this area may have the only elected regional government in the United States; its primary purpose is growth management. Mr. Hayward's criticisms of their efforts reflect an outdated belief in unfettered economic development.
 
RICHARD ELLMYER
Portland, Ore., June 12, 1999
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP INTEL CORP (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND (ORE); OREGON; WASHINGTON COUNTY (ORE); UNITED STATES (95%); OREGON, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENVIRONMENT; LAND USE POLICIES; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LIFE STYLES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); COUNTIES (88%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (88%); TRENDS (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CITIES (54%); 

PERSON: ELLMYER, RICHARD STEVEN HAYWARD (83%); OP-ED JUNE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



379 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: In Oregon, Jobs vs. Trees

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Steven Hayward (Op-Ed, June 12) says that the Portland metropolitan area has the "answer" to urban sprawl because the county's recently approved agreement with the Intel Corporation imposes a penalty on the company for excess job growth. But he does not mention that the plan also includes giving Intel a $200 million property tax break. 
 Intel, a California company that was already granted tax breaks to establish plants in suburban Portland's "Silicon Forest," threatened to reduce employment if the county failed to give it additional subsidies. If Portland-area political leaders really wanted to control growth, they would have rejected Intel's demand outright.
 
MICHAEL MUNK
Portland, Ore., June 12, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP INTEL CORP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND (ORE); UNITED STATES (93%); OREGON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; HIRING AND PROMOTION; LABOR; TAX CREDITS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENVIRONMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAND USE POLICIES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITIES (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); TRENDS (87%); APPROVALS (87%); TAX LAW (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: MUNK, MICHAEL STEVEN HAYWARD (57%); OP-ED JUNE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



380 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-22
 
Church and NATO Urge Serbs to Stay in Kosovo
NATO and international agencies were making an effort to reassure the Serbian population in Kosovo. In Pristina, a NATO general and leaders of the Serbian Orthodox Church implored about 2,000 anxious Serbs not to follow the thousands who have fled in long convoys behind withdrawing Yugoslav forces. A1
 
American and Russian negotiators continued talks in Finland on the status of Russian forces in Kosovo. A20 

Kosovo Update A22
 
Advancing Suffrage in Kuwait
The 73-year-old Emir of Kuwait, Sheik Ahmed al-Jaber al-Sabah, has issued an edict giving women the right to vote and seek office. Subject to ratification by Parliament, the edict has left some Kuwaitis jubilant, and others aghast. A1
 
Jews' Arrest Divides Teheran
The arrest of 13 Iranian Jews on charges of spying for the United States and Israel has become a focal point in the struggle between moderates and conservatives. A13
 
Holbrooke Hearings Begin
The Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman, Jesse Helms, said he believed Richard C. Holbrooke, President Clinton's nominee as chief diplomat at the United Nations, had "violated the law several times." Mr. Holbrooke acknowledged that carelessness had led to "misconceptions" about his ethics. A12
 
Korean Missile Test Planned
American intelligence agencies have uncovered evidence that North Korea is preparing to test a ballistic missile this summer. A3
 
 
Ships from North and South Korea circled cautiously in the Yellow Sea, where the two sides recently skirmished. American ships headed to the area in a display of force. A3
 
South African Deputy Named
The new President, Thabo Mbeki, named as his deputy Jacob Zuma, the deputy leader of the African National Congress. The announcement ended speculation that Mangosuthu Buthelezi, the leader of the Zulu nationalist Inkatha Freedom Party, would be chosen. A5
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A24-32
 
House Approves Measure On Sales at Gun Shows
The House approved a measure calling for background checks at gun shows, but it was weaker than a version passed by the Senate. Earlier it passed a juvenile-crime bill and voted to allow the Ten Commandments to be posted in schools. A1
 
Airlines Make Concessions
The airlines announced a series of changes that they hoped would blunt pending legislation on "passenger rights." Some key senators who had been backing new legislation praised the announcement, but other lawmakers said they would continue to press for new laws. A32
 
Mixed News on Infant Mortality
The nation's infant mortality rate has steadily declined over the last decade and the percentage of women who die in childbirth has remained essentially unchanged, 7.7 per 100,000, the Government said. But black women are four times as likely to die as whites. A24
 
Vietnam Crypt to Remain Empty
The Pentagon said no new remains from the Vietnam War would be interred at the Tomb of the Unknowns in Arlington National Cemetery for now, and perhaps forever. Instead, Americans missing in Southeast Asia will be honored by an inscription on an empty crypt. A32
 
What Made Einstein So Smart?
Scientists in Canada, writing in The Lancet, say a key region in Einstein's brain -- an area that processes mathematical thought, three-dimensional visualization, spatial relationships and other mental processes -- was significantly larger than the same area among people with normal intelligence. A1
 
Retreating From the Sea
Workers began moving the 128-year-old Cape Hatteras Lighthouse inland, away from the encroaching Atlantic, which has threatened its foundation. The project will take two months and cost $12 million. A24
 
Texas Executes Canadian
Joseph Stanley Faulder, 61, who was sentenced to death for the murder of a wealthy elderly woman in 1975, was put to death by injection. His case drew protests from Canada. A24
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
New English Test Poses Extra Challenge for Some
Eleventh graders take a rigorous new English Regents exam today that will determine if they will graduate. Advocates for immigrants said the test could be catastrophic for many students who entered schools with limited English and have tried to catch up in bilingual and intensive English classes. The concern is acute in New York City, where at least one in four public school students is foreign-born and as many as half live in homes in which English is not the main language spoken. B1
 
Complaints About Benefits Card
A new system that replaces food stamps with magnetic-stripe benefit cards is riddled with problems, advocates for the poor say, and is proving especially daunting for the elderly, the disabled and people who speak little English. B1
 
Subway Body Identified
The man found dead on Monday morning on a subway train was identified as a 36-year-old Ecuadorean immigrant. B3
 
Squeegee Man Testifies
Antoine Reid, who was shot last year by an off-duty police officer during a dispute over Mr. Reid's effort to wipe the officer's windshield, took the stand at the officer's trial. B3
 
WEEKEND E1-28; E29-42
 
Indian Museum Gets Go-Ahead
The Commission of Fine Arts unanimously gave the Smithsonian Institution final approval to build the National Museum of the American Indian on the last vacant site on the Mall in Washington, just east of the Smithsonian's Hirshhorn Museum. E35
 
OBITUARIES A33
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Dallas Leads N.H.L. Series
The Stars beat the Buffalo Sabres, 2-0, in Game 5 of the Stanley Cup finals, giving Dallas a 3-2 edge in the four-of-seven-game series. D2
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-18
 
Fed Chief Hints at Increase
Alan Greenspan, speaking to a Congressional committee, gave the clearest indication yet that the central bank would raise interest rates by a quarter percentage point later this month, making the case that the Fed sometimes needs to act well before inflation takes hold. C1
 
Stock prices moved higher. C6
 
Warning From Compaq
Compaq Computer said it would lose up to 15 cents a share, or $237 million, in the second quarter, and it announced a sweeping reorganization intended to save $2 billion a year. C2
 
Hearst Sells Publishing Units
The News Corporation said it would expand HarperCollins by buying Avon Books and William Morrow from Hearst in a deal estimated to be worth less than $180 million. C1
 
Insuring Company Loyalty
Arcnet, which designs and builds wireless communications systems, gave BMW's to 28 of its 57 employees, ranking from administrative assistant to architect, under a new policy that every employee on the job at least a year gets a leased BMW, plus fully paid insurance. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A34-35
 
Editorials: A new course on Iraq; hints of a mild Fed action; the Pope goes home; a medal for Rosa Parks.
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E40
 
TV Listings E27
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather A32
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KUWAIT (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN (76%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (74%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (76%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KUWAIT (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN (76%); PACIFIC OCEAN (74%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); APPROVALS (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); WOMEN (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); RELIGION (78%); ETHICS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); ESPIONAGE (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (65%); AIRLINES (64%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (61%); INFANT MORTALITY (60%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); PASSENGER RIGHTS (50%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (71%); BILL CLINTON (55%); JACOB ZUMA (53%); THABO MBEKI (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999



381 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: Russians Land a Big One;
F.A.A. Gives Stamp of Approval to Ilyusian Cargo Plane

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN

DATELINE: LE BOURGET, France, June 17

 BODY:
Displayed proudly above the reception desk of the Ilyushin Aviation Complex office at the Paris Air Show here is a newly minted air-worthiness certificate from the United States Federal Aviation Administration. On June 2, the big, four-engine Russian Ilyushin IL-96T parked nearby became the first wide-body jet, other than ones made by Airbus Industrie and the Boeing Company, to meet F.A.A. safety standards.
It was not easy. 
 While Airbus and Boeing have the certification process for new models down to a science, often breezing through it in a year or less, Ilyushin struggled for five years to get approval. And even though it now has the certificate, making it easier for leasing companies and banks to finance sales of the IL-96T, the success of the cargo plane, or of a sister passenger plane that is in the works, is by no means assured.
Ilyushin, founded in 1933 by Sergei Vladimirovich Ilyushin, who won the Order of Lenin three times for designing some of Russia's most famous military and civilian airplanes, has built only one IL-96T so far. The company, which was partly privatized in 1994, has orders for 19 more from Aeroflot International Airlines. But it cannot even deliver the first one because an agreement for loan guarantees from the Export-Import Bank in Washington that would help pay for the planes has lapsed.
But the Ilyushin team, in the best Russian tradition, knows how to live with adversity. "We have overcome so much," Vladimir A. Belyakov, the company's deputy marketing director, said, ticking off the collapse of the Soviet Union, the introduction of a market-based economy that eliminated decades of fat government subsidies, and last summer's financial debacle. "And we continue."
The IL-96T was the inspiration of the late industrialist Armand Hammer, who in 1989 suggested combining the best of the Soviet and American aerospace industries. He convinced wealthy friends, including the publisher Robert Maxwell and the real estate executive Paul Reichmann, to invest in the project.
But after Dr. Hammer and Mr. Maxwell died and Mr. Reichmann's Olympia & York went bankrupt, the deal fell apart. Mr. Belyakov said Ilyushin executives now joked that they should have taken $1 billion from Mr. Reichmann. "What difference would it have made if he were $11 or $12 billion in debt?" he asked.
But the idea of building a Russian-American airplane survived. Eventually Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United Technologies, agreed to supply the engines, while Rockwell-Collins, a unit of Rockwell International, furnished the cockpit instruments and controls. Other American suppliers also signed on. The result was the IL-96T.
It was -- and is -- a bet on the future of the aviation market in Russia, a country that spans 10 time zones and desperately needs more airplanes. Arthur Kelly, the Rockwell-Collins executive who oversaw the company's role in the project, was a believer, making his final presentation to Rockwell-Collins's board of directors in the early 1990's, dressed in the uniform of a Russian Air Force colonel.
"Arthur was passionate about getting Rockwell Collins into international markets," Karen C. Tripp, the company's chief spokeswoman, said. "He would do things like that." Mr. Kelly, who died of cancer in 1996, got the board's approval. So far, Rockwell-Collins has invested $50 million in the airplane and Pratt & Whitney $80 million. Mr. Belyakov estimated that Ilyushin had spent $600 million.
Sergei Ilyushin joined the young Soviet military as an aircraft mechanic in 1919 and began building gliders as a student at Russia's Air Force academy in the 1920's. During World War II, he developed the IL-2 attack airplane to support infantry.
For most of its history, Ilyushin was simply a design center, creating airplanes that were built by factories around the Soviet Union as ordered by the central authorities. The system may not have been efficient but it was certainly productive: More than 36,000 of the single-engine prop attack planes were built, making it a mainstay of the war and the most widely produced model in the world.
During the cold war, the Ilyushin Design Bureau, as it was then called, continued to create bombers and fighters but also branched into civil aviation. Hundreds of Ilyushin airplanes were produced each year and "sold" to Soviet allies in the East bloc and elsewhere -- the allies had little choice but to buy them.
The collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 ended the cozy relations between the state and the aircraft industry. Government orders dried up. Designers like Ilyushin and the factories that produced its planes were told to make it on their own. While some airplanes, like the mighty Antonov, the world's largest cargo airplane, have found niche markets, most Russian airplane makers have fallen on hard times. The Antonov, for example, moved the Rockefeller Center's 73-foot Norway spruce Christmas tree to New York from Cleveland last year. And, because it was being leased, it did not need F.A.A. certification.
Liberated East European countries dumped their Russian planes, opting for more modern and cost-efficient Airbus and Boeing jets. Even Aeroflot decided to buy Boeing 737's and leases Airbus A310's and two wide-body Boeing 777's.
The Moscow-based Ilyushin teamed up with its factories in Voronezh and Tashkent to form a joint-stock company. (The Tashkent deal was delayed because the Governments of Russia and the former Soviet republic of Uzbekistan first had to work out a two-way agreement.) In addition to the new IL-96, Ilyushin now makes the IL-114, a regional two-engine prop, the four-engine IL-76 cargo jet, and the IL-103, a small, single-engine private plane that in December was actually the first Russian airplane to receive F.A.A. certification.
So far, business has not been good. A decade ago, 60 IL-76's were made each year; last year just 15 were produced. And while China bought three wide-body IL-86 passenger jets and one IL-76 freighter three years ago, most of the new Ilyushins now coming off the assembly line are flown by Russian airlines that lack the money to pay for them.
Mr. Belyakov estimated that around 1,500 Ilyushins, ranging from the four-engine prop IL-18's of the 1950's to the wide-body, 350-passenger IL-86's of the 1970's, remain in service in Russia and places like China, Cuba, India and Vietnam.
The new, Westernized version of the IL-96 is based on the all-Russian IL-96-300, which went into service in 1993. It is currently flown only by Russian airlines and serves as the official plane of President Boris N. Yeltsin. The IL-96M, which is the soon-to-be-introduced passenger version of the new airplane, can carry up to 436 passengers.
The company says the IL-96T, which is the cargo version and the first of the planes to come off the assembly line, can carry as much as 92 tons more than 7,000 miles.
That makes it smaller than the biggest Boeing 747 freighter, which can carry up to 140 tons. But Genrikh V. Novozhilov, Ilyushin's chief airplane designer since 1970, said the IL-96T's 16-foot-wide and nine-and-a-half-foot-high side cargo door, which is bigger than any competitor's, gave it a competitive edge. And at an asking price of $75 million, the plane is less than half the list price of a new 747, even though it has the latest high-tech American cockpit instruments and fuel-efficient American engines. Thus, its backers contend, the IL-96T could find a ready market, even a huge one, from cash-short customers that need cheap hauling capacity.
That may be one reason why Boeing unsuccessfully lobbied the Clinton Administration in 1995 not to let the Export-Import Bank guarantee a $1 billion loan to pay for 85 percent of the Western content of the first 20 planes. Boeing said that it did not mind competing with Ilyushin but not when Russian Government subsidies enabled it to sell its planes at below market prices.
"It's not a bad airplane," said Edwin Laird, the publisher of Cargo Facts, a monthly magazine that focuses on freight airplanes, as he watched the IL-96T lumber along the runway into take-off position for its demonstration flight here. But that is a just a small part of the equation, he explained.
"The airlines are not worried about the engines or the avionics, which are all made in America," he said. "They are worried about everything else. What do you do if it breaks down? Do you go out in the back yard and make a part?" He said he doubted there would be much of a market for the plane outside Russia until it had proved itself.
Mr. Belyakov said Ilyushin was prepared to offer airlines a global support network with the help of Pratt & Whitney and others. The real problem, he said, is that Ilyushin lacks the money to help customers finance the purchase of its planes.
The F.A.A. certification will help with that. Uncertified planes like the IL-96-300 are allowed to fly back and forth between the United States and Russia but it is very difficult to sell airplanes in third countries without a stamp of approval from American or European safety authorities. Few banks and other financial institutions will lend money to finance the sale of an uncertified airplane.
Mr. Belyakov said that Ilyushin was now looking for alternative ways to finance the Aeroflot sale to make up for the absence of the Export-Import Bank loan guarantees. Ilyushin's plan is to deliver the planes to the Russian airline as soon as it can, so it can show the world how well the IL-96 can perform in commercial service. But Ilyushin executives were busy entertaining prospective customers at the air show here and were said to have some interest from airlines in Europe and Asia.
"There is a lot of opportunity for it in the C.I.S.," said Louis Chenevert, the president of Pratt & Whitney, referring to the Commonwealth of Independent States, the successor to the Soviet Union. "But as the airplane builds credibility for itself, it will gain customers all over the world. The airplane will do well over the next couple of years."
Not that Airbus and Boeing should really lose any sleep. Together, they will deliver more than 900 new airplanes this year, while Ilyushin will be lucky to deliver one of its IL-96's.
"The F.A.A. certification will ease access to international capital for us and for our customers," Mr. Belyakov said. "We are rising to the same level of competitiveness with the Western-made aircraft."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Russian-made IL-96T cargo plane sat on the tarmac at the Paris Air Show earlier this week. (Associated Press)
 
Chart: "A New Bird in the Sky"
The Russian Ilyushin 96T cargo plane was recently deemed safe by the F.A.A., and a passenger version is planned. Here are a few commercial jets of roughly comparable size.
 
Ilyushin 96T/M
 
PASSENGER CAPACITY: 300 to 436
LIST PRICE IN MILLIONS: $75
TOTAL ORDERS ANNOUNCED*: None
 
Boeing 777 group
 
PASSENGER CAPACITY: 305 to 320
LIST PRICE IN MILLIONS: 137 to 185
TOTAL ORDERS ANNOUNCED*: 427
 
Airbus A330/340 group
 
PASSENGER CAPACITY: 253 to 485
LIST PRICE IN MILLIONS: 116 to 167
TOTAL ORDERS ANNOUNCED*: 485
 
Boeing MD-11
 
PASSENGER CAPACITY: 181 to 285
LIST PRICE IN MILLIONS: 132 to 162
TOTAL ORDERS ANNOUNCED*: 200
 
*Since introduction
 
(Sources: The companies)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); UTX (NYSE) (64%); AFLT (RTS) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); FRANCE (88%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); AIRBUS SAS (84%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (64%); AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (58%); PRATT & WHITNEY (51%); US FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (84%); US FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (84%); US FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); FRANCE (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); AIRCRAFT INSTRUMENTS MFG (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); FLIGHT CONTROL & INSTRUMENTATION (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (76%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); AVIONICS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); LEASING INDUSTRY (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (69%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: SERGEI VLADIMIROVICH ILYUSHIN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1999



382 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 2007 words

HEADLINE: New Lenders With Huge Fees Thrive on Workers With Debts

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN

DATELINE: KOKOMO, Ind., June 16

 BODY:
A year and a half ago, Doris Rude, a taxi driver who is partly disabled by a herniated disc, was living at the edge of her income of $300 a week and had just $5 in the bank. Then she received a $1,900 hospital bill. With poor credit and no money, she turned in desperation to a new, fast-growing American institution: The payday loan company.
For a fee of $30, the company agreed to advance her a two-week loan of $100. To obtain the loan, she wrote the company a check for $130 that the lender agreed to hold until her next payday. With the $30 fee, the lender was charging her an annual interest rate that consumer advocates say is 780 percent. 
 But two weeks later, with no change in her living expenses, her check was sure to bounce. So the lender let Ms. Rude renew the loan for another two weeks, for another $30 fee. Soon she was bounding from one payday lender to another, six in all, borrowing from the next to pay the accumulating fees of the others.
Ms. Rude had fallen into a trap that regulators worry is an increasingly common one, not just for lower-paid workers like Ms. Rude but for higher-salaried ones as well.
Payday lending companies are sprouting up all over the country, having increased to nearly 8,000 today from 300 seven years ago. Although this is most prosperous peacetime decade of the century, many workers have become trapped by debts run up in free spending or have been driven deeper into debt by misfortune. But these workers have the two basic things needed to obtain a payday loan: paychecks and checking accounts.
Although plentiful in big cities like New York and Los Angeles, the payday lenders have become most visible in places like Kokomo; Springfield, Ohio, and Cleveland, Tenn. Ten have opened in Kokomo, a city of 45,000 people.
Bearing names like Check Into Cash, Check 'n Go and Fast Cash, payday lenders grant loans to workers against their next paychecks. In return, the companies charge a "fee," typically $15 to $35. At annual rates, the fees normally exceed 300 percent and 400 percent and in some cases they reach four digits.
At least a dozen national chains have sprung up. The biggest, Ace Cash Express in Irving, Tex., has around 900 stores and revenue last year -- what it collected in loan fees -- of $100 million, twice that of 1996. Check Into Cash, in Cleveland, Tenn., reported that its revenue had jumped to $21 million in the first six months of 1998 from $10 million three years ago and $1 million five years ago.
In much of the country, these companies escape the routine scrutiny and regulation faced by banks, finance companies and pawn shops, because in some states they are too new to have stirred much controversy and in others they have used political clout to stave off legislation.
As of late last year, the Consumer Federation of America reported that 19 states, including all of those in New England, as well as Pennsylvania, Texas and Virginia, prohibited payday lending, most by limiting annual, small-loan interest to less than 40 percent. But the federation said the 31 other states, including New York and New Jersey, condoned it by law or by the absence of law.
A spokesman for the New York State Banking Department, Rick Hansen, disputed this assertion, saying the state's usury law forbids charging more than 25 percent annual interest on any loan.
The payday lenders say they are providing a vital service. As commercial banks have shunned the poorest borrowers, in part by raising the minimum amounts they will lend, people who need small sums to get over a hump, like paying for a medical prescription or buying tires for a car, have few choices. These include people who are unable to get credit cards or who have charged or exceeded their cards' credit limits.
Industry leaders say comparing payday lenders' fees with annual interest rates is unfair because most of the loans are paid off within a month.
Consumer advocates consider the interest rates exorbitant.
"I know of loan sharks in New York who wouldn't charge this kind of interest," said Gary L. Calhoun, a lawyer here who provides legal services for members of the United Automobile Workers.
State Representative Richard W. Bodiker of Indiana, a Democrat whose bill this year to regulate the lenders fell to intense industry lobbying, calls the fees "in excess of what usury laws consider loan-sharking."
Robert C. Rochford, deputy counsel of the National Check Cashers Association, an industry trade group, called such accusations spurious.
"Loan-sharking involves coercive tactics to collect the debt," Mr. Rochford said. "No major direct deposit provider has been convicted of that."
One reason for the lenders' growth is people's comfort with debt. The nation's savings rate, the percentage of people's disposable income that is saved, dropped to 0.5 percent last year and to nothing at all by earlier this year from 6 percent a decade ago. Rather than save, people are spending more than ever and borrowing more than ever.
"We know there's a pretty sizable group of folks whose credit cards are maxed out," said Mark B. Tarpey, a supervisor in the consumer finance division of the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions.
With payday lenders around, Mr. Tarpey said: "They don't have to tell the boss they need a cash advance. They don't have to give up their TV's and furniture. They don't have to run a credit check."
Another reason is a level of unemployment, 4.2 percent, that economists used to call unattainable. To succeed, payday lenders need customers with bank accounts and regular checks, in particular paychecks, and these days, just about every able-bodied adult receives one.
Under such conditions, said Mr. Rochford, the deputy counsel for the check cashers' association, payday lenders' revenues will grow to $1.44 billion this year from $810 million last year.
Payday lending exists, Mr. Rochford said, "because there's a need for it." A short-term deferred deposit loan, the industry's preferred term, helps a worker through an emergency and is cheaper than bouncing a check. Most banks do not make loans for less than $1,000, he said, and pawning is embarrassing.
Borrowers like a payday loan, Mr. Rochford said, because "it is private," adding: "It is quick. And they do not need a lot of documentation." The fees cover loans that turn sour, he said, and the cost of employees to process loans.
Kokomo, about 50 miles north of Indianapolis, may be a case in point. A steel and asphalt city of immense new Daimler-Chrysler and Delphi-Delco automobile component factories, Kokomo is fertile terrain for payday lending.
Strapped by bad credit and unmanageable or unexpected expenses, people here used to go to pawn shops for loans. But of three pawn shops here two years ago, one has closed, and another, Bob's, passed up renewing its license this month. Now people go to the city's new payday lenders.
Unemployment, which has exceeded 20 percent in Kokomo in recessions, was just 1.4 percent in March, according to the latest survey by the Kelley School of Business at Indiana University. About 20,000 people, roughly 40 percent of the area work force, is employed by automotive companies. They earn $50,000 to $60,000 a year and are the new lenders' biggest customers.
The payday lenders here approve most loans within 10 minutes. "No Credit Check, Instant Approval," Easy Money's flier promises. "The fastest way to payday," read the banners on the walls of Check 'n Go.
For this service, some states specify a maximum fee of $15 on a one- or two-week loan of $100 or $200. In Indiana the limit is $33. At $33, the annual rate on a two-week $100 loan is 858 percent.
And as borrowers amass loans, taking new ones to pay the fees on the others, the fastest way to payday becomes a fast way, too, to garnished wages and bankruptcy.
Kathy Jo King, 41, earns almost $60,000 a year as an assembly-line worker at the Daimler-Chrysler transmission plant. But she has no savings, in part because she is paying creditors $113 a week to work her way out of a bankruptcy that followed a serious automobile accident that left her husband partly disabled and both with high medical bills.
Then early last year, Ms. King and her husband and their boys, 18 and 11, had to move, incurring $1,500 in unexpected expenses.
"I've got kids to feed," she said. "I had to go do something." With her credit in ruins, she could not go to a bank for a loan, so she went to payday lenders.
"We did several payday loans all at once," Ms. King said. "They make you feel real at ease about it." She started paying off the loans bit by bit but became saddled with $200 in fees alone every two weeks and could not keep up.
So one lender tried to redeem her last $330 check covering a loan of $300 and a fee of $30. She did not have money in the bank to cover the check and it bounced. The bank and the lender then charged her $80 in fees for a bad check.
Next, the lender sued, and Ms. King lost. The court awarded the lender triple damages -- $990, or three times the amount of the check, plus $150 in lawyer fees and $60 for court costs. With the $80 for bouncing the check, Ms. King owes $1,280 on her original loan of $330.
Currently, about 100 payday lender suits against borrowers are on file in the Howard County Superior Court in Kokomo. Lenders here also send out letters threatening customers with imprisonment for bouncing a loan check, although none is known to have tested the state penal code provision that they invoke in making the threat. Some lenders start taking legal action within a month to obtain unpaid loans; others try to work with customers to avoid a lawsuit.
To tap into this market, Carol Brenner, 36, opened Quick Cash here in September. Ms. Brenner now has 350 clients and charges less than most lenders: $20 for a two-week $100 loan, for an annual percentage rate of 521 percent, and $30 for $200, or 391 percent.
Unlike some lenders, Ms. Brenner lets her clients pay off portions of their loans as they extend them and in that way work them down. And to avert probable trips to small-claims court, she says she will not lend to people who already have more than two loans from other payday lenders.
The biggest borrowers, many lenders say, are not Kokomo's low-wage service workers, but auto industry employees who earn more than $20 an hour.
"Most of my customers are from Chrysler and Delco," said Marc Sutherland, manager of the Kokomo office of Nationwide Budget Finance.
Shari Harris, 39, who earns around $25,000 a year as an information security analyst, was managing money well enough until the father of her two children, 10 and 4, stopped paying $1,200 a month in child support.
"And then," Ms. Harris said, "I learned about the payday loan places."
She qualified immediately for a two-week $150 loan at Check Into Cash, handing it a check for $183 to include the $33 fee. "I started maneuvering my way around until I was with seven of them," she said.
In six months, she owed $1,900 and was paying fees at a rate of $6,006 a year. "That's the sickness of it," Ms. Harris said. "I was in the hole worse than when I started. I had to figure a way to get out of it."
So she asked her employer to stop paying her wages into her checking account, emptying it, and putting her checks into a savings account. She stopped paying the biweekly fees to extend the loans, so the lenders tried to redeem her checks. "I let them all bounce," she said.
She took a second job, working in a department store, and turned to the Consumer Credit Counseling Service, which worked out a plan under which she is paying $440 a month to work down the loans.
Jean Ann Fox, director of consumer protection at the Consumer Federation of America and a prominent critic of payday lending, said, "There's nothing wrong with small loans at reasonable interest rates, reasonable terms and reasonable collection practices.
"But these practices are designed to keep you in perpetual debt."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Payday lending companies are opening up all over the country. (Mary Ann Carter for The New York Times)(pg. A1); To obtain a payday loan, a borrower writes a check for the loan plus the fee, and the check is held until the borrower's next payday. A product of the nation's most prosperous peacetime decade in this century, payday lending businesses are sprouting up across the country, with 8,000 today against 300 seven years ago. This one is in Kokomo, Ind. (Mary Ann Carter for The New York Times)(pg. A28)
 
Chart: "WHAT IT COSTS: An Expensive $100"
A payday loan is a short-term cash advance, for a fee, to be paid off with a check that will be cashed on the borrower's next payday. But with fees like $30 for a two-week loan of $100, they are far more expensive than even credit cards:
 
PAYDAY LOAN: $60 A MONTH
A $30 fee for a two-week $100 loan, renewed for two more weeks.
 
$100 CASH LOAN: $60
$100 CASH ADVANCE: $5
 
CREDIT CARD: ABOUT $5 A MONTH
A card available to people with poor credit might have a 3 percent fee for a cash advance, plus an annual interest rate of 19.8 percent, or about $2 a month on $100.
 
(The New York Times)(pg. A28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ACE CASH EXPRESS INC (51%); NEW YORK STATE BANKING DEPARTMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE BANKING DEPARTMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHECK CASHING SERVICES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

PERSON: DORIS RUDE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1999



383 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 2; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: THINK TANK;
Steal This Book: What the Bible and the Beats Have in Common

BYLINE: By Joyce Jensen 

 BODY:
"If I were asked what book is better than a cheap book, I should answer that there is one book better than a cheap book, and that is a book honestly come by." James Russell Lowell, poet and the first editor of The Atlantic Monthly, testifying before the United States Senate Committee on Patents on Jan. 29, 1886.
 Unfortunately for many bookstore owners, that is not a sentiment shared by everyone who visits their stores.
The preferences of the book-buying public are recorded on best-seller lists, but what about those of the book-stealing public? Bookstore owners and managers were asked about book thieves' tastes in an extremely unscientific survey. 
 Many of the store owners were reluctant even to acknowledge theft. (Superchains like Barnes & Noble and Borders declined to make any comment at all.) But shops that did respond indicated that their thieves had remarkably similar preferences. On both East Coast and West, the Beat poets Jack Kerouac, Charles Bukowski, Allen Ginsberg and William Burroughs kept popping up as favorites among shoplifters. (In Britain, The Economist surveyed booksellers on thievery and found that the Beat poet Jack Kerouac was No. 1 choice.) Right behind the Beats comes the Bible.
At Ventura Bookstore in Ventura, Calif., Kerouac's "On the Road" and Ginsberg's "Howl!" are at the top of the most-wanted lists as well as that old favorite, Abbie Hoffman's "Steal This Book," said Ed Elrod, the owner. Tarot cards and how-to books, particularly sex manuals, are also popular. Even Bibles get taken, probably for use in marriage ceremonies, Mr. Elrod said.
Richard Berman, manager of the historic City Lights bookstore in North Beach in San Francisco, said that Kerouac, Burroughs and Ginsberg were the most popular writers to be stolen. A younger generation of thieves apparently is interested in Douglas Coupland's Generation X books as well.
Linda Millemann, a general manager of the Tattered Cover in Denver, one of the largest stores in the country at 40,000 square feet, said the Beat poets ranked high in the stolen category, along with textbooks and art and photography books, which they can sell to others.
Kerouac is also a favorite at Shakespeare and Company's stores on the Upper East Side and in lower Broadway in Manhattan. Linda Marotta, senior buyer at the downtown store, says that Burroughs and Bukowski are also popular steals. Nick Marino, general manager of the uptown store, said that Dover Classics books, which sell for $1 or $2, are also popular. He says that art and travel books that can be sold on the street are stolen by professionals.
At Powell's Book Store, in Portland, Ore., one of the largest chain stores, the general manager, Miriam Sontz, said that people who take books fall into two categories: those who steal on impulse and those who take books to sell for money. She said that people take books they would be ashamed to buy: books on cocaine cultivation, sex dysfunction or "racy" books for teen-agers. Bibles are also a favorite, she added, saying she does not know why.
Karen Watkins, vice president and general manager of Vroman's Bookstore, which has been in Pasadena, Calif., for 105 years, said that drug dealers and the homeless steal salable books. She said she believed that those thieves are given lists by used-book stores specifying which titles are in demand. Art books, first editions and hardcover mysteries are hard to keep on the shelves, she added.
The Strand Book Store in Manhattan seems to attract a more intellectual crowd. Although electronic detectors installed five years ago significantly cut down on theft, the owner, Fred Bass, said that before the heightened security, Greek and Latin classics, books on higher mathemathics, philosophy and Judaica as well as other scholarly and religious books were targets. These days, he said, art books are taken by professional thieves.
At Green Apple Books and Music in San Francisco, the general manager, Pete Mulvihill, reports that current favorites for shoplifters included Bibles and books on philosophy.
Across the bay, in Berkeley, Patrick Marks, buyer for Cody's Books, said that works by Toni Morrison and Bukowski were stolen before its security system was updated. The more persistent thieves are interested in monster books, language audio tapes, tarot cards and coins that come in game books, he said.
In Tuscaloosa, Ala., the Book Cellar's manager, Edna Thomas, said that stealing was not a major problem, although occasionally rock-and-roll and computer-game magazines were taken.
Not surprisingly, theft does not seem to be much of a problem in affluent Martha's Vineyard. Dana Anderson, an owner of Bickerton & Ripley in Edgartown, Mass., said that books on summer reading lists were stolen occasionally as were small gift books, but that nothing major had been shoplifted. Alex Comfort's "Joy of Sex" used to be a favorite of thieves, she said, so the store stopped stocking it.
In Wareham, Mass., on the road to Cape Cod, Steve Bunshaft, owner of Ken-Mark Books, said there was no problem whatsoever with stealing. His real worry? Competition from large chain bookstores in four nearby malls.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The books of choice for shoplifters include the Bible as well as works by poets like William Burroughs, Jack Kerouac and Allen Ginsberg. (Tony Cenicola for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BKS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (91%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (91%); SHAKESPEARE & CO (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIBLE; BOOK TRADE; SHOPLIFTING BOOKSTORES (92%); WRITERS (90%); SHOPLIFTING (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); POETRY (89%); RANKINGS (88%); LITERATURE (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); RETAILERS (76%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CITY LIFE (63%); GENERATION X (62%); PHOTOGRAPHY (60%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BURROUGHS, WILLIAM S (1914-97); KEROUAC, JACK (1922-69); JENSEN, JOYCE WILLIAM S BURROUGHS (69%); ALLEN GINSBERG (69%); ABBOTT 'ABBIE' HOFFMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1999



384 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Lawrence Stone, 79, Historian Of the Changing Social Order

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN 

 BODY:
Lawrence Stone, a social historian whose broad view of the past helped transform historical studies, died on Wednesday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 79.
The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Jeanne.
Professor Stone, who taught at Princeton University for 27 years, wrote on a wide range of topics, including the social and economic position of the English aristocracy, the nature of the English Revolution of 1640-1660, the history of education, medieval sculpture, and family life, including marital relations and the rise of divorce over the last five centuries. 
 Throughout his work he examined profound changes in the social order over a long time span, in contrast to a more conventional approach restricted to the activities of the political elite. As such, his work on England converged with a similar postwar intellectual approach in France associated with Marc Bloch and Lucien Febvre. It applies social science techniques to history, using the tools of demography, economics, political science and anthropology.
Professor Stone, who often found himself embroiled in polemics and relished that fact, liked to call himself an exponent of prosopography, or group biography. More could be learned, he insisted, from the study of the history of the family, or of the institution of divorce, than from even the most insightful biography of Henry VIII or Anne Boleyn.
"History, as Professor Stone presented it to rapt audiences of students and colleagues, cannot be confined to the tiny elite who dominate events," said the historian Robert Darnton, a Princeton colleague. "It involves entire populations."
Professor Stone was not without critics. In 1985, Norman F. Cantor, a New York University historian, wrote in the neoconservative journal The New Criterion that Marxists, led by Professor Stone, were taking over the teaching of history. That charge, which stemmed from Professor Stone's early association with the English Christian Socialist historian R. H. Tawney, was vehemently denied in letters to the editor by members of the Princeton department of history and by conservative scholars like Gertrude Himmelfarb and Jack Hexter. Professor Stone would only describe the charge as "ridiculous."
Among Professor Stone's scholarly books are "The Crisis of the Aristocracy, 1558-1641" (1965), "The Causes of the English Revolution, 1529-1642" (1972), "The Family, Sex and Marriage in England, 1500-1800" (1977), and "Broken Lives: Marital Separation and Divorce in England, 1660-1857" (1993).
Born in Epsom, Surrey, in England, on Dec. 4, 1919, Lawrence Stone studied at the Charterhouse School, the Sorbonne and Christ Church, Oxford. His university studies were interrupted by war service as a lieutenant in the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve.
He received his B.A. and M.A. degrees from Oxford in 1946 and remained there until 1962, first as a lecturer at University and Corpus Christi colleges and then as a fellow of Wadham College.
After two years at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, he joined the Princeton University faculty in 1963. He served as chairman of the history department from 1967 to 1970 and in 1968 became the founding director of the Davis Center for Historical Studies, which was established to promote innovative methods of historical research. He retired in 1990.
In addition to his wife, Professor Stone is survived by two children, Elizabeth Cecilia Stone Zimansky of Stony Brook, Long Island, and Robert Lawrence Fawtier Stone of Manhattan.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence Stone. (Princeton University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (57%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: ELITE AS (70%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (57%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HISTORY (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); FAMILY (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); BRITISH MONARCHS (76%); SCULPTURE (75%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (75%); POLITICS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); RELIGION (67%); 

PERSON: STONE, LAWRENCE; HONAN, WILLIAM H LAWRENCE STONE (96%); ROBERT CHOATE DARNTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1999



385 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 2017 words

HEADLINE: A Transsexual Economist's 2d Transition;
She Says Gender Determines One's Approach to Her Field

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
Michael Foley, third-generation owner of the Foley Fish Company, as Boston Irish as the Kennedys, and as charming, greeted Deirdre McCloskey with a kiss on the cheek and a gallantry. "You look better than the last time I saw you," he said. And Deirdre melted, hugging him in gratitude and relief.
They had played high school football together, these two six-footers, and had gone on to Harvard, class of '64. They had seen each other at the 25th reunion in 1989. Deirdre -- then Donald, still a man -- took his wife and two children to those festivities. Now, at the 35th, she arrived at the opening reception alone, her blond hair pinned up with a silver clasp, her outfit a black dress, black shawl, silver bracelets and pumps -- and almost immediately ran into her old pal Mike Foley, who put her at ease. 
 "I would prefer that there was a pill I could give to the world, and they would forget I had ever been a man," Ms. McCloskey said later. "But there isn't a pill, and since I want to continue in my profession, I must change people's minds."
Professor McCloskey, who teaches at the University of Iowa and at Erasmus University in Rotterdam, is gradually becoming one of the most famous American transsexuals. That is partly because of her prominence as an economist and historian, but also because of her transition strategy. She has described her experience in many articles and talks, and in September the University of Chicago Press will publish "Crossing: A Memoir," a detailed account of her journey. Her hope is that through openness, frankness and constant repetition of her story, her reincarnation as a woman will be accepted as natural and healthy.
But if Ms. McCloskey has switched sexes successfully, she is still in the early stages of a second significant transition. After years of surgery, self-discipline, a face lift and hormones to alter her appearance, her voice, her mannerisms, her emotions and her sex organs, she is trying, at age 56, to make economists aware of just how much gender affects their thinking. Men dominate the profession, occupying most of the tenured professorships, but Ms. McCloskey argues that women by temperament and cultural conditioning make better economists. They tend to perceive the economy differently from men, she says, and more realistically.
"There is this romantic idea among men that they are free agents in the marketplace, without any ties except to their individual selves," Ms. McCloskey said. "While men think of themselves in metaphors of competition, there is an assumption among women that we are together, helping each other survive." She added: "I was an aggressive, assertive male, and I felt comfortable. Now I am ashamed because that was so very macho."
Men, to this way of thinking, see an autonomous individual as the chief economic actor, each individual enhancing the marketplace by seeking his own pleasure or profit. Women, in contrast, are loving, flexible, graceful and caring, particularly for their children and for others within their families and social circles. They are more willing to act as a family unit or social group, subordinating their personal desires to the needs of the group.
Although Ms. McCloskey's unusual switch might make her seem the perfect case study to test whether gender affects thinking, her views raise eyebrows among some sister economists who resist any attempt to make their discipline a matter of gender. Indeed, the notion that male and female economists -- or male and female scientists, historians or architects, for that matter -- think differently has provoked heated debate.
Many female economists agree that differences exist but insist they are learned differences, imposed by a culture and a market economy that function mostly in the male image, assigning different roles to the sexes and treating women less well than men. Given the opportunity, "men can do anything that women can do intellectually and emotionally, and vice versa," said Barbara Bergman, an economist at American University.
Ms. Bergman is a leader of a small group of feminist economists (including men as well as women) who concern themselves with the issues that put women at a disadvantage in the marketplace. Child care is one. So are unequal pay, breast-feeding while holding a job, caring for old parents and doing most of the housework. Deirdre McCloskey is trying to join herself to this group.
"Feminine gestures are not God's own creation," Ms. McCloskey acknowledges in her memoir. "This of course I know. The social construction of gender is, after all, something a gender-crosser comes to know with unusual vividness. She does it for a living."
But having gone through the very difficult process of switching sexes, Ms. McCloskey, who cross-dressed for decades before she finally declared herself a woman, has a lot invested in the joys of her new womanhood. Whatever their origin, she says, feminine feelings and behavior rarely show up in men and certainly not in male-dominated mainstream economics, which she likens to "boys playing games in a sandbox."
Clearly, she enjoyed her new womanhood at the reunion. Harvard in 1964 was all male, but Radcliffe women from that year also participated, and at many events Ms. McCloskey seemed to be just another aging, successful "Cliffie," in her case a good-natured one, patient and sympathetic as a listener and quick to tell her story to puzzled classmates who, upon meeting her, vaguely remembered a male McCloskey in Adams House.
She had given some advance notice. "Are you sitting down?" she wrote in the reunion book, a collection of thumbnail updates mailed to the alumni before their gathering. "I've become a woman. No joke. I've always wanted to, and finally in 1995 did it. Now 'becoming a woman' is in some senses impossible. I still have XY genes and, what is more important, a man's life up to age 53. But some things can be done, with the result a very happy and very tall woman."
By the night of the square dance, under a huge tent in Radcliffe Yard, she felt quite at home as a woman, even having a tete-a-tete with a Radcliffe alumna whom Donald McCloskey had dated when they were freshmen. And after the paper-plate dinner, Ms. McCloskey danced for two hours. She coaxed a shy man onto the floor as her partner, a librarian, who had not, as a Harvard student, known Donald McCloskey, or any Radcliffe girls for that matter.
"I felt, as I was being swung, like I was very much in the women's role," she said. "I felt pretty and feminine. That is a wonderful feeling, a tremendous feeling. Even saying to the men, 'Come on now, dance,' that sort of talk, that is a woman's activity, a mother's and a grandmother's. Women feel a responsibility for making social arrangements and men take them for granted."
Her memoir is laced with passages that view men and women as being locked into gender roles, the women's role being by far the more satisfying and desirable.
From women on Iowa's faculty, for example, she learned this rule: "When you run into somebody, never rush by self-absorbed, as Donald did; always stop and chat." Or take this passage: "When the average grown-up woman leaves the table, she looks for stray cups to be washed, part of the cleaning, loving, caring that women are always doing half unconsciously."
Or this observation about herself: "Along with millions of other women in the world, she was sad watching the funeral of Princess Diana, in the coffee room of a motel in Dallas before electrolysis."
Or these nuances: "Women put their hands to their chests when speaking of themselves. Men barge through. Women look frequently at nonspeaking participants in a conversation. Men don't look at each other when talking."
Some female economists, citing such comments, call her a former man trying to teach women how to be women. "Deirdre is reprogramming herself as a woman, and that inevitably leads to a search for stereotypes," said Claudia Goldin, a Harvard economist and friend, acknowledging the criticism. Nancy Folbre, an economist at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, offers a different slant. If Ms. McCloskey's gender assignments seem exaggerated, Ms. Folbre said, they reflect her struggle to be "read" as a woman just when gender roles are becoming more androgynous.
No one has given Deirdre McCloskey more support through her gender-crossing than her 75-year-old mother, Helen McCloskey. She is the widow of a prominent Harvard professor, an expert on constitutional law who died of a heart attack in 1969, just as their eldest son, Donald, completed his Ph.D. in economics at Harvard and joined the University of Chicago faculty.
Helen McCloskey admired her husband's achievements, which she associated with maleness, and she sees in Deirdre the same "steely male intellectual quality" that her husband had, and Donald, too. Men, she argues, are the builders, the creators. She may be one herself. Left with an inadequate inheritance, Mrs. McCloskey, a housewife in marriage, has supported herself in widowhood by buying, fixing up and reselling 15 homes, living in them during the remodeling. Her latest acquisition, a two-bedroom house, is in Centreville on Cape Cod, and Deirdre visited on her way to the Harvard reunion. The subject of the steely male mind came up at breakfast.
"This is my firstborn, my wonderful, wonderful child who is so bright," she said. "One reason I can accept what she has done is that I do not see dramatic changes in her intellectual qualities acquired over a lifetime."
The daughter is uncomfortable. "Having done the steely bit," Deirdre McCloskey said, "I know where its cracks are, where its fool ishnesses lie." And the mother replied: "Those are conclusions you could have come to as a man. It is a maturing process. I think that had you remained a man, you would have matured. You would have softened."
Deirdre McCloskey's thinking has indeed evolved. But it started long before going full time as Deirdre in November 1995. Donald gave up tenure at Chicago and moved to Iowa in 1980 out of frustration that economic research at Chicago had become too focused on applied math and economic models that could prove any thesis, depending on the assumptions fed into the formulaic models.
Fame came to Donald McCloskey for "The Rhetoric of Economics," published in 1986, in which he argued that economics, for all its pretensions as a scientific discipline, is ultimately a conversation in which rhetoric -- language -- carries the argument. He also made a name for himself as a historian of the British economy by describing the measurable, "quantitative impact" of various forces and developments -- a far cry from the abstract, mathematical modeling prevalent today. Women are better at quantitative research than men, Ms. McCloskey says.
But few if any female economists share the policy solution that Ms. McCloskey is now trying to give to feminist economics. While the women favor a government role to help make women more equal to men in the job market -- child care subsidies, for example -- Deirdre advocates a libertarian approach, drawing on beliefs that Donald first embraced as a young economist. Government is likely to make matters worse, Ms. McCloskey says. Better to rely on the virtues that shaped economic behavior in Adam Smith's day. Instead of just "prudence," which is another way of saying self-interest or profit -- the virtue she says men like so much -- bring back four other woman-friendly virtues as motivating forces: love, courage, temperance, justice. She is writing a book on the subject.
Ms. Goldin, the Harvard economist and friend, is skeptical. Feminist economics has not produced concrete proposals, she says, and re-emphasizing the virtues is no exception. But Ms. McCloskey persists. "You discover that no matter how you come at it mathematically, an economy takes place in a moral universe," she said. "That has been a big problem for economists to understand; they are so tied to prudence they don't regard other virtues as having anything to do with economics."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Deirdre McCloskey, above, attended the class of 1964 reunion at Harvard University this month and posed with former residents of Adams House, where she lived when she was Donald. She contends that women look at economics more realistically than men do, with a greater emphasis on family and the group. (Greg Davis for The New York Times)(pg. B7); Donald McCloskey's picture in the Harvard yearbook from 1964. (Harvard University)(pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); NETHERLANDS (69%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NETHERLANDS (69%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMICS; WOMEN; MEN; TRANSSEXUALS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (90%); GENDER IDENTITY DISORDER (86%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); MEN (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); HISTORY (65%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (56%); 

PERSON: MCCLOSKEY, DEIRDRE (PROF); UCHITELLE, LOUIS DEIRDRE MCCLOSKEY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1999



386 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Fund To Cash Out Original Stakes

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
Long-Term Capital Management, the giant celebrity-studded hedge fund whose near-collapse last fall sparked concerns of an impending global market failure, is preparing to redeem investments made five years ago by its original outside partners, wealthy individuals and institutions that will wind up getting, on average, considerably less than they would have earned in a plain-vanilla stock index mutual fund.
In a letter distributed on Wednesday, Long-Term Capital, based in Greenwich, Conn., notified its original 1994 investors that it would cash out their stake in the $4.7 billion fund "in the near future." 
 That redemption, combined with cash distributed to those investors at the end of 1997, will produce a total average annual return of roughly 18.7 percent. During the same five-year period, the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index gained an average of 26.48 percent a year.
To be sure, the fund's return does not include the debatable value of a ringside seat at one of capitalism's most exciting 11th-hour rescues.
And while the payment will close the books on the original investors' experience, it is not clear how this drama will end for the fund's rescuers, some of Wall Street's largest institutions, and for its founding partners, who are already discussing forming a new money-management venture.
The hedge fund, founded in mid-1994 by a bond-market star, John W. Meriwether of Salomon Brothers, seemed to be touched by magic in its first three years of operation, enhancing Mr. Meriwether's already formidable reputation and generating wealth for his partners, who included two Nobel Prize-winning economists.
Every dollar invested in the fund in 1994 was worth $2.82 by the end of 1997, when $1.82 of those gains were distributed to outside investors.
As 1998 opened, the fund's managers had combined the $4.8 billion left in the fund with oceans of borrowed cash to accumulate a staggeringly complex portfolio worth about $125 billion. The portfolio was intended largely to exploit small deviations in the historic relationships among various interest rates.
But in August, a debt crisis in Russia set off a worldwide scramble for the safety of United States Treasury securities, distorting interest-rate patterns. The hedge fund's interest-rate bets suddenly began to plunge in value, ultimately wiping out 91 cents of every dollar that had been left in the fund at the beginning of 1998.
By late September, regulators were confronted with the possibility that the sudden liquidation of the hedge fund's huge portfolio would touch off panic in an already fragile and frightened global marketplace. Consequently, officials at the New York Federal Reserve Bank helped 14 banks and brokerage houses form a consortium to make an emergency $3.6 billion investment in the fund.
Under the plan the rescuers got a 90 percent stake in the fund, reducing the original outside investors' stake to just under 10 percent, with Mr. Meriwether and the other managing partners retaining only a tiny sliver of equity.
Since then, markets have stabilized, and the fund has steadily reduced the riskiness of its holdings and improved its investment results. It announced in March that it had gained roughly 20 percent since the bailout, and that it expected to be able to return some of its rescuers' capital later this year.
People briefed on the fund's plan said that Wednesday's letter was an outgrowth of the plan to return capital to the consortium.
But, in addition, the redemption moved Mr. Meriwether slightly closer to the day when he could be free of the consortium's involvement in the fund he founded. In addition to cashing out the original investors, the fund will also be making a partial payment to the consortium that bailed it out in September.
One person who knows about the plan said that somewhere in the neighborhood of $500 million would be distributed to the consortium, which includes the Bankers Trust Corporation, the Chase Manhattan Corporation, Goldman Sachs Group, Lehman Brothers Holdings, Merrill Lynch & Company, J. P. Morgan & Company, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company, and Citigroup, along with six European banks.
Not everyone involved with the hedge fund will fare as well as the original investors, who included top Wall Street executives, as well as a unit of the Bank of Italy. Various Merrill Lynch executives in that company's deferred compensation plan began tying their future earnings to the then-impressive hedge fund's results in April 1998 -- rather like boarding the Titanic just in time for the iceberg collision. They missed the handsome cash distributions, and apparently will suffer the full damage of the subsequent meltdown.
Of course, Mr. Meriwether and the other founding partners of Long-Term Capital also saw their equity in the fund virtually evaporate in the course of last fall's rescue.
But the damage done to the bank accounts and professional reputations of the founding partners does not seem to have dissolved the glue that binds them to Mr. Meriwether.
People who have been told the contents of E-mail that has circulated at the fund's offices in Greenwich say that at least five of Mr. Meriwether's original colleagues from the Salomon Brothers bond desk -- Eric Rosenfeld, Lawrence Hilibrand, Richard Leahy, Victor Hagani and Arjun Krishnamachar -- have agreed to join him in exploring the possibility of forming some new investment venture within the next six to 12 months.
It is likely that this new venture will be approaching potential sources of investment capital later this year, these people said.
Among those who will not be joining Mr. Meriwether's faithful band will be David W. Mullins Jr., who quit as vice chairman of the Federal Reserve to become a partner in Long-Term Capital. Two other jewels in Mr. Meriwether's crown, the Nobel laureate economists Myron S. Scholes and Robert C. Merton, have already left the fund. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: LONG-TERM CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP; STANDARD & POOR'S CORP FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG-TERM CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP; STANDARD & POOR'S CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; HEDGE FUNDS HEDGE FUNDS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INDEX FUNDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (68%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B JOHN W MERIWETHER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1999



387 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Bond Yield Falls Below 6%; Stocks Post Small Gains
Treasury bonds turned in their best weekly performance in more than eight months on expectations that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates by only a quarter percentage point later this month. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond fell to 5.97 percent from 6.16 percent last week. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 13.93 points, to 10,855.56, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 2.94 points, to 1,342.84. The Nasdaq composite index rose 19.29 points, to 2,563.44. The market outlook improved with comments on Thursday by the chairman of the Fed, Alan Greenspan, who suggested that a modest pre-emptive interest-rate increase would obviate the need for more drastic action later. Page C3.
 
Foreign Sales Are Hurting Gillette
Gillette is being dragged down by the weak international performance of some products, including Braun electric shavers, shaving cream and stationery, while its main business line of blades and razors is doing well. On Thursday, Gillette's management warned investors that second-quarter profits would fall 20 percent, to about 26 cents a share. Wall Street analysts had been expecting 29 cents, after some previous downward revisions. C3.
 
Licensing Deal for Music Web Site
Delivering music over the Internet won an important measure of legitimacy this week when the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers announced a licensing deal with the music Web site MP3.com. Under the agreement, songwriters whose work is offered on MP3.com and who agree to pay Ascap a $10 membership fee will receive royalty payments based on how often their music is downloaded or purchased as a compact disk. C2.
 
Shares of Intel Fall on Delay News
Shares of Intel dropped more than 5 percent, or $3.0625, to $54.9375, after the company informed personal computer manufacturers that a faster version of its Pentium III processor would be delayed by two months. Two analysts lowered their earnings estimates, but the consensus remained unchanged for the current quarter, at 54 cents a share. C4.
 
A Spoiler: Mexico's Banking System
In Mexico, a newly created federal bank insurance agency has initiated a $1.3 billion bailout of the nation's third-largest bank, Grupo Financiero Serfin, and is considering a $9 billion cleanup of Bancrecer. C2.
 
Lawsuit Draws Attention to Nafta
A $970 million lawsuit against the United States Government by a Canadian fuel additive manufacturer has focused attention on a clause in the North American Free Trade Agreement that experts say may have to be rewritten. It allows companies to sue the Governments of the United States, Canada or Mexico if export opportunities are lost for reasons unrelated to normal commerce. C2.
 
Commercial Banks Are Prospering
Improved international operations and strong trading revenue helped commercial banks book record profits in the first quarter of 1999, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation said. Insured commercial banks earned $18 billion in net income in the first three months of this year. C14.
 
Adobe Shares Up on Earnings News
Shares of Adobe Systems rose 12 percent after the company, a maker of graphics software used by magazines and newspapers, said its fiscal second-quarter earnings rose 61 percent, beating estimates. The company's shares rose $8.6875, to $82.5625. C14.
 
Alpharma Buys a Generic Drug Unit
Alpharma said that it had bought the German generic-drug business of Schwarz Pharma A.G. for about $150 million in cash, expanding its operations in Europe. Alpharma said the business, Isis Pharma Group, includes about 200 employees. No plants were included. C3.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,855.56 up 13.93
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.97% up 0.01
The Dollar -- 120.44 yen up 1.19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CBS INTERACTIVE INC (92%); BRAUN GMBH (56%); INTEL CORP (53%); GRUPO FINANCIERO SERFIN SA DE CV (51%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF COMPOSERS AUTHORS & PUBLISHERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF COMPOSERS AUTHORS & PUBLISHERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (93%); BONDS (92%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNET AUDIO (89%); STATIONERY PRODUCT MFG (88%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); MUSIC (86%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (85%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); ROYALTIES (73%); ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES MFG (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); SONG WRITING (70%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); COMPUTER MAKERS (64%); WRITERS (64%); LITIGATION (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); BAILOUTS (60%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (57%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%); FUEL ADDITIVES (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1999



388 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Team Chosen to Build Harlem Market

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
City officials announced yesterday that they had selected a development team to build a large supermarket on city-owned land in Central Harlem, but that they had left the politically sensitive decision of who will operate the store up to the developers. The decision means that the Pathmark chain, one of the losing applicants for the project, will have to compete with other supermarket operators to open a store at 145th Street and Bradhurst Avenue, a site that the company has had its eye on for more than a decade.
It also means that the Giuliani administration will be able to avoid choosing between local second-generation entrepreneurs who are seeking to expand their business, and Pathmark, a company with extensive experience in inner-city supermarkets. 
 "We are disappointed and frankly a bit puzzled by the decision," said Harvey Gutman, a senior vice president of Pathmark. He said the company, which opened a large store in East Harlem at 125th Street and Lexington Avenue in April, had spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on its Bradhurst proposal.
One of the four losing proposals was submitted by Matthew and Mauricio Fernandez, two young entrepreneurs who took over their father's seven supermarkets in Harlem when he was killed in an accident in 1996. The Fernandez brothers could not be reached for comment yesterday, but their spokesman, Richard Lipsky, said that the city's decision "throws the process wide open."
The winning team is led by the Related Companies, a Manhattan developer that was chosen last year to develop the new Time Warner headquarters on the Columbus Circle site occupied by the Coliseum. The other partners in the $35.4 million project are Harlem Congregations for Community Improvement, a community organization representing 75 churches and mosques, and two other private real estate developers: Leewood Real Estate Group, of Staten Island, and Salama Development and Consulting of Manhattan.
The developers said they would entertain proposals from anyone who might bring a high-quality market to the neighborhood. Tentative plans call for the market to be about 36,000 square feet -- about 14,000 square feet smaller than the new East Harlem Pathmark. Aside from that Pathmark, the only other large market in Harlem is the Fairway at 133d and the West Side Highway, which caters as much to Upper West Siders as to Harlem residents.
"We're very open," said R. Randy Lee, the chairman of Leewood Real Estate Group. "We need a tenant that's going to be bankable, with a track record that shows that they are responsive to the community."
The team also plans to build 104 two- and three-bedroom condominium apartments, which will sell for $140,000 to $160,000, and space for several smaller stores on the same site, he said.
Bruce A. Beal, a vice president of the Related Companies, said the developers would meet with the city Department of Housing and Preservation Development, the agency that selected the team. "They may have some thoughts in terms of having a local operator" for the supermarket, Mr. Beal said.
The city's decision was especially gratifying for Harlem Congregations for Community Improvement. The group has built 1,200 units of housing in the Bradhurst neighborhood and first began dreaming of adding a supermarket in 1986, said the organization's president, the Rev. Preston R. Washington, the pastor of the Memorial Baptist Church in Harlem.
In 1995, pastors in Harlem inspected the local markets and found them sorely wanting, Dr. Washington said. "It was very distressing to realize that the quality of goods was absolutely inferior and far more expensive than what other people were paying," he said.
But he said the Fernandez brothers were among the grocers in the neighborhood who had shown that they could work with the community and upgrade their goods and services. "They have been absolutely cooperative," he said. "They would be worth considering."
Dr. Washington said that the neighborhood desperately wanted to avoid the kind of racial animosity that erupted a few years ago over the East Harlem Pathmark. The site was developed by two African-American groups, and the owners of independent supermarkets in the neighborhood, most of them Dominican immigrants, bitterly attacked the project, saying the new Pathmark would drive them out of business.
"God knows, we do not want to have an interracial conflict," he said. "We are multicultural. This is going to be an economic opportunity -- to provide jobs and to be a generator for economic development."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A supermarket is to go up on this lot at 145th Street and Bradhurst Avenue in Harlem. The only other Harlem supermarkets are at Lexington Avenue and 125th Street and at 133d Street and the West Side Highway. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PTMK (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PATHMARK STORES INC; RELATED COMPANIES AQUANTIVE INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PATHMARK STORES INC; RELATED COMPANIES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; SUPERMARKETS GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CITY LIFE (74%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RELIGION (63%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (60%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; FERNANDEZ, MAURICIO; FERNANDEZ, MATTHEW; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) PRESTON R WASHINGTON (61%); MAURICIO FERNANDEZ (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1999



389 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Albany Notes;
A Longer Lobbying Law, But Not a Tougher One

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
Break the law regulating lobbying in Albany -- by, say, failing to make public that shovelfuls of money were spent getting a bill passed -- and the state will mete out a penalty that amounts to say-you're-sorry-and-won't-do-it-again. So with the law expiring at the end of the year, some advocacy groups are calling on the New York Legislature to follow the lead of other states and set up a stricter system, with more enforcement and disclosure requirements.
But having been repeatedly rebuffed in the past at getting changes in the law, the advocacy groups are advancing something of a doomsday scenario: if lawmakers don't want to toughen the law, fine. Let it lapse. Give lobbyists free rein. Nothing at all would be better than the sham law first adopted in the 1970's, the groups declared. 
 Legislative leaders were not amused, and fired back. Since it was first passed, the law has been renewed in two-year installments. This week, the leaders began pushing a bill in both the State Senate and Assembly to extend the law for four years, evidently seeking to rid themselves of those nagging do-gooders until well into the next decade.
Now the advocacy groups are not amused. "It is appalling that they would even consider a four-year extension," said Barbara Bartoletti, legislative director of the League of Women Voters of New York State.
 
Ethics Plan's Unlikely Foes
Proposals to revise ethics rules usually stir protests, but sometimes they come from the unlikeliest quarters. Take campaign finance. When Gov. George E. Pataki presented his plan this week to place new restrictions on the way politicians raise and spend money, restaurant workers in Albany were aghast.
It seems that the workers felt threatened by Mr. Pataki's decision to include a provision that would ban fund-raising in the state capital when the Legislature is in session. More than 20 other states have prohibited this practice, determining that it was unbecoming for lawmakers to ask lobbyists for donations just as the lobbyists were asking the lawmakers for help on bills.
In Albany, lawmakers have traditionally held hundreds of fund-raising events in restaurants and clubs around the Statehouse each year, thereby employing many waiters, bartenders and others.
"If they are looking for some kind of campaign reform, maybe they are looking in the wrong direction," grumbled Wolfgang Hammer, an official of an Albany union representing restaurant workers.
The Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, is no friend of campaign finance reform, and he will most likely block the Pataki plan this year. Yet at first, he appeared to like the ban. Mr. Bruno, a Republican, represents Troy, a suburb of Albany, and he figured that the fund-raisers would just move to his district.
"I thought it was an economic development program for Troy, and I was very responsive," he said, apparently only half-joking. Then he discovered that the provision prohibits the events within a 25-mile radius of the capital. "I'm not sure that makes a lot of sense," he said.
 
Subpoenas Replace Civility
When Governor Pataki formed a special commission in January to investigate the construction of schools and other education matters in New York, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani complained, but said he would provide the commission with whatever it needed. The commission responded that it would treat the administration fairly.
These days, the civility has withered, replaced by accusations and subpoenas. The commission wants to interview officials of the School Construction Authority, which the Mayor controls. The Mayor's aides agreed, but only if an authority lawyer was present. The commission balked, saying that the authority lawyer would prevent the interview subjects from speaking freely. It then issued subpoenas to the authority, which refused to abide by them. And so on.
The commission will probably ask a court to enforce the subpoenas. "We think that it's unfortunate that the S.C.A. has greatly lessened its cooperation," said Michael Marr, a commission spokesman.
The authority contended that there was nothing unusual about an authority lawyer monitoring the interviews. All the authority seeks "is a basic right to counsel," said its spokesman, Jack Deacy.
 
Winning Over the Skeptics
When Mr. Pataki nominated a new Health Commissioner earlier this month, he presented Democrats in Albany with a problem. The Governor's choice, Dr. Antonia Novello, received high marks from groups normally allied with the Democrats, including AIDS advocates and opponents of smoking. What's more, she is a Hispanic woman who has long said the government needs to do more to address the need of members of minority groups.
At the same time, though, the influential abortion rights movement was angered because Dr. Novello opposes abortion in most instances.
Dr. Novello, who was United States Surgeon General under President Bush, seemed to shine in her confirmation hearings before the State Senate this week, and it was soon clear that whatever the tempest over abortion, she had impressed many Democrats. Republicans control the State Senate, 36 to 25, so her nomination was all but assured. But the Senate confirmed her overwhelmingly with most of the Democrats voting yes. "Dr. Novello will be a passionate advocate for our most vulnerable citizens," said the Senate Democratic leader, Martin Connor of Brooklyn. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY (NYC); HEALTH DEPARTMENT (NYS) LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS OF NEW YORK STATE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY (NYC); HEALTH DEPARTMENT (NYS) LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS OF NEW YORK STATE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; ALBANY (NY); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS LOBBYING (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); ETHICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); RESTAURANTS (86%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); LEVY, CLIFFORD J; NOVELLO, ANTONIA (DR) GEORGE E PATAKI (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1999



390 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Commission on Gambling Prescribes Broad Changes

BYLINE: By BRETT PULLEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18

 BODY:
The enduring battle over legalized gambling in the United States received a new blueprint today when the National Gambling Impact Study Commission released the results of its two-year, $5 million study into the social and economic impact of the gambling boom.
As the report was handed over to President Clinton, members of Congress, governors and Indian tribal leaders, gambling advocates and foes alike wasted little time seizing upon the document and selectively highlighting the aspects that seemed to best suit their positions. 
 Representative Jim Gibbons, Republican of Nevada, issued a statement proclaiming that "as this commission properly reports, gaming enjoys a positive image as part of the mainstream culture of American society."
But Tom Grey, executive director of the National Coalition Against Legalized Gambling, called the report "a wake-up call for America on the dangers of gambling."
The commission's study was the first Federal examination of the gambling industry conducted since 1976, and since then, revenues from legal wagering have grown nearly 1,600 percent, to more than $50 billion. At least one form of legal wagering is conducted in 47 states.
With the work of the nine-member commission complete, the scene of the gambling debate will shift venues. State legislatures and Congress must now decide which, if any, of the report's 76 recommended changes for regulating casinos, state lotteries, pari-mutuel games and video betting machines to make law.
"Now the great debate begins," said Representative Frank R. Wolf, the Virginia Republican who sponsored the legislation that established the commission. "And we'll have to see where it all falls out." Mr. Wolf, a staunch opponent of gambling, said he planned to introduce legislation to fulfill many recommendations.
The recommendations in the report, which states that gambling activities "have become familiar backdrops to daily life," include these:
*Impose a moratorium on gambling expansion to allow states time to assess the possible impact.
*Require all gambling to be limited to those 21 and older. Some states allow 18-year-olds to buy lottery tickets and patronize casinos.
*Ban gambling on the Internet, a business that has mushroomed over the last few years.
*Ban all wagering on college and amateur sports. Such betting currently takes place only in Las Vegas.
*Ban all political contributions to state and local campaigns by gambling companies.
*Curtail lottery advertising, and decrease the number of outlets selling lottery products.
But no issue seemed to receive more attention from the commission than problem gambling. Over two thirds of the recommendations in the report involve research on and treatment for problem gamblers, who the commission found accounted for 15 percent of the industry's gross revenues. Among those recommendations is a call for state and tribal governments to use a "gambling privilege tax" to create a dedicated fund to address problem and pathological gambling. Most states with casinos collect such a tax but would still need to adopt legislation that would dedicate some of the money to problem gambling.
Another recommendation calls for extending medical insurance for problem and pathological gamblers. The commission said 15.4 million adult and adolescent gamblers fall into those categories.
"That 15.4 million number sticks in my mind," said Leo T. McCarthy, a commission member and a former Lieutenant Governor of California. "That's a fairly heavy price to pay unless we go after that downside."
Despite such alarming statistics, the very first sentence in the first chapter of the report states that "Today, the vast majority of Americans either gamble recreationally and experience no measurable side effects related to their gambling, or they choose not to gamble at all."
The report goes on to note that because of legalized gambling, "sleepy backwaters have become metropolises almost overnight; skyscrapers rise on the beaches at once-fading tourist areas; legions of employees testify to the hope and opportunities that the casinos have brought them and their families; some Indian nations have leapt from prolonged neglect and deprivation to sudden abundance."
Such laudatory phrases were quickly treated like declarations of emancipation by executives and leaders of the casino industry, who had feared that the commission study would result in a full-scale indictment of their businesses.
"The verdict is in and the accused has been exonerated," said Frank J. Fahrenkopf Jr., the president of the American Gaming Association, the gambling industry's lobbying arm. In a statement he handed out following today's news conference, he added, "The commission puts to rest claims of organized crime involvement, of increased crime related to casinos, of exaggerated numbers of pathological gamblers, of economic benefits being outweighed by absurdly high social costs and a host of other outrageous charges we've had to deal with for years."
But as was evident by statements each commissioner made in the news conference, how the report was interpreted depended on who was doing the interpreting. James C. Dobson, the commission's most strident gambling opponent and the founder and president of Focus on the Family, a conservative nonprofit organization, said that after two years of studying the issue, "I am even more convinced now that gambling is a destroyer."
J. Terrence Lanni, the chairman and chief executive at MGM Grand casinos and a commission member, lauded his fellow commissioners for refusing to recommend that the Federal Government regulate or tax casinos, as had been feared when the commission first convened.
"The states are best left to determine the regulation and taxation of this industry," Mr. Lanni said. He and other commissioners noted that although they were deeply and emotionally divided on the issue of gambling from the outset, they were able to compromise and complete the report. The commission, Mr. Lanni quipped, "started with the notion that we needed metal detectors coming into our meetings."
And for the first time since the commission began its work, Kay C. James, the chairwoman, publicly stated her personal position on gambling. "Kay James, if it comes as a big surprise, is anti-gaming," she said.
Ms. James had routinely voted in favor of anti-gambling measures, but her refusal to push for some tough measures -- like Federal taxes and regulations on the big casino companies -- had led to some recent speculation in the media that she was controlled by the powerful industry, a charge she denied.
"I am a black, conservative Republican, pro-life, evangelical Christian," Ms. James said. "Do you think I can be influenced?"
With the anxiety and speculation over the commission's report behind them, the legislators who can pass the laws that will affect the gambling industry are girding for a battle.
"Our goal now is to insure the report's recommendations on under-age and problem gambling are adopted by policy makers at the national, state and local levels," said Keith Whyte, executive director of the National Council on Problem Gambling, a nonprofit organization. "It's only halftime in the game."
With Mr. Wolf of Virginia promising to get legislation passed in Congress and appeal to the nation's governors to do the same at the state level, two of New Jersey's Representatives in Congress who also happen to be two of Atlantic City's biggest champions were promising to fight some of the initiatives.
In a call with reporters following the news conference, Representative Frank A. LoBiondo, a Republican, and Senator Robert G. Torricelli, a Democrat, said they would oppose dedicating a portion of the gambling taxes that the state already collects to finance research and treatment for problem gambling.
"This would be like having a tax on beer because there's a problem with alcoholism," Mr. Torricelli said. "In our society we deal with funding for these problems on a voluntary basis." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GAMBLING IMPACT STUDY COMMISSION NATIONAL GAMBLING IMPACT STUDY COMMISSION (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GAMBLING IMPACT STUDY COMMISSION NATIONAL GAMBLING IMPACT STUDY COMMISSION (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY GAMING (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOTTERIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%); SPORTS (65%); AMATEUR SPORTS (65%); 

PERSON: PULLEY, BRETT; JAMES, KAY C BILL CLINTON (73%); JIM GIBBONS (70%); BARNEY FRANK (56%); FRANK R WOLF (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1999



391 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: An Agreement On Debt Relief For Poor Lands

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: COLOGNE, Germany, June 18

 BODY:
Leaders from the Group of Seven industrial nations agreed today to cut the debt burden of the world's poorest countries in what they described as a decisive push to alleviate poverty.
President Jacques Chirac of France said the relief, mainly for African countries, could total about $65 billion. But Gene Sperling, the national economic adviser to President Clinton, said the amount could approach $90 billion if other creditors join the initiative. 
 Some loans -- about $15 billion worth -- would be canceled outright, and mechanisms would be put in place to evaluate the countries for other forms of debt relief, based on future economic reforms.
If countries outside the Group of Seven "were to share in this effort, then a full 70 percent of the $127 billion owed by qualifying states could be relieved," Mr. Sperling said.
He estimated that 33 countries could benefit, including Ethiopia, Niger, Nicaragua, Tanzania, Uganda, Ghana, Rwanda and Mozambique. Some charitable organizations have argued for more debt forgiveness, but the lenders oppose setting a precedent of wiping out all of a lender's debt.
The leaders of the group's members -- the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Canada and Japan -- said the resources made available by the relief should be used for health and educational programs, particularly AIDS programs in Africa. Congress would be asked to approve some elements of the plan.
The decision came on the first day of a three-day summit meeting devoted largely to Kosovo and the troubled relations with Moscow caused by the war there. Prime Minister Sergei V. Stepashin of Russia joined the seven leaders after their debt discussions, and President Boris N. Yeltsin is expected on Sunday.
Samuel R. Berger, President Clinton's national security adviser, said the debt relief plan would have "an enormous impact on poorer countries, perhaps more than any other single action taken by the developed countries at any time."
But the reality seems more uncertain. Similar promises in the past have proved agonizingly slow in application. Some of the affected countries cannot meet their debts in any event, so they will not abruptly find themselves with more money. Others struggle to keep current in making payments, but without stable governance the impact on their societies may be slight.
"We are demonstrating we are active and concerned, but unless we really invest in establishing civil society in these countries, we may be pouring water into sand," said Norbert Walter, the chief economist at Deutsche Bank. "Opening agricultural markets in Europe and the United States might have provided more real help to these states."
Still, the decision clearly reflects a sense of urgency born of the realization that a program of debt relief for the poorest countries set in motion in 1996 proved too limited, stringent and slow for the more than 400 million people potentially affected.
Under the extended plan announced today, the Group of Seven will cancel between $15 billion and $20 billion of official development assistance debt -- money lent on easy terms.
Mr. Chirac said members of the group would bear the cost of debt relief equitably among themselves. The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, whose main shareholders are the wealthy nations, made most of the lending, for development.
Further relief will be provided by international financial institutions like the monetary fund and by the forgiving of trade debts backed by government guarantees. Businesses that have made loans to qualifying countries will be asked to make similar concessions.
In general the criteria for qualifying for relief will be eased and the procedure accelerated, allowing a list of 26 countries that secured debt cuts under the 1996 plan to be expanded to 33 states. The newly qualified countries include Benin, Ghana, Honduras, Laos and Senegal.
Mr. Sperling took the example of Mozambique, which is about to qualify for relief under the plan, to illustrate its effectiveness, suggesting that the 30 percent of the country's resources that is now used for debt service would be cut to 15 percent.
"That would free up $30 million of debt service per year, allowing the health budget to be increased by 50 percent," he said.
But Oxfam, one of several charitable organizations that has been lobbying for more sweeping debt relief, said in a statement that even with the new measures, Mozambique would be paying twice as much a year for debt payments as for primary education.
What seems clear is that unless the measures are accompanied by determined programs for the relief of poverty, the establishment of the rule of law and sharply improved standards of government, they are unlikely to have a significant impact in Africa, the principal target.
The plan would be financed to a small degree by the possible sale of close to 10 percent of the gold reserves of the International Monetary Fund. Earlier discussions of such a move by finance ministers worried some traders, who say the price of gold could be further depressed.
The leaders said the monetary fund should finance the cost of the program partly through "use of interest on the proceeds of a limited and cautiously phased sale of up to 10 million ounces of the I.M.F.'s gold reserves." Those sales have to be approved by Congress and the monetary fund itself. At current prices they would yield about $2.8 billion.
Turning from the world's poorest regions to the general state of the world economy, the leaders approved a six-point plan aimed at stabilizing world financial markets in the wake of the contagious crises that spread through Asia, Russia and Latin America in 1997 and last year.
The measures fell short of many of the more radical proposals made since the dangers of a fast-moving globalized economy became evident. Those included regulating hedge funds, introducing forms of capital control and vastly increasing the powers of the monetary fund.
Instead, the leaders decided to create a so-called Financial Stability Forum, bringing together international regulators and the authorities from the Group of Seven; provide new monetary fund credit lines to protect developing countries with sound policies; increase the standards of disclosure demanded of governments and financial institutions; impose capital charges on banks that better reflect the risk of lending, and prepare programs for rapid monetary fund and World Bank support of the most needy in any future crisis.
"The world has proved crazy of late," President Chirac said, alluding to Kosovo and the financial crises. "We are taking measures to create a world that is more stable, more generous and more courageous."
His words reflected a sort of millennium fever that seemed to infect the leaders as they proclaimed the arrival of a braver new world. The relief at the end of the air war in Kosovo and, late in the day, at an accord on a Russian troop deployment with the NATO forces in the province was palpable.
But President Clinton was obliged to deal with a mundane and contentious reality in a meeting with Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi of Japan. Although the President proclaimed himself "thrilled" with Japan's surprisingly strong first-quarter economic performance, he warned of tension over United States imports of Japanese steel.
Congress has threatened to impose quotas on the Japanese steel industry, and Mr. Obuchi expressed concern at what he called the "growing protectionist sentiment" in Congress. But Mr. Clinton told Mr. Obuchi that steel imports, which have recently declined somewhat, would have to drop further and said he might not be able to prevent a Congressional imposition of quotas.
"The point that was made to the Prime Minister was that they need to get their imports down to pre-crisis levels, because this is a bill that he may not be able to sustain a veto on," said Joe Lockhart, a spokesman for Mr. Clinton.
After the Asian financial crisis curtailed Japanese steel exports to its neighbors, Japan's exports to the United States soared to 4 million tons last year from 2.8 million tons in 1997.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Meeting yesterday in Cologne were, clockwise from upper left, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, Germany; Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi, Japan; Prime Minister Massimo d'Alema, Italy; Jacques Santer, the European Commission; Prime Minister Sergei V. Stepashin, Russia; Prime Minister Jean Chretien, Canada; President Jacques Chirac, France; President Clinton and Prime Minister Tony Blair, Britain. (Associated Press)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (51%); DBK (FRA) (51%); DBK (BIT) (51%); DBETN (JSE) (51%); DBA (ASX) (51%); DB (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); CANADA (93%); AFRICA (93%); GERMANY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); KOSOVO (79%); GHANA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); UGANDA (79%); NIGER (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (51%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; GERMANY; ITALY; CANADA; JAPAN; FRANCE (94%); CANADA (93%); AFRICA (93%); GERMANY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); KOSOVO (79%); GHANA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); UGANDA (79%); NIGER (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID; GROUP OF SEVEN; SUMMIT CONFERENCES PRIME MINISTERS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); CHARITIES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); APPROVALS (65%); AIDS & HIV (53%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; SPERLING, GENE (CHMN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES) JACQUES CHIRAC (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); JEAN CHRETIEN (50%); TONY BLAIR (50%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1999



392 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 
Kosovo Rebels Establish Interim Local Governments
The Kosovo Liberation Army is setting up interim governments in a number of cities, moving rapidly to fill the civic vacuum. Their major problem, several of the newly minted officials said, is that there is virtually no food and tens of thousands more refugees are on the way. In one case of exerting their self-appointed authority, the rebels arrested and apparently beat several prisoners, one so severely that he died. A1 

Russia and the United States signed an agreement that divides the bulk of 3,600 Russian troops among three of the five NATO sectors. A1
 
Three months after American spy satellites identified a large mass burial site in Kosovo, the bodies of the victims of a mass execution are gone from the site, villagers said. They said Yugoslav forces fought their way into the area two weeks ago, unearthed 119 bodies and hauled them away by truck. A7
 
Kosovo Update A6
 
World Leaders Reduce Debt
Leaders from the Group of Seven major industrial nations, meeting in Germany, agreed to slash the debt burden of the world's poorest countries in what they described as a decisive push to eliminate poverty. A1
 
Helms Optimistic on Holbrooke
Richard C. Holbrooke, left, appeared to be on the brink of winning his yearlong struggle to become chief American diplomat at the United Nations, after Jesse Helms, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, suggested that Senate approval of his nomination was imminent. A3
 
Disputed Leader Visits Tibet
The 9-year-old declared by China to be the Panchen Lama, the second-ranking Tibetan Buddhist spiritual leader, has appeared in the capital of Tibet, for the first time since his appointment in 1995, the state press reported. A8
 
Rebel Fighting in Russia
Russia closed all but 10 of its 60 checkpoints along the Chechnya border after firefights with Chechen rebels killed 7 Russian policemen and Interior Ministry troops and wounded 14 others. A8
 
World Briefing A4
 
NATIONAL A9-12
 
House Ends Up Rejecting Gun-Control Legislation
The House concluded a bitter, wide-ranging debate over the seeds of violence among American children by voting down, 280 to 147, a package of new restrictions on firearms that was significantly weaker than legislation approved by the Senate last month. An odd coalition of liberal Democrats, moderate Republicans and conservative opponents of gun control in both parties banded together to defeat the House measures, which struck many lawmakers as too little and others as too much. A House juvenile-crime bill that was passed on Thursday, before the companion legislation on gun control was considered, will proceed to a conference committee to be reconciled with a Senate juvenile-crime bill that does include restrictions on firearms. A1
 
Gov. George W. Bush, a Republican Presidential hopeful, signed a bill making it illegal for any Texas city or other local government to sue gun manufacturers. Vice President Al Gore, who is seeking the Democratic nomination, quickly accused Mr. Bush of being soft on gun control. A11
 
Gambling in America
The National Gambling Impact Study Commission issued the results of its two-year, $5 million study into the social and economic effects of gambling. State legislatures and Congress must decide which, if any, of the report's 76 recommended changes for regulating casinos, state lotteries, pari-mutuel games and video betting machines to make law. A9
 
Anti-Semitic Arson in California
A wave of apparently coordinated arson attacks struck three of the five synagogues in the Sacramento area within 45 minutes, causing nearly $1 million in damage. Federal authorities opened a sweeping investigation into what they described as deliberate hate crimes, in which anti-Jewish fliers were found at two fires. A9
 
Unusual Charges of Racism
The police superintendent of Chicago, Terry Hillard, said officers had violated department policy in the fatal shootings of two unarmed blacks and he said video cameras would be placed in patrol cars. Although Mr. Hillard, the officers and the dead people are black, critics have accused the police of racism in the shootings. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Chancellor Will Remove 5 School Superintendents
Chancellor Rudy Crew has decided to remove at least five superintendents because he has lost confidence in their ability to lead and to improve student achievement, aides said. A1
 
City Likes New Parking Meters
City officials have judged an experiment with new European-style "P-Muni Meters" a success and are planning to install more of the machines around the city this fall. B1
 
Decision on Harlem Market Site
City officials chose a development team to build a large supermarket on city-owned land in Harlem, but left the decision of who will operate it to the developers, a setback for Pathmark, which spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on its proposal. B3
 
Network and Union Reach Deal
ABC and the union representing camera operators, editors and other technical staff members nationwide announced a tentative contract. B3
 
Governor Acts on Gun Shows
Governor Pataki issued an order requiring a background check for anyone who buys a firearm at a gun show held on state property. B5
 
Beliefs B6
 
ARTS & IDEAS B7-16
 
MOMA Deal to Keep Artworks
The Museum of Modern Art reached an agreement with descendants of the Russian avant-garde artist Kasimir Malevich to retain 15 works it has had in safekeeping since 1935. B7
 
SPORTS D1-10
 
2 in a Row for San Antonio
The Spurs took a 2-0 lead in the N.B.A. title series, beating the Knicks, 80-67. Game 3 is Monday. D1
 
OBITUARIES A16
 
Bob Bullock
The earthy, string-pulling, hard-living former Lieutenant Governor of Texas was 69. A16
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-16
 
H.M.O. Pulls Out of Northeast
Kaiser Permanente will close its money-losing Northeast division on Jan. 1, a move that affects 575,000 members in New York, Connecticut, Vermont and Massachusetts. C1
 
Litton to Admit Wrongdoing
Litton Industries, the shipbuilding and defense-electronics giant, agreed to plead guilty to three charges stemming from illegal payments to obtain nearly $200 million in military business in Greece and Taiwan, American officials said. It will pay an $18.5 million fine. C1
 
Coke Reeling in Europe
Spain and Germany acted on concerns about the purity of European Coca-Cola products. Coke's top executive, M. Douglas Ivester, flew to Brussels to oversee the response to the growing image problem. C1
 
Hedge Fund's Modest Payout
Long-Term Capital Management, whose near-collapse last fall raised concern of an impending global market failure, will redeem investments made five years ago by its original outside partners. They will get, on average, much less than a stock index mutual fund would have paid. C1
 
Stocks End Week Higher
The Dow was up 13.93 points, at 10,855.56; for the week, it gained 365.05 points. The Nasdaq and the S.& P. 500 rose slightly on the day. C3
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: Russia's military role in Kosovo; Ms. Browner responds on clean air; helping the disabled work; Floyd Norris on overvalued companies.
 
Columns: Frank Rich.
 
Bridge B15
 
TV Listings B16
 
Crossword B14
 
Weather D10
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NCTY (NASDAQ) (54%); 

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); TIBET (93%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: THE9 LTD (54%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); TIBET (93%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GUN CONTROL (87%); FIREARMS (85%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); REFUGEES (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); LIBERALISM (64%); RELIGION (63%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1999



393 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: When More Medicine Saves Money

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re Mark Schiller's June 15 Op-Ed article against parity in mental health care coverage: The American Psychiatric Association has documented the high economic costs of untreated mental illness. According to the National Mental Health Advisory Council, parity for severe mental illness would save $2.2 billion a year. There are also studies showing that the likely effect of parity would be to increase typical plan premiums modestly, by 2.5 percent to 3.9 percent. 
 The Congressional Budget Office projected a 4 percent premium increase for the full-parity amendment that Senators Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici sponsored. (A scaled-back amendment was enacted into law.) In North Carolina, a parity law for state employees shows that this benefit does not increase total health care costs and may even reduce them.
ANTHONY F. VILLAMENA, M.D.
Rye, N.Y., June 16, 1999
The writer is a psychiatrist.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PSYCHIATRIC ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN PSYCHIATRIC ASSOCIATION (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PSYCHIATRIC ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN PSYCHIATRIC ASSOCIATION (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; HEALTH INSURANCE PSYCHIATRY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (86%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); 

PERSON: VILLAMENA, ANTHONY F (DR); SCHILLER, MARK (DR) PETE DOMENICI (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1999



394 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW YORK;
City Employees Charged In Benefits Scheme

 BODY:
More than two dozen municipal employees, including 15 school nurses, were arrested yesterday and charged with illegally collecting more than $70,000 in unemployment benefits over the last five years while working for New York City, authorities said.
The 28 people arrested were seasonal employees, who worked in a variety of agencies, including the departments of parks, highways and public health. Most collected between $1,000 and $3,000 in benefits for which they were not eligible, officials said. 
 Edward J. Kuriansky, Commissioner of the Department of Investigation, said the workers were employed by the city for only part of the year and collected unemployment benefits during the months they were temporarily laid off.
To collect benefits, the defendents used a telephone system to register as unemployed. But once they went back to work, they continued to claim they were jobless. Most of those arrested face sentences of up to four years if convicted; seven of those whose thefts exceeded $3,000 face more serious charges and prison terms of up to seven years.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DEPARTMENT OF INVESTIGATION (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF INVESTIGATION (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); ARRESTS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); LARCENY & THEFT (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); INSURANCE FRAUD (74%); SEASONAL WORKERS (73%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); INSURANCE (71%); SENTENCING (66%); 

PERSON: EDWARD J KURIANSKY (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1999



395 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: June 20, 1999

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1		1	HARRY POTTER AND THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS, by J. K. Rowling. (Levine/Scholastic, $17.95.) A British boy finds trouble when he returns to a witchcraft school.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	5	WHITE OLEANDER, by Janet Fitch. (Little, Brown, $24.) The ordeals of growing up as experienced by a teen-age girl whose single mother murders a lover.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	1	5	STAR WARS: Episode I -- The Phantom Menace, by Terry Brooks. (Lucas/Ballantine, $25.) How it all began for Anakin Skywalker (a k a Darth Vader).		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	5	169	OH, THE PLACES YOU'LL GO! by Dr. Seuss. (Random House, $17.) Verse and pictures.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	4	4	CERTAIN PREY, by John Sandford. (Putnam, $24.95.) Lucas Davenport pursues a hit woman.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	3	7	WE'LL MEET AGAIN, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A woman struggles to free herself of the suspicion that she murdered her husband.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	8	26	HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE, by J. K. Rowling. (Levine/Scholastic, $16.95.) A British boy finds his fortune attending a school for witchcraft.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	6	9	THE GIRL WHO LOVED TOM GORDON, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $16.95.) A young girl who is a fan of the Boston Red Sox gets lost in the woods.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	7	18	THE TESTAMENT, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $27.95.) A reclusive billionaire, a burned-out lawyer and a missionary are brought together by a startling secret.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	10	7	EAST OF THE MOUNTAINS, by David Guterson. (Harcourt Brace, $25.) A man with cancer returns to the eastern Washington of his youth to commit suicide.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	9	9	A NEW SONG, by Jan Karon. (Viking, $24.95.) A clergyman and his wife move 600 miles from home, creating new friendships and maintaining old ones.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12	13	4	THE WHITE HOUSE CONNECTION, by Jack Higgins. (Putnam, $25.95.) Tracking an assassin who threatens the stability of the British and American Governments.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13		1	THE GIRLS' GUIDE TO HUNTING AND FISHING, by Melissa Bank. (Viking, $23.95.) The progress of a young New York woman through the terrain of sex and love.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14	11	4	BEYOND THE GREAT SNOW MOUNTAINS, by Louis L'Amour. (Bantam, $16.95.) Ten short stories ranging from the Old West to Hollywood to Siberia.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15		1	 *DANGEROUS KISS, by Jackie Collins. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) Lucky Santangelo copes with many problems as she tracks down the killer of a member of her family.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 16	14	2	 *A GOD IN RUINS, by Leon Uris. (HarperCollins, $26.) On his way to the White House, Quinn Patrick O'Connell discovers a secret that imperils his political future.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	27	THE GREATEST GENERATION, by Tom Brokaw. (Random House, $24.95.) The lives of men and women who came of age during the Depression and World War II.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	3	4	EVERY MAN A TIGER, by Tom Clancy with Chuck Horner. (Putnam, $27.95.) The novelist and a retired Air Force general examine the Persian Gulf war.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	2	87	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Doubleday, $19.95.) A sportswriter tells of his weekly visits to his old college mentor, who was near death's door.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	4	4	BETRAYAL, by Bill Gertz. (Regnery, $27.95.) A reporter charges that the Clinton Administration has undermined America's security. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	15	2	I AIN'T GOT TIME TO BLEED, by Jesse Ventura. (Villard, $19.95.) Reflections on politics, pro wrestling and other subjects by the Governor of Minnesota.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	13	2	CINDERELLA STORY, by Bill Murray with George Peper. (Doubleday, $19.95.) The golfing adventures of the actor and comedian.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	8	2	 *ENCORE PROVENCE, by Peter Mayle. (Knopf, $23.) The author of "A Year in Provence" recounts further experiences in the south of France.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	5	9	BELLA TUSCANY, by Frances Mayes. (Broadway, $25.) An American writer remembers a spring and summer spent in the romantic sections of Italy.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	12	7	THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A journalist explains the instant electronic global economy.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	10	22	THE ART OF HAPPINESS, by the Dalai Lama and Howard C. Cutler. (Riverhead, $22.95.) What Buddhist doctrines and common sense tell us about dealing with everyday problems.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	9	14	 *YESTERDAY, I CRIED, by Iyanla Vanzant. (Simon & Schuster, $22.) A counselor describes how she turned painful experiences into feelings of hope.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12	11	10	 *THE MAJORS, by John Feinstein. (Little, Brown, $25.) A sportswriter reports on the 1998 Masters, U.S. Open, British Open and P.G.A. golf tournaments.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	7	29	THE CENTURY, by Peter Jennings and Todd Brewster. (Doubleday, $60.) An account of the 20th century, complete with photographs and first-person narratives.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14	14	3	 *NO ONE LEFT TO LIE TO, by Christopher Hitchens. (Verso, $19.) A journalist's critical view of the public and private life of Bill Clinton. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15		2	SHY BOY, by Monty Roberts. (HarperCollins, $30.) The rapport that developed between a wild mustang and a professional horse trainer.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	2	4	SUZANNE SOMERS' GET SKINNY ON FABULOUS FOOD, by Suzanne Somers. (Crown, $24.) A diet regimen to help people lose weight and remain healthy. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	1	49	SUGAR BUSTERS! by H. Leighton Steward et al. (Ballantine, $22.) A diet designed for losing weight, increasing energy and combating disease. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	4	CONGRATULATIONS! NOW WHAT? by Bill Cosby. (Hyperion, $15.95.) The television star offers advice for new college graduates.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	4	20	ONE DAY MY SOUL JUST OPENED UP, by Iyanla Vanzant. (Fireside/S&S, $13.) How to raise one's morale and realize one's ambitions. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending June 5, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books.
 
And Bear in Mind
(Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)
 
THE BOY ON THE GREEN BICYCLE: A Memoir, by Margaret Diehl. (Soho, $25.) After the deaths of her brother and father, the author devised a host of inventive, if ultimately destructive, self-intoxications; she enumerates them in a memoir that explores the line between enchantment and insanity.
 
A CLEARING IN THE DISTANCE: Frederick Law Olmsted and America in the Nineteenth Century, by Witold Rybczynski. (Scribner, $28.) How a modest man with no formal training in landscaping became a symphonist of public space, designing Central Park and other scenic masterworks.
 
CLOSE RANGE: Wyoming Stories, by Annie Proulx. (Scribner, $25.) A collection that depicts the New West within the framework of the Wild West, and discovers life hasn't changed all that much.
 
ELEMENTALS: Stories of Fire and Ice, by A. S. Byatt. (Random House, $21.95.) In stories that home in on the place where esthetics and moralism meet, priggish northerners fettered by incuriosity (the greatest crime in the Byatt universe) are forced to rub up against a warmer-blooded breed -- artists, mostly -- unremittingly interested in the world around them.
 
1185 PARK AVENUE: A Memoir, by Anne Roiphe. (Free Press, $25.) Shunning confessionalism in favor of critical detachment, Roiphe recalls her affluent girlhood, where Scotch flowed daily at 5 and children wanted for nothing but parental affection.
 
HAVANA BAY, by Martin Cruz Smith. (Random House, $24.95.) Arkady Renko, taciturn Russian police detective and star of "Gorky Park," fetches up in Cuba bent on suicide; he is revitalized when his plan is rudely thwarted by a would-be assassin.
 
LAST THINGS, by Jenny Offill. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.) A quirky first novel follows its 7-year-old protagonist as she observes the descent into madness of her mother, who has built them a private cosmos filled with signs and wonders.
 
LAYOVER, by Lisa Zeidner. (Random House, $24.) This novel's heroine, who has endured maternal loss and marital betrayal, simply fails to come home one day, embarking on a parallel life of free (read illegal) hotel rooms and relentless sexual conquest.
 
MARY PICKFORD REDISCOVERED: Rare Pictures of a Hollywood Legend, by Kevin Brownlow. (Abrams/Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, $39.95.) America's first film star, this reappraisal argues, was more than the sum of her golden ringlets: urchin and princess, she was an adroit shapeshifter worthy of serious attention.
 
TIPPING THE VELVET, by Sarah Waters. (Riverhead, $25.95.) Suffused with eros, this picaresque first novel chronicles a wide-eyed Victorian girl's ardor for a music-hall actress, her life in London's mean streets and her eventual redemption. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%); BOSTON, MA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TEEN SUICIDE (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); BASEBALL (62%); SINGLE PARENTS (55%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (57%); J K ROWLING (57%); JOHN GRISHAM (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



396 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 60; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3142 words

HEADLINE: Surfing On the Slippery Skin Of a Bubble

BYLINE: By Po Bronson; Po Bronson is a writer based in San Francisco. His nonfiction book about Silicon Valley, "The Nudist on the Late Shift," is due out this month.

 BODY:
For a homeless shelter's annual charity auction not long ago, Steve Jurvetson, a venture capitalist, donated a breakfast with himself not long ago at Buck's Restaurant. Buck's is a bustling diner in Woodside, Calif., a single-intersection hamlet nestled into an oak grove at the base of the San Mateo County foothills. The booths at Buck's are upholstered in ocher Naugahyde and the menus have the feel of political-action newsletters and the owners are mighty proud of their coffeecake. Buck's also happens to be the place where Netscape and many other high-tech companies were hatched.
"Breakfast at Buck's" was sold off by way of the Internet site Ebay at the end of February; 78 bids after the auction started, a budding Manhattan entrepreneur named Mark Hernandez offered to pay $4,400 for the privilege of flying out to Silicon Valley two weeks later to present his business idea. That might sound like a lot of money to have breakfast with someone, but Jurvetson is a venture capitalist with a reputation -- young, enthusiastic, open-minded. He can be found at Buck's most mornings. He bounds in like a kangaroo, exuberant, flashing a joyous smile, his youthful face tanned from his noon-hour games of ultimate Frisbee. He is generally more dapper than his colleagues, wearing a charcoal Czechoslovakian hand-made suit over a cobalt shirt with faint royal blue pin-stripes. His tie picks up these colors perfectly; the black wing tips on his large feet shine. In the plastic window of his wallet is the bridal portrait of his wife of eight years, Karla, who is a psychiatrist at Stanford. 
 He has a prototypical resume for a Silicon Valley V.C.: earned B.S. and M.S. degrees from Stanford, designed microchips at Hewlett-Packard, learned management consulting at Bain & Company, returned to Stanford for his M.B.A. and then beat out 250 other applicants for a position at Draper Fisher, the venture firm. Prototypical resume, except for the date column: as an undergrad, he tricked the registration computer -- which blocked signing up for more than 20 units -- by penciling in just two units of credit on what were five-unit classes. In this way, he was able to take eight classes at once and finish in two and a half years with an A plus average. Think that's fast? The conventional wisdom in Silicon Valley is that it takes three years to learn the craft. Steve Jurvetson made partner in six months. He was 28.
Venture capitalists' favorite unit of measurement is the factor X. They live life on multiplication scale, and anything less than X is inconsequential. When they invest, they ignore 12 percent or 15 percent or 18 percent returns. They start to take notice when they see potential for 10X returns. In this lingo, Jurvetson blasted through college at nearly 2X the normal rate, and made partner at 6X speed.
Now he's accelerating -- straight into what could be a precarious stretch of road. Only 32, Jurvetson is in for the summer of his life, with no fewer than 11 of the Internet-related companies he has backed (Wit Capital, Goto.com, Tumbleweed and Netzero among them) at various points along the road to an initial public offering. The brand name he has built for himself with investments in a couple of other successful Internet start-ups -- his firm's specialty and the hottest destination for venture capital -- will be put to the test.
That's because the market's taste for Internet stocks appears to have soured: bellwethers are way off their peaks and new issues are coming out of the box more cautiously. Dave Marquart, a Silicon Valley veteran who was the only venture investor in Microsoft and the co-lead investor of Sun Microsystems, warns: "To be a bona fide venture capitalist, you have to go through a complete cycle. Those who've entered the business since the mid-90's have never seen a down cycle. Everything has been to the right and up -- very up."
To understand why Jurvetson is a folk hero for so many of those looking to convert their dreams and visions into Net wealth, consider what happened in February 1996. Sabeer Bhatia was an immigrant from India with zero experience running a company, zero experience in consumer products and zero experience in software. (He had been a hardware engineer at Apple.) He was Jurvetson's age less two years, or J - 2.
Bhatia had already been turned down by 21 other venture capital firms. He had produced no prototype, not even a graphic printed on a piece of paper. What he did have was what Jurvetson called "hallucinogenic optimism" and one intriguing idea, which he sketched out on a conference room white board. Jurvetson invested $300,000 to buy 15 percent of the project. Less than two years later, the company that emerged from that meeting, Hotmail, was sold to Microsoft for $400 million. Jurvetson became an instant legend, the guy every young entrepreneur wants to meet, even if it means paying 250X the cost of breakfast at Buck's.
Increasingly, successful venture capital firms are sheltering themselves from the hail of unsolicited business plans by invoking the Inverse Rule of Referrals: all good ideas come by referral, so if it didn't come by referral it must not be a good idea. Here's how a typical venture firm might catalogue the incoming slough: administrative staff scans the first paragraph of the cover letter for a referral by a "trusted third party," which is entered in a database. Partners scan the database; they'll look at the plan only if they trust the referral. "It makes being a venture capitalist 90 percent simpler," Jurvetson comments.
Draper, Fisher, Jurvetson has cultivated a reputation for ignoring that rule. The firm is located in Seaport, a sailing harbor in Redwood City -- psychologically far from V.C. ground zero, Sand Hill Road (but close enough to zip there in 10 minutes for a meeting). The problem with referral networks, as D.F.J. sees it, is that as the venture capitalists age, so does their referral network, cutting them off from the original thinkers. They say they read every one of the 5,000 plans sent to them each year. Theirs was the first venture capital firm to run an advertisement.
D.F.J. is a "seed" firm, meaning it gets in on the first round of financing for nascent businesses. "Getting companies started is the hardest part," says Tim Draper, the firm's founder, "and it's the most rewarding -- both financially and personally." To Jurvetson, it's even more rewarding than being an entrepreneur. "I get bits and pieces of several success stories, sort of a highlight reel," he says.
Jurvetson has succeeded so far by making himself accessible to the kind of young people who he figures come up with unusual ideas -- as opposed to what the industry calls "Me, Too" product. One recent month's "Me, Too" was on-line gift registries. He saw 30 business plans on that concept. The month before, it was Web-calendar companies. He saw three Web-calendar plans out of Sun Microsystems' employees alone. Having lunch in San Francisco one day, he bumped into an old friend who said he had left Netscape to found his dream start-up; without much tact, Jurvetson jokingly blurted out, "I hope it's not another Web-calendar company!" His friend's face fell. They always think they're the only ones with the idea.
"Truly original thinkers tend not to be entrepreneurs who've spent 10 years at Cisco and can be trusted to know what they're doing," Jurvetson explains. "They tend to be 26 years old and highflying. They often have a very childlike mind, with some navete. We're impressed by people who don't know what can't be done."
Just as the wild success of venture capital firms has made them magnets for business plans, it has made them extremely popular with fund investors (which tend to be pension plans, university endowments and insurance companies). At a typical V.C. firm, money under active management has gone up 40X; the number of partners to manage that money has gone up only 4X. It's now common to raise $350 million to $500 million every couple of years. When Draper Fisher Jurvetson mailed out prospectuses for its most recent fund, the firm received 3X the pledges it needed. The partners drew the line at $180 million -- but even that is a huge sum to deploy among early-stage firms, and easily the biggest fund D.F.J. had ever raised.
V.C. firms have a fat incentive to raise more and more money, because they get paid in two ways. First, when investors in a specific fund are paid back after a set period of time has elapsed (typically 10 years), the venture firm keeps 20 percent of all the profits. Second is the gravy train: a 2.5 percent annual management fee paid by investors, regardless of performance.
To deal with all the incoming money, most firms are ratcheting up the size of investments, especially on secondary rounds, when a company that has survived the seed stage needs large cash infusions. That means sticking with start-ups that have a high likelihood of growing not just big but gargantuan, with billions of dollars in annual sales. The Amazon of pharmacies, the Amazon of insurance, the Amazon of auto parts -- consumer markets so big that even a small slice of them guarantees a stellar payoff. They're not really start-ups, they're bulk-ups. They put on weight fast and flex their muscles and try to scare competitors off the beach.
But as Jurvetson sees it, something has been forgotten in this process. Sure, it's cool to make so much money. And sure, it's cool to be able to buy hair dye and condoms from the privacy of home. But on-line superstores aren't creating new markets, and though they might evolve the technology of E-commerce, they're not revolutionizing it. They're just big Web sites. Where's the adventure in that kind of venture?
Seed investing requires a special kind of hunger. Jurvetson's parents were immigrants from Estonia, and he was reared in Dallas by the creed that what he was to make of his life was entirely up to him; there were no entitlements. In an undergraduate psychology class, he answered a series of Enneagram questions meant to divine his character type. He so fit the description of a Type 3, the Performer (as in star performer), that he was asked back in following semesters to lecture about the traits of Type 3's: tremendous need for achievement, with an inner drive to do something beyond the ordinary.
That drive is why he belongs dead center in the creation zone of the new economy: where there's constantly a new goal to keep him from getting bored, and where he has all of Silicon Valley as an audience to perform for. He seems very similar in character to the headstrong young entrepreneurs he deals with, and perhaps that is partly why they mind-meld with him so well.
At no time was this more clear than the day he drove across the Dunbarton Bridge to meet Joe Chen, the C.E.O. of a very new start-up, See U There.com. Chen had 12 employees working in the living and dining rooms of his Union City home. Jurvetson admits he's a sucker for this kind of raw fertile atmosphere, and he grooved on it for a while that day, talking to the employees and soaking up their ambitious energy.
The whole point of money is that it's transferable legal tender, that it retains its value no matter who possesses it -- your million dollars is just as valuable as my million dollars. With venture capital, that's not always the case. Chen already had two other venture firms ready to give him the million dollars he needed. "Literally, they are screaming at us, asking when we are going to close the deal," Chen explained as we sat down at his conference table in the garage. But he would rather have Steve Jurvetson's million dollars. His pitch: a plan to build an Internet site to capture the largely untapped $60 billion market for event planning. Jurvetson seemed inclined to invest (and two days later, did).
Chen is J + 1 years old. He wanted Jurvetson's technical fluency, but also a certain kind of cultural chemistry -- the difference between working with someone who is just like your father and working with someone who is just like you. As Chen puts it, "He's not some stiff suit walking in here."
"The hotmail story reached us even in Singapore," says Eng-Siong Tan, the C.E.O. of a start-up called Third Voice. Tan is J + 4 years old. "It resonated and became part of the folklore of the valley that he was willing to invest where 21 other firms had passed. We knew Steve would be someone who gets our idea."
Tan and eight other Singaporean engineers uprooted and came here cold. They crammed into a cement-block storage warehouse in Foster City, their front door an aluminum roll-up gate. In November, Tan pitched Jurvetson. Third Voice would make software that allows users to post comments, viewable only by other users, directly onto the front page of any Web site. It's the Web equivalent of empowering people to spray-paint the State Capital. Jurvetson got it: this could do to on-line chat what Ebay did to classified ads.
Today, Tan has come by to discuss some new hires, of which there will be many in the next month. Internet companies are like Bazooka bubble gum. It takes a lot of chewing and manipulation -- a tremendous amount of effort -- to get the first bubble started. Then, with the slightest additional effort, a mere exhale, it expands 100X. For a while it's customary to double in size every month. That's what Tan is about to go through. He's ready to exhale.
We meet with one candidate for vice president for business development, Leo Jolicoeur, who brings experience from a couple of the more prominent corporations in the valley. He has five other job offers already on the table. As V.P. for business development, he would be responsible for partnering Third Voice with major tech companies. He wants to know how Jurvetson might help.
"O.K.," Jurvetson says, "let's run down the list real fast. Yahoo? I live on the same street as founder Jerry Yang and we walk our dogs in the morning. Excite? The C .E .O., George Bell, is a college buddy of our partner John Fisher. AOL? We sold them two companies last year. Microsoft? We sold them Hotmail. That's just external. Then we have our internal portfolio of 50 Internet companies. I can think of several right off the bat to partner with."
"All right, I get the picture," Jolicoeur says.
Later, Tan wants Jurvetson to help recruit an engineering student from Stanford. "It's going to be very tough," he says. "He already has a job offer from Drugstore.com and he's leaning toward taking it. You'll go up against Doerr." Drugstore.com is financed by the firm of the legendary venture capitalist John Doerr. The day before this meeting, it had been widely reported that Amazon.com had bought 40 percent of Drugstore.com. The company looked to be a grand slam.
"That's no problem," Jurvetson says. "Drugstore.com is a 'Me, Too' product. It's got six or seven competitors, and it's not even first mover -- that was Planet Rx. Besides, what's cool about selling pharmaceutical supplies? We'll see what kind of person this recruit is. I'll just ask him: does he want to sell Preparation H, or does he want to launch a new product category that will alter the balance of power in the world?"
The recruit signed with Third Voice.
The first of Jurvetson's 11 I.P.O.-bound companies -- Wit Capital, an Internet investment bank -- went public earlier this month, right on the heals of a disastrous week for Internet stocks. In late May, Juno Online and Ziplink not only failed to post triple-digit first-day returns, they both dropped below the offering price. Two other I.P.O.'s were postponed.
Suddenly the center of the Internet boom seemed to a lot of people like a scary place to be. But Wit went out and and finished its first day up 85 percent -- a figure that would have been a disappointment just months before, but now looked strong. And Jurvetson sounded as chipper as ever. Yes, some of the insane pops of early 1999 probably won't be back, but Jurvetson says that only means offerings are being priced more fairly and supply and demand are synching up. But the Internet is the economy, he insists; businesses that still think it's just a fad are in denial.
"We've seen I.P.O. windows open and close," he says. "The fact that some I.P.O.'s -- other people's I.P.O.'s -- haven't done well doesn't really matter to us. The businesses that we're backing . . . they're really good businesses, and it's not like they're going to shut down without a huge cash infusion from the public markets. Wit Capital -- they're just closing business left and right.
"It takes a really dramatic sea change for a venture capitalist to revisit whether a sector is a good idea, and we just haven't seen that," he continued. "We're actively investing like crazy. We've done more deals in the last three months than we did in the previous six -- with no eye whatsoever to the public markets, because we're thinking about the public markets two or three years out."
Of his I.P.O.-bound companies, only one is considering putting off its public offering by a quarter, he adds, and there is nothing in his voice to suggest fear or unease about the future. That's what the Type 3 description doesn't capture: This is a guy having time of his life. The default setting on his face is a birthday-boy smile. And why not? "I get to have the Steve Jobses of the next century come to me and make their pitch. I can't define a better recreation activity, let alone a job, that would be better than that."
Mark Hernandez, the winner of the Breakfast at Buck's auction, is J - 3 years old. He shows up at Buck's wearing a navy blazer, khakis, tortoise-shell Clark Kent glasses and his Stanford class ring. He resigned from his position as director of Merrill Lynch's Latin American derivatives desk four days ago to pursue a new life, though it's not clear just yet what that life will entail. Their conversation swells and fades, never coming to a head with the Pitch. Hernandez has a lot to choose from. Since winning the auction, he has been besieged by other Manhattan entrepreneurs offering finder's fees for connecting them with Jurvetson. On top of that, he has invested his own money into four start-ups, and he obligingly runs down the list, getting strategic feedback.
Not until the plates are cleared does he get around to his dream project: he's going to raise $5 million from cash-rich friends on Wall Street and pair it with a special $15 million loan into a highly leveraged kitty called Transformation Capital. It's a seed fund!
He'll be looking for 20 start-ups to invest in.
Mark Hernandez doesn't want to be the Steve Jobs of the next century. He wants to be the Steve Jurvetson of lower Manhattan.
"Ever since I read that Hotmail story," he says, "I wanted to get in touch with you."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: For about a thousand dollars a pancake, Mark Hernandez, right, won a breakfast with Jurvetson to pitch his idea. (Photographs by Cheryl Himmelstein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DRAPER FISHER (VENTURE FIRM) BAIN & CO (64%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: DRAPER FISHER (VENTURE FIRM)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STOCKS AND BONDS; VENTURE CAPITAL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION VENTURE CAPITAL (92%); AUCTIONS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (68%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (62%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); BONDS (60%); 

PERSON: BRONSON, PO; JURVETSON, STEVE; JURVETSON, STEVE (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) STEVE JURVETSON (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



397 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 44; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3185 words

HEADLINE: A Perfect Madness of Plants

BYLINE: By Verlyn Klinkenborg; Verlyn Klinkenborg writes editorials for The New York Times. He is the author of "Making Hay" and "The Last Fine Time."

 BODY:
The architecture of Dan Hinkley's garden on the Kitsap Peninsula in Washington State is native, shaped by old Douglas firs and a seeping bog. But in the cultivated understory, he has convened plants from all around the globe, reuniting the tribes of the botanical diaspora. More than 50 kinds of arisaemas -- called jack-in-the-pulpit in North America -- rocket from the soil, and one, Arisaema nepenthoides, stands fully erect, a single cobralike spathe beside a rotting stump crowned with ferns. Thirty-five varieties of Solomon's seals, or polygonatums, from China, Japan, Taiwan, Nepal and Sikkim unspiral from their early growth, and dozens of types of hellebore have just passed their prime. Throughout the garden, hydrangeas and viburnums are beginning to dispense their leaves; Stachyurus and Edgeworthia, winter-flowering shrubs from Asia, are leafing out. On some loops of the garden trail, where a Cardiocrinum giganteum thrusts its antediluvian seedpod six feet into the air, you almost expect to see a dinosaur wander past. Bud-break has stirred among an orderly chaos of growth-forms.
The man behind this collection of plants is Daniel Hinkley, a 45-year-old native of northern Michigan who has come to be regarded as one of the pre-eminent plant explorers in the world. Hinkley is the co-owner and chief plantsman of Heronswood Nursery, started in 1987, which lies within the visual domain of the Olympic Mountains across Puget Sound from Seattle. Heronswood is Hinkley's personal garden, his trial garden and a two-and-a-half-acre commercial nursery rolled in one. It's also Hinkley's home, which he shares with his partner, Robert Jones, an architect who is to the mailing list, the account books and the commercial operations at Heronswood what Hinkley is to the plants. 
 Here are more than 9,500 plants sprung from seed gathered all over the world. Most are numbered and listed in a loose-leaf binder that Hinkley calls the Big Bang, a compilation of plants already for sale and those that someday will be. The binder listing current inventory is called the Grand Mal. To most gardeners, the plants on these lists would be unfamiliar. Instead of the classic Hosta "Frances Williams," for instance, there is Hosta kiyosumiensis, which Hinkley collected from Mount Kiyosume in Japan's Chiba Prefecture in 1995. Instead of hybridized Asiatic and Oriental lilies, there is Lilium nanum, collected by Hinkley during a joint expedition to the Himalayas in 1995. Instead of a Norway maple or a David Austin rose, there is Acer rufinerve, a striped-bark maple he gathered in central Japan in 1997, and a rose of as yet undetermined species collected from an altitude of 10,800 feet in China's Yunnan province in 1996.
From this garden each year also comes the Heronswood catalogue, a major literary artifact in the world of gardening ephemera. Printed solidly in small type, it begins with Hinkley's wry musings on the imperfect art of running a mail-order nursery and ends 300 pages and some 2,500 plants later. The catalogue is a saga of botanical excitement and a chronicle of adjectival fatigue, the fate of a man driven to travel the world searching for remarkable plants and then doomed to write a terse, descriptive paragraph about one $6 or $8 clone after another, beginning with Abies balsamea "Nana" in the "Conifers" section and ending with the New Zealand sedge Uncinia unciniata, the final plant in the section on grasses.
Though it advertises nowhere and admits visitors only by appointment, Heronswood Nursery mailed 35,000 copies of the 1999 catalogue, and subscription requests are currently arriving at the rate of 100 a week. At $8 for a two-year subscription, the catalogue just pays for itself, unless you count the cost of Hinkley's writing time, in which case it is grossly underpriced. Subscribers pleasantly lost among Hinkley's paragraphs can be forgiven for wondering whether the nursery exists to justify the catalogue, or vice versa. Still, appealing to a newly adventurous generation of gardeners, Heronswood was an almost instant success. In 1993, the year after it incorporated, it had a gross income of $220,000. In 1998, it was five times larger, $1,100,000. These days, as Robert Jones says, he and Hinkley are trying to choose their limits, trying to let Hinkley's interests, rather than mere economic growth, continue to shape their offerings.
Plant introduction has traditionally been one of the reasons public agencies, public gardens and university arboretums -- like the United States Department of Agriculture, the New York Botanical Garden and the Arnold Arboretum at Harvard University -- have mounted collecting expeditions. But such institutions, as even they sometimes admit, usually do a far better job of collecting and studying plants than they do releasing them to the public. There is a historic rivalry between the public gardens and commercial nurseries like Heronswood, which dates to well before the days when the legendary plant hunter Ernest Henry Wilson combed turn-of-the-century China first for Veitch's nursery and then for the Arnold Arboretum. It's a rivalry, as the academics would put it, between science and mere trade or, as the tradesmen might put it, between exclusivity and openness. But these days, in fact, many public gardens and arboretums buy directly from Hinkley, sometimes taking a share in his plant-collecting expeditions, which entitles them to a portion of the seeds Hinkley gathers. "They're some of my best customers," he says.
Mid-April is the peak of the spring plant-shipping season at Heronswood, where overworked staff members try to meet the florid expectations of gardeners by selling them plants that are not only garden-worthy but that also carry, for many customers, an echo of the exotic places where Hinkley has collected -- Nepal, Sikkim, China, Japan, Korea, Tasmania, Mexico and Chile. The nursery office, an attractive prairie farmhouse of sorts, is surrounded by open shade-canopies sheltering tables crowded with flats, each marked with a customer's name and shipping date.
Hinkley's Michigan drawl crackles over a walkie-talkie clipped to a plant-packer's belt. Concealed somewhere in the woodland garden, he is the ghost in this botanic machine, enjoying a 10-day respite from a busy spring speaking schedule and preparing for a collecting trip to Japan. A path leads into the benign enveloping shade characteristic of the Northwest woods. The light falling on the mounded garden beds seems detached from its source, and what it illuminates has a freshness that is an attribute of the early season and of the vegetation itself. A hundred yards down the path, Hinkley works in mottled shade helping a new crew member shovel steer manure from a garden cart onto a planting site. No matter how exotic his expeditions may be, this is the end point of every collecting trip -- making a hole in the ground, sprinkling a little 20-20-20 fertilizer in it and grubbing the earth back into place by hand around the stem of a newly propagated plant.
Hinkley speaks quietly, slowly, but there is a sense of haste about him, the result of living in what he calls "a perfect madness of plants," a garden that needs to be brought into peak condition within the next few weeks. "At this point it feels like it's moving day," he says. "But as long as I keep bringing new plants into trial, it's always going to be like this. I get tired of one plant, or it's just not doing for me, so I get rid of it and start over again. But every time you do that you want to rejuvenate the soil, and to do that you've got to move another plant." Hinkley kneels on the ground, chopping at the soil with a border spade and looking up from time to time as he talks. He is direct and delicate at the same time, handling plants with none of the hesitation of the amateur gardener. He overflows with affection for the garden he has made, and yet his criticism of each individual plant-form -- a kind of veiled self-criticism in fact -- is unsparing.
Hinkley is bearded and balding, and he wears wide suspenders over a T-shirt from the J.C. Raulston Arboretum at North Carolina State University. Raulston, who died at 56 in a car accident three years ago, was one of Hinkley's mentors and a widely respected emblem of intellectual and horticultural generosity. Hinkley has dedicated his next book, "The Explorer's Garden," which Timber Press will publish in the fall, to Raulston and to Gerald Straley of the University of British Columbia, another gardening mentor who died in his 50's. "J.C.'s everywhere in this garden," Hinkley said. "Every day, I could take out a plant that he gave me, and I would never run out of plants. He knew, he sensed what a good plant was."
To sense what a good plant is -- to recognize it in the wild and then confirm it in his own garden -- is the essence of Hinkley's work. At Heronswood, there are really three different kinds of garden and, hence, of garden-worthiness. Among the greenhouses, for instance, there is the denatured, rationalized garden, which consists of plants grouped by size and species -- garden-worthy, in Hinkley's judgment, but also able to withstand shipping. In the woodland garden, tested and marketed varieties of plants compete with untested kin. The search here is for better form, greater hardiness, a distinctive virtue -- variegation or a more upright or prostrate habit -- or simply for the illumination, vital to Hinkley's task, that comes from growing many related species in proximity to each other. "For me," Hinkley says, "it makes a more complete, more understandable portrait of plants if I get the opportunity to grow many different relatives together."
And then there is the private garden surrounding the house, which is set at the back of the property. This is a place where Hinkley has tried to set aside at least some of the cultural limitations that frame our sense of what makes a garden. It is a subject he understands very well. "We have all this Lutheran guilt," he says. "We all moved west from the Midwest where we couldn't have winter gardens, and so our gardens in Seattle and Portland and Vancouver are amazingly timid as far as what our climate can actually do." But there is no timidity in this garden. What takes it beyond timidity isn't massed plantings or vibrant color or expansive scale or even mere exoticism. It is Hinkley's subtle reliance on the globally diverse forms of individual plants. Each plant, grown well, reveals itself and reveals something, too, about its neighbor. What creeps grows next to what climbs. The fastigiate and the pendulous conspire. Bark peels, thorns protrude, vines finger their way across an arbor, and what unites it all, what makes these plants garden-worthy, is the interest they bestow upon each other.
There are few explicit canons for deciding what makes a plant garden-worthy, but one of them -- a base line below the realm of the esthetic -- is lack of ecological invasiveness. Most gardeners are familiar with species that tend to be invasive in the garden, like Ajuga reptans, sometimes called carpet bugle. But what haunts Hinkley is the thought of plants that can break loose from cultivation and run rampant across the landscape -- purple loosestrife, kudzu, tamarisk, honeysuckle. "My greatest concern," he says, "is the introduction of a bad plant."
To help prevent that, Hinkley has hired Sarah Reichard as a consultant. Reichard, an ecologist at the University of Washington's Center for Urban Horticulture and a founder of Washington's Native Plant Society, began to wonder while collecting seed in South America as a graduate student whether any of those plants would prove invasive in the Pacific Northwest. She has constructed a model -- a decision tree, based on a plant's observed characteristics, which asks questions about how quickly the species reproduces and whether it belongs to a family or genus already strongly invasive in North America -- that indicates whether a plant is likely to become invasive.
On the burn pile at Heronswood lay one of the results of Reichard's work. There, atop other horticultural debris, was Ligustrum delavayanum, a species of privet named after the French priest and botanist Jean Marie Delavay, who collected plants in China in the late 19th century. This ligustrum bore fruit in Hinkley's garden for the first time in October, and it caught the attention of Roy Lancaster, the English dean of plant explorers, who was visiting Heronswood at the time. "He said he'd never seen a more beautiful form of it," Hinkley told me. "But it's a broad-leafed evergreen, and those do really well in the Northwest. I looked at it all winter long and battled with it in my conscience. You've probably seen what Ligustrum sinense has done in the Southeast. It's everywhere. Finally we had Sarah run it through her model, and she said, Reject."
Invasiveness is a hot issue, and it inspires a botanical xenophobia, a fear that just because a plant is exotic -- i.e., non-native -- it's inevitably invasive or otherwise harmful to the suite of native plants, changing the balance of nitrogen in the soil, for instance, or causing the water table to dip below the roots of native plants. But in horticulture, as in agriculture, the distinction between exotic and native has been blurred by the ancient, extensive exchange of plants for their economic or ornamental value. Because plant material -- seeds, cuttings, fruits -- moves as readily as humans do, human plant collecting, like the invention of agriculture, predates history itself. Gardening may be a way of enclosing a distinctive botanical world -- separating the cultivated from the uncultivated -- but few gardeners have ever restricted themselves to growing only native plants. The literature of gardening is underwritten by the literature of plant trafficking -- Robert Fortune, Joseph Hooker, Joseph Banks, Armand David, Ernest Henry Wilson and a host of predecessors traversed temperate Asia searching for plants of botanical and horticultural interest. Their motto, and Hinkley's as well, might be the words of William Bartram, who explored America in the late 18th century, when it was still the gardening world's China. "Let us advance to the spot in which nature has seated them," Bartram wrote of the plants he sought.
If there's an ecological argument to be made against plant collecting, there are many to be made for it. The term itself is a misnomer. Hinkley does not collect plants. As he notes in the Heronswood catalogue, "Our wild collections are primarily of seed, which we collect in a very conservative manner." This means collecting only when there is abundant seed, adhering to the terms of local permits and customs and making sure the seed is carefully prepared to meet U.S.D.A. restrictions (free of any potentially contaminating soil, insects and so on). The image of ship decks full of Wardian cases -- the enclosed, portable greenhouses that made the 19th-century boom in plant hunting possible -- has been replaced by the image of tired botanists cleaning seeds for U.S.D.A. inspection under less-than-ideal conditions. "It isn't necessarily a fun thing to do," Hinkley says, remembering a trip to Nepal, "especially when you're doing it in a tent at night and it's raining cats and dogs outside and the only light is a headlamp."
Gathering seed from wild plant populations is also a means of preserving genetic diversity in the face of widespread environmental degradation. In Nepal, for instance, a grazing yak-cow hybrid, the dzo, has had a grave impact on alpine plant communities. In China, deforestation is proceeding at a rate that far outstrips the ability of Chinese and foreign botanists to inventory and collect seeds from endangered plants. Even in a gardening culture as traditional as Japan's, there's a tendency to overlook native species in favor of the exotic -- which in the case of Japan means American species. After searching Shikoku Island in 1997 for a wild Japanese hydrangea called Hydrangea sikokiana, Hinkley began scouting Japanese nurseries, hoping to find the plant in cultivation. "We thought we'd see it from a distance in every single nursery, and we'd go up to it and it was our native Hydrangea quercifolia. No one we talked to had even heard of sikokiana. They had no interest in growing it because they had this very exotic, much, much more exciting hydrangea from America." The exotic sikokiana is now growing at Heronswood, not far up the woodland path from the native quercifolia.
But the ultimate rationale for Hinkley's work is the garden itself. He shapes his expeditions by looking for climates similar to that of the Pacific Northwest, traveling to places where plants show similar hardiness because of elevation or latitude, and are accustomed to similar rainfall patterns. Sometimes a collecting trip broadens the gene pool for a plant that has already been collected, like Paris polyphylla, a Nepalese trillium relative Hinkley had grown at Heronswood for a decade but was the only clone in North America. Often a trip leads to a new understanding of how, as Hinkley puts it, a plant "wants" to grow. It can also be a means of expanding the idea of the garden philosophically and esthetically by allowing Hinkley to see cultivated species and their wild near kin in their native habitat. Perhaps, Hinkley says, re-collecting seed "will bring additional hardiness or additional insect or disease resistance, so I never pass up a plant if it's in seed, if indeed I think it's a plant that deserves to be in cultivation."
Hinkley's garden feels like a glimpse of another creation, a place where the monoculture of the mind is disturbed by a willingness to push beyond the familiar botanical forms into a realm of pleasing visual discomfort. Walking along the woodland trails at Heronswood, Hinkley points out some of the plants he admires -- like Podophyllum delavayi, a May apple from Sichuan, which, he says, "deserves to be worshiped" -- and some of the plants he thinks will become important to American gardeners in the years ahead, not only among "plant nerds," as he puts it, but also among gardeners generally. He points out a group called the woodland lilies -- Smilacinas, Polygonatums, Uvularias, Disporums and Disporopsis.
But above all he points out Hepatica -- Hepatica acutiloba, an American native and Hepatica maxima, which grows only on one island in the Japan Sea, Hepatica in a single clone, in many clones, in enough clones one day to sell. To a casual visitor, these are perplexing plants, modest, growing in low mounds with rather formal, old-fashioned leaves and small flowers, not half as striking as the arisaemas and trilliums that are rioting in the woodland. But besides being a "simply good" plant, Hepatica maxima, for one, is also very rare in cultivation, which makes its goodness no longer simple. It goes about its business in a quiet corner of the garden, reaffirming a strange premise of life itself, for being there at all is part of its beauty.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arisaema griffithii. Origin: Nepal. A trifoliolate species with deep corrugated leaves, often with a bizarre green metallic sheen.; Paris polyphylla. Origin: Western China, Nepal. Flowers of broad green sepals and threadlike golden petals sit atop whorls of narrow leaves.; Cardiocrinum giganteum. Origin: The Himalayas. After seven years, stems tower to 15 feet, topped by fragrant 10-inch lilies.; Podophyllum delavayi. Origin: western China. An Asiatic May apple with deep purple mottling on a velvety leaf blade up to 15 inches across.; Helwingia japonica. Origin: Japan, China. flowers on female specimens can result in large black fruits that sit curiously upon the leaf surface in late summer.; Meconopsis betonicifolia.Origin: Tibet and western China. A species of blue poppy, its crinkled violet petals unfold in spring to reveal an unearthly, intense color.; Cypripedium tibeticum. Origin: Yunnan and Sichuan provinces. Sepals are green-yellow streaked and dotted maroon and conspicuously veined.; Stachyurus praecox. Origin: Japan. An aristocratic, winter-flowering shrub little known in cultivation, with arching canes 12 feet or taller and drooping flowers.; Daniel Hinkley, one of the world's pre-eminent plant explorers, at his carefully cultivated gardens at Heronswood Nursery on Puget Sound. (Andrew Song)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); NEPAL (93%); NORTH AMERICA (91%); TIBET (79%); TAIWAN (79%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (77%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); HIMALAYAS (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KANTO, JAPAN (79%); SIKKIM, INDIA (79%); YUNNAN, CHINA (72%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%); SICHUAN, CHINA (57%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HERONSWOOD NURSERY

ORGANIZATION: HERONSWOOD NURSERY

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); NEPAL (93%); NORTH AMERICA (91%); TIBET (79%); TAIWAN (79%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (77%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); HIMALAYAS (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KANTO, JAPAN (79%); SIKKIM, INDIA (79%); YUNNAN, CHINA (72%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%); SICHUAN, CHINA (57%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GARDENS AND GARDENING; CATALOGUES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION GARDENING (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); FLORICULTURE PRODUCTION (78%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (77%); 

PERSON: HINKLEY, DANIEL; KLINKENBORG, VERLYN DANIEL HINKLEY (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



398 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes /The Gardiner-Tyler House, West New Brighton, Staten Island;
Where a President's Widow Backed the Confederacy

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
DURING the Civil War, the elegant Greek revival Gardiner-Tyler House, in West New Brighton, Staten Island, sheltered one of New York's most conspicuous rebel sympathizers, Julia Gardiner Tyler, widow of President John Tyler. When she was not involved in pro-Confederate activities, she was busy trying to reunite her family, scattered by the war. Now another family is reuniting in this grand temple-fronted house, as a new addition brings together three generations under one roof.
 Now on a small plot surrounded by modest houses, the Gardiner-Tyler house was built around 1837 as a much larger country estate, apparently by an Eliza Racey, about whom little is known.
The main entrance -- under the temple front -- faces south across a wide valley, and the house is of simple plan, with a front to back center hall. 
 The precisely carved Corinthian capitals on the four double-height columns seem more sophisticated than the heavy scrolled brackets that connect the portico to the house, but it is difficult to tell if they are later alterations -- the earliest good photographs of the house are from the turn of the century.
Early occupancy of the house is sketchy, but Robert Seager's 1963 book, "And Tyler Too," says that, according to Gardiner and Tyler family correspondence, Juliana Gardiner, Julia Gardiner Tyler's mother, bought the house in 1852.
 Juliana Gardiner was the widow of David Gardiner -- a member of the Long Island family that owned Gardiner's Island. Gardiner had died in February 1844 after a cannon exploded during testing on a ship in the Potomac River. President Tyler had also been aboard.
Already friendly with the Gardiner family, Tyler became even more friendly with Julia and married her in New York City in June 1844.
Tyler had been elected Vice President in 1840 under William Henry Harrison and became President in April 1841 when Harrison died after only a month in office. Weakened in a dispute over tariff bills with his own Whig Party, Tyler withdrew from the 1844 presidential election.
 The Tylers lived at their James River estate, Sherwood Forest, in Virginia. After 1852, Juliana Gardiner lived in the Staten Island house, called Castleton Hill. Tyler was generally identified with pro-slavery, pro-Southern policies -- he had about 70 slaves at Sherwood Forest.
In 1853 The New York Herald and other papers carried an article by Julia Tyler defending slavery, which aroused much comment. She said that the Southern slave "lives sumptuously" compared to workers in modern industrial economies. She was also an intimate of Jefferson Davis and his wife, Varina.
 AT least as early as 1857 Julia and John Tyler visited Juliana Gardiner at Staten Island, and when the former President died in 1862, Julia crossed Civil War battle lines to live at the Staten Island estate, despite her own Southern sympathies.
On Staten Island, Julia Tyler worked for the release of Southern prisoners, for the relief of occupied Southern cities and for various peace efforts.
 Julia Tyler went back and forth to her Virginia estate with a regularity that Northern patriots found suspicious. Her Southern sympathies brought conflict to the house, where she often violently quarreled with her uncle, David Lyon Gardiner, who was finally sent away by Juliana Gardiner, his sister.
During this time Julia Tyler was also trying to keep up Sherwood Forest, look after other children in the family, and come up with a way to live in the safety of her mother's house while safeguarding her teen-age sons, David and John, who were in military service -- on the Confederate side.
 In April 1865, just hours after Lincoln's assassination, three Staten Islanders forced their way into the house to retrieve and destroy what one claimed in a letter in The New York Herald was a Confederate flag, describing Julia Tyler as the "widow of the deceased rebel ex-President."
In a letter to The New York Mail, Julia Tyler denounced the "outrage committed at my house" and said the flag was only an ornamental bunting, without political significance.
 A June 1, 1865, census recorded Julia Tyler in the house with five of her children, as well as a tutor, an Irish-born coachman and two English-born servants. Juliana Gardiner died in 1868, and Julia got the Staten Island house after a venomous court fight with David Lyon Gardiner.
 Her lawyer in the litigation, William M. Evarts, was also a family friend and lent her money, taking the house as security. Julia Tyler left New York in 1871 for Washington and then Virginia, and later in the decade Evarts, who was also prominent in politics, took ownership of the house, although it is not clear if he lived there.
 IN the 1880's and 1890's the house was occupied by Douglas M. A. Brown, a wallpaper manufacturer, and in 1898 the land was divided into 157 building lots styled as "Tyler Park" in anticipation of a public auction to be accompanied by music and lunch. Included in the sale was to be the "fine house" occupied "by President Tyler," although it appears he was never more than an intermittent seasonal guest.
 After 1900 the house and most of the lots were purchased by Thaddeus J. Carlin; the 1920 census shows him in occupancy with an English servant and his 15-year-old son, Arthur. Arthur Carlin's granddaughter, Arlene Gillen McGinley, says that when her mother, Arlene Carlin, married Arthur Gillen, "the house was so large they asked the Gillens to move in with them."
The family gradually sold off the surrounding lots, and now the grand house is surrounded by low ranch houses, like Gulliver encircled by Lilliputians.
 Mrs. McGinley moved out herself when she married Terrance McGinley in 1977, but now that Mr. and Mrs. Gillen are aging, she and Mr. McGinley have purchased the Gardiner-Tyler house from them and are adding a side wing in complementary style, designed by the architect Timothy Boyland, working with the preservation consultant Mary Dierickx. Mrs. McGinley, her husband and their three children are planning to move in next month.
 The new wing will be accessible for people with disabilities, to make living there easier for her parents, and will also permit her older brother, Kevin, to visit more frequently -- he has multiple sclerosis and lives in a nursing home.
"When people hear I'm moving into that house they say, 'My gosh, that's a mansion,' " and then I have to tell them I grew up in it," Mrs. McGinley says. "I'm the fourth generation here, and my children, God willing, will live here in the future also."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Julia Gardiner Tyler, (Virginia State Library) crossed Civil War battle lines in 1862 to live in mother's Staten Island home. (Staten Island Institute of Arts & Sciences) A side wing is now being added. (Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND INSTITUTE OF ARTS & SCIENCES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATEN ISLAND INSTITUTE OF ARTS & SCIENCES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (US) (1861-65); HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; GARDINER-TYLER HOUSE (STATEN ISLAND, NY); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; HOUSING CIVIL WAR (90%); SLAVERY (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: TYLER, JULIA GARDINER; TYLER, JOHN (1747-1813); GRAY, CHRISTOPHER JULIA TYLER (92%); JULIA GARDINER TYLER (92%); JULIANA GARDINER (79%); JULIANA GARDINER JULIA GARDINER (72%); JOHN TYLER (59%); DAVID LYON GARDINER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



399 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 12; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3895 words

HEADLINE: Hopes and Fears of the Class of '99

 BODY:
In Westchester, the class of '99 has many faces. Here is what some of its members had to say when interviewed by Elsa Brenner.
 
Looking for a Role In Local Politics
 
WHO -- Jeremy Weinberg, 17, New Rochelle High School. 

ACHIEVEMENTS -- President of the school's chapter of the National Honor Society, member of high school's model congress, writer of poetry for the school literary publication Opus.
 
AFTER GRADUATION -- "I plan to enroll at Cornell University and major in policy analysis and management. I want to study government, economics and sociology with the goal of one day playing an active role in local politics."
 
THE BEST -- "The best part of high school was the kinship I developed with my classmates and, perhaps more important, my teachers. Shared interests and a collective desire to excel transformed many of my classrooms into settings that resembled a family home more than a place of learning. It was an amazing experience to learn and grow with a group of others."
 
THE WORST -- "The worst part of high school was having to see peers of mine who lacked the desire and motivation to care about what they were doing. It was difficult for me to accept that some people cannot be made to take pride in achieving in the classroom. I always hate to see people who have no passion for anything."
 
THE UNEXPECTED -- "What surprised me the most in my high school experience would probably have to be my school's reaction to the verdict in the O. J. Simpson trial. Many people expected that a school as ethnically diverse as New Rochelle High School would erupt at the climax of a racially charged event like that trial. However, there was a great amount of peace after the verdict was announced. It was quite a pleasant surprise."
 
WHAT IF? -- "If I could change anything about high schools, I would make them more of a partnership between faculty, students and parents. I think that the key to success is a desire to succeed. The only way to create that desire is to establish an environment where all three of these important links feel a sense of community and a shared goal of creating a higher level of education. If parents, teachers and students work together, each can feel as if they can influence the direction that their community's education system is moving. Involvement on the local level makes all the difference. In high schools around the country, I would like to see teachers making more of an effort to establish a relationship with students and their parents outside of school. A little time and a small amount of caring on the part of educators could improve schools across America."
 
GOOD ADVICE -- "The piece of advice that is freshest in my head at the moment is one given to me at my Senior Awards Ceremony by my advanced placement government teacher, Deborah Minchin. She said, 'Never confuse who you are with the awards you have won.' "
 
THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "The thing that excites me the most about the future is the chance I will have to run for public office and put my ideas into practice."

 THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "I am scared the most by the prospect of not being able to achieve the level of success of my father's generation. My generation has caught on to the prospect of the American Dream hook, line and sinker. We look at our parents and envy the innocent America in which they were raised. We like to think that our hard work will lead to success, but we fear that the wonderful opportunities our parents had will not be there when we grow older. I think that every generation would have the same fears at this age. However, my generation has seen our parents achieve a much greater level of financial success in America than their parents did. The bar has been raised for the children of the 90's and they fear that at some point the opportunities others had in the past will disappear in front of their faces."
 
LIFE AT 30 -- "I see my life at 30 being difficult but rewarding. As much as I fear that the American and global economies will not be as friendly to me as they were to my parents, I still believe that if you work hard enough, then opportunity will always come your way. At 30, I see myself working as hard as I am now to insure that opportunities will always be at my disposal."
 
Overcoming the past To Live the Present
 
WHO -- Luis Ortiz, 21, Southern Westchester Board of Cooperative Educational Services class at Rye Neck High school.
 
ACHIEVEMENTS -- Returned to complete his education after a shooting that left him in a wheelchair; winner of the Overcoming the Odds Award given by the Board of Cooperative Educational Services.

AFTER GRADUATION -- "I plan to go to United Cerebral Palsy to train with computers in order to get a paying job. I need training on a computer because that will be the main tool I will use when I start to work."
 
THE BEST -- "The best part of the Boces program was the fact that I had teachers who have helped me a lot. They really care about me and have helped me get the things I really needed."
 
THE WORST -- "The worst thing about school was in my old one in the Bronx. Kids would bring guns and other weapons to school. The school was more like a jail because of the metal detectors and guards in the building. They were needed in the school, but that made it feel like a prison."
 
THE UNEXPECTED -- "The biggest surprise I ever had during high school was when I received the Overcoming the Odds Award last month. It was such an honor and I was very surprised when I found out I was one of the winners. One of the prizes is going to be a laptop computer, which I really need."
 
WHAT IF? -- "If I could change one thing in all the high schools, I would bring in more computers for the students to use. Technology is changing the world, and all kids need to know how to use computers. I know it is the main thing I need to know."

GOOD ADVICE -- "The best advice anyone had ever given me is not to do drugs. Unfortunately, I didn't listen to my mother and now I am in a wheelchair. I got involved with a bad crowd and it has left me a quadriplegic."
 
THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "Right now I can't really think about the future. I have to concentrate on right now."
 
THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "The future scares me because I don't know what it will be like. I don't know how it will be for me. It really does scare me!"
 
LIFE AT 30 -- "I don't want to think about when I turn 30. I don't look that far ahead. I only think about right now."
 
A Pursuit of Dance and Choreography
 
WHO -- Elizabeth Anne Gill, 18, Yorktown High School.

ACHIEVEMENTS -- Student council member; choreographed and performed in "Fiddler on the the Roof" and "West Side Story," and a member of Students Against Drunk Driving.

AFTER GRADUATION -- "I will be attending the Alvin Ailey/Fordham University Bachelor of Fine Arts program in dance at Lincoln Center."

THE BEST AND WORST -- "The best and worst parts of high school have both come from watching me and my fellow students change in our most formative years. Growing as a person and watching my friends develop into people whom I greatly admire has been extremely satisfying. On the other hand, watching some old friends distance themselves and develop into strangers was one of the worst feelings in the world."

THE UNEXPECTED -- "Looking back at high school I was most surprised at how involved I became in the intricate workings of the school. When I first entered high school I was content to remain isolated in my studies and uninvolved in the various organizations. Over the years, I have realized that becoming a part of my high school and knowing that I will leave some bit of myself behind have become surprisingly important to me."

WHAT IF? -- "High schools need to examine the delicate relationships that can be built between teachers and students when there is a mutual sharing of knowledge. Unfortunately, many students are lost in school because they don't feel involved in their education. When students are given the opportunity to influence their teachers, just as teachers hope to influence students, then the students value the education they receive."

GOOD ADVICE -- " Some of the best advice that I have received came from my English teacher, Natalie Farina. She said to our class one day: 'Become observers of the world. Learn to really see what is happening around you and how it relates to the society around it.' I feel that this advice is especially poignant when applied to high school. Because high school students are just beginning to discover who they are, they sometimes try to project an image of how they'd like to be seen. I have found that in high school it is especially important to distinguish between the qualities you see on the surface and those that are true to someone's real self."
 
THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "I am both excited and scared about the responsibility that I will have in the future. Most of the time I can't wait to be in New York City, getting myself around and pursuing dance. However, I am also scared when I realize that only I will be able to push myself. This responsibility means that my successes and failures will be completely my own."
 
THE FUTURE, FEARS: -- "When my parents were preparing themselves for college, the Vietnam War was heating up and both feared the escalation of the war as well the possibility of losing their friends who might be sent over to fight. Since the present U.S. conflicts have not produced a draft, I have been lucky enough to live without extreme fear of war. My fears are more personal. I worry about not being a success in my own eyes. I worry about the rejection that comes with pursuing a career in such a competitive field as dance. My parents did not have the same career dreams when they were my age. I dream of being a respected dancer-choreographer."

LIFE AT 30 -- "I hope that when I am 30 years old, I will have already started establishing myself within the artistic community. I would like to have had substantial experience with dance companies by then and opportunities to display my own choreography."
 
The Goal: Opening own Florist Shop
 
WHO -- Danielle Arco, 18, Westlakes High School in Thornwood.
 
ACHIEVEMENTS -- Majored in horticulture through a program offered by the Southern Westchester Board of Cooperative Educational Services, receptionist in a veterinary hospital.

AFTER GRADUATION -- "My plans after high school are to get a job working with a florist and to train in that field so I can open up my own shop someday."

THE BEST -- "The best part of high school was the happy memories, the friendships and my boyfriend, Sal."

THE WORST -- "The worst part was seeing some friends come and go, and losing them."

THE UNEXPECTED -- "Looking back, the biggest surprise for me was how fast it all went by. You don't realize at the time how fast it will all be over."

WHAT IF? -- "If I could change one thing in high schools, it would be to make people set aside their differences and get along, and not belong to cliques where some people are left out because they don't dress a certain way. It didn't bother me personally so much, but I have seen many kids hurt because they weren't included."

GOOD ADVICE -- "The best advice I ever received was from my father, who always encouraged me to try new things and not to get down on myself. He helped me realize that I wanted to study horticulture and flowers."

THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "When I look ahead, the thing that excites me the most is the opportunity I will have to do things for myself, to be responsible for myself."

THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "What scares me is not knowing what to expect. Maybe it won't turn out the way I wish it will. Everyone always says that life is easy only when you're young."

LIFE AT 30 -- "Hopefully at 30, I will be happily married, have two children and own a flower shop."
 
A Lifelong Desire: Becoming a Lawyer
 
WHO -- Louise Kellie Beach, 18, Peekskill High School.
 
ACHIEVEMENTS -- Member of National Honor Society, student council president, intern in a law office.

AFTER GRADUATION -- "My post high school plans are to attend Hofstra University and major in English, minor in science and go on to law school, ultimately practicing law."

THE BEST -- "I enjoyed being involved in many of the extracurricular activities: National Honor Society, student council, community service, cheerleading, Black Culture Club."

THE WORST -- "The worst part of my high school years was the preparation and taking of the Scholastic Achievement Test."

THE UNEXPECTED -- "I was surprised to find that the work load was not as overwhelming as I had been told."
 
WHAT IF -- "I would change the scheduling process because not all, but many, students take classes just to simply get by and receive a passing grade. I feel that each student should be challenged with a rigorous schedule to prepare them for what college life offers, because after all, high school is a stepping stone leading to college."

GOOD ADVICE -- "The best advice I received was from my grandmother, who instilled in me from a very early age that there is nothing too hard for me and that obstacles are meant to be overcome."

THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "What excites me the most about the future is achieving my lifelong dream. From a young age I knew my desired career goal -- a corporate lawyer. To achieve this goal would be a dream come true not only for me but for my parents also."

THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "I would have to say that what scares me the most are the challenges associated with college life -- being in large classroom settings, getting along with a roommate and navigating my way around campus."

LIFE AT 30 -- "At the age of 30, I will be a successful corporate lawyer, married and raising a family."
 
For the Future, Being Happy is the Goal
 
WHO -- Andrew Goldberg, 18, Hastings-on-Hudson High School.
 
ACHIEVEMENTS -- Class valedictorian, National Merit scholar, student government participant, guitar player.

AFTER GRADUATION -- "I plan to study mathematics and computer science at Amherst College in Amherst, Mass."

THE BEST -- "Coming from a small high school, I'd say the best part of my high school experience was the close interaction between students and teachers. In a small school, there are so many opportunities available for everyone."
 
THE WORST -- "The worst part of high school was the occasional stress and worrying that accompanied all of my hard work. It was hard to balance everything all the time, and sometimes my self-imposed pressure was a little too strong."
 
THE UNEXPECTED -- "My biggest surprise looking back would have to be the fact that I was able to maintain my academic performance while being busy with several clubs and activities and many other obligations. I always tried to manage my time well to make sure this was possible."

WHAT IF -- "If I could change any one thing in high schools, I would make it possible for all students to have all the opportunities they desire. Some students attend public schools which lack money and many of the resources that are available to students in other areas of the country. All students should be able to explore and branch out in many directions so that they find their niche."

GOOD ADVICE -- "I can't think of specific advice that anyone has given me, but my parents have always taught me to work toward and try to surpass my potential."

THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "I am most excited about going to college this fall. After growing up in such a small village, my classmates and I know each other almost too well, and it will be a great opportunity to begin again in college with an empty canvas."
 
THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "What scares me the most about the future and college is not being able to form a close-knit group of friends like I have in high school now. I bet my dreams and fears are rather similar to those of my parents when they were my age because they are fairly natural feelings. The future can be intimidating, and to have worries is completely normal."
 
LIFE AT 30 -- "I don't really know what I'll be like when I'm 30. I could go through college and graduate school and wind up in a computer-related career, while I could also find new direction at college and end up somewhere totally different. Whatever I do, though, I would like to have a family and be happy when I'm 30. As long as you're happy, the rest doesn't really matter."
 
'I've Become a Role Model for Other Kids'
 
WHO -- Jerome Matthews, 18, Port Chester High School.
 
ACHIEVEMENTS -- Co-captain of the basketball team. (Said he "learned in high school to play a sport rather than let it play him.")

AFTER GRADUATION -- "I plan to attend Delhi Junior College in Delhi, N.Y."
 
THE BEST -- "The best part of high school was recovering from my downfalls and being in the wrong crowd. I've become a role model for other kids."

THE WORST -- "The worst part of high school was going through some obstacles. I was cutting classes and bringing myself down. I was failing my courses, and I was left out of sports for a while."

THE UNEXPECTED -- "The biggest surprise was turning myself around academically and otherwise and finally being able to graduate with my class. I live in a low-cost housing project in Port Chester, and Earl Johnson, another basketball player who lived in my building and now attends Rutgers, encouraged me to bring up my grades."
 
WHAT IF -- "If there was one thing I could change, it would be to set up a mentor system for kids. It's important for us to have someone to look up to."

GOOD ADVICE -- "The best advice I ever received was from my grandmother and mother, who sat me down and said: "Jerome, you have to play basketball. Don't let it play you. Don't forget your studies because you have to have something to fall back on."
 
THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "The thing that excites me most about the future is that I am one of the first people in my family who is going to college. A lot of the younger kids are looking up to me."
 
THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "What scares me is that I'll be three or four hours away from my family. What if there are problems?"
 
LIFE AT 30 -- "By the time I'm 30, I hope I am well educated and have an associate's degree, a bachelor's degree and a master's degree -- and a nice wife and two kids and a home like I did not have."
 
A Lesson Learned: 'Never Give Up'
 
WHO -- Christopher C. Ellis, 17, Archbishop Stepinac High School.

ACHIEVEMENTS -- Member of the track team, Salutatorian of graduating class, winner of the William Plunkett Award given annually to a student who has excelled academically, given exceptional service to the school and served as a role model of values.

AFTER GRADUATION -- "After caddying this summer at a golf club, I will attend Syracuse University to study communications and journalism."

THE BEST -- "The best part of high school and going from a small parochial school in Yonkers to a larger school was meeting a lot of new people, making new friends and learning from new teachers."

THE WORST -- "The worst part of high school was having to travel so far by train and bus from my home in Yonkers to White Plains."

THE UNEXPECTED -- "I was suprised at how different high school was from grammar school and how independent I was able to be."

WHAT IF -- "If I could change something in high schools, it would be to have more teachers get more involved with students. I would like to see students having more of a say in the classroom and more opportunities to interact. Classroom teaching should not be just about straight lectures."
 
GOOD ADVICE -- "The best advice I ever received was from my parents who told me never to give up, even when I hit slumps either in sports or with my school work."

THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "I am most excited about the new independence I will experience living at college, and the chance I'll have to focus in more on a particular subject like journalism."

THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "I am most uncertain about what the future holds -- both in college and the job market."

LIFE At 30 -- "I want to be successful -- to have a good job, even if I am not the highest paid person -- and to have a wife who is a good person. I want to live an honest, straight life and be happy. Some people see success as making millions of dollars or driving the best car, but I don't know if that necessarily makes someone emotionally happy. I want to be settled by 30 and not stressed out."
 
First Woman To Be President, Perhaps?
 
WHO -- Erika Zauner, 17, Hackley School, Tarrytown.

ACHIEVEMENTS -- Voted most valuable player for the varsity field hockey team, editor of The Vision, the school's literary magazine.

AFTER GRADUATION -- "Before attending Princeton University in the fall, I will work for part of the summer as a volunteer for a cardio-thoracic surgeon at Cornell Medical Center in New York City. I am also working as a waitress for several weeks in Spring Lake, N.J., and will attend field hockey camp for two weeks."

THE BEST -- "The highlight of high school was working with teachers and coaches who love what they are doing and inspire students to excel at and enjoy a subject or activity."

THE WORST -- "The worst part of high school was the cliques. Most kids are so insecure in high school and super-conscious of other people's perceptions of them, which fosters the formation of cliques."

THE UNEXPECTED -- "The biggest surprise for me in my private high school, as a student coming from public school, was the extraordinary commitment of so many teachers to a positive learning experience."
GOOD ADVICE -- "The best advice ever given to me was from my grandmother, who often says, 'If you enjoy the simple pleasures in life, you will always be a happy person.' This advice has helped me to appreciate little things every day, like an intimate conversation with my sister or the sunset on my drive home from school."

THE FUTURE, HOPES -- "What excites me most about the future are the many opportunities created by rapid advancements in the fields of technology and science and genetics. I learned a great deal about genetic disorders in a genetics tutorial I took this year and the thought of helping people overcome a disorder or sickness, such as breast cancer, by manipulating their genes is amazing and very promising."

THE FUTURE, FEARS -- "What scares me the most? Although the thriving field of genetic research has many positives, the work done to manipulate genes to clone people or the possibility of altering the genetic code of fetuses so parents can choose the traits they want their child to possess is very scary. While the field of genetics possesses promising potential in helping people overcome illnesses or disorders, daunting images of a "Brave New World" society come to mind when thinking of the consequences of abusing genetics."
 
LIFE AT 30 -- "I hope by age 30 to be a pediatrician or pediatric surgeon. However, I might go to Princeton and find that I'm intrigued by politics, who knows? Maybe I'll end up being a lawyer or a teacher or even the first woman President."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos (pgs. 12 & 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOOD ADVICE PRESS (50%); NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY (58%); NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY (58%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY (58%); NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY (58%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (72%); POETRY (71%); VERDICTS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999



400 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 14; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: OUT OF ORDER;
Looking to Put Fatherhood in Its Proper Place

BYLINE: By DAVID BOUCHIER; E-mail address: liorder@nytimes.com

 BODY:
KING LEAR'S daughters didn't need a Father's Day to remember the old man. He was constantly in their thoughts. But, in 1925, Calvin Coolidge decided that fathers were no longer getting enough attention or respect. He proclaimed the national observance of Father's Day. Too late, of course: when we need a special day to remind us of something, it's already a lost cause.
Fathers need a special day more than most. They are in danger of being forgotten altogether, what with divorce, single motherhood and the fashion for artificial insemination. Despised as deadbeat dads, and ridiculed in endless television sitcoms as incompetent boobies who can't outwit a 5-year-old child, fathers are falling out of sight, and out of style. 
 Today's fathers cry out with Rodney Dangerfield, "I don't get no respect." Archie Bunker could bluster his way through life on the excuse that he earned the wages for the whole family. But women now earn as much as men in half of all American households. In many families, they earn more than their miserable spouses. So father is a junior partner now, and he has been introduced to the pleasures of domestic slavery.
Father is absent without leave from a third of all American families. Who let him get away? The social critic Barbara Ehrenreich points the finger of guilt at Hugh Hefner and his Playboy magazine, which, back in the 1950's, offered men a new deal. The Playboy philosophy divided men into two groups: husbands, who were despised as economic slaves, and "free men," who could spend all their incomes on toys and treats for themselves. It was, said Ms. Ehrenreich, a huge mistake to give men this choice. The weaker members of the sex -- just about all of them -- decided that having a good time was more appealing than the duties of family life.
Fatherhood is the least well-planned of all human activities. Young men dream of being wealthy lawyers or Wall Street brokers. Perhaps some still dream about being astronauts or explorers. But fatherhood is not on their agenda. They just don't see it coming. Attractive young women are one of the few things in America not to carry a large label: Warning, Keep Clear, Danger of Fatherhood. When he reads the personal ads, a young man gets almost no clue as to the risks he is running in this particular marketplace. "Beautiful intelligent female," "Tall, blue-eyed, fun-loving blonde" and "Love bomb," like most advertising, omit some important details. A child, up to the age of 22, now comes with a quarter-million dollar price tag, not including extras like post-graduate education, Camaros and bail bonds. If men really thought about all this ahead of time, the human race would die out in a single generation.
We need ways to make fatherhood more attractive. Just a single day in the year, with a few predictable gifts, is not enough of a reward. A tie is a kind of noose; a pair of socks is an insult. "How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is to have a thankless child," King Lear might have cried, confronted with yet another umbrella or electric screwdriver.
How do we get Dad back into the family picture? Some experts have suggested that we should bring back patriarchy. Men might be more keen on fatherhood if they could have some of the privileges that used to go with it, like not expressing their feelings. But we can't turn the clock back to Archie Bunker's time. Men have simply lost the knack, and the old-fashioned man is an endangered species. The last remnants of the breed -- loud, obnoxious, untidy fellows who can't even iron a skirt -- can be found hanging out in sports bars, dreaming about the days when John Wayne and Clint Eastwood ruled the world.
These last few macho men disturb the more disciplined men of suburbia, the way that outdoor cats upset the tranquility of indoor cats. Sooner or later, for the good of society, they will have to be rounded up, along with their trucks and their Harley Davidsons and taken to a reservation out west. This last refuge of old-fashioned masculinity could become a theme park, Testosterone Valley, a monument to the father we're glad we never had.
This suggests a foolproof scheme for the revival of fatherhood. Fathers who stick with the job should get mileage credits, just like airline travelers. Every day or evening at home would count for so many points, with a bonus for Parent-Teacher Association meetings, school plays and visits to the pediatrician.
The dedicated Dad would soon accumulate enough points to claim some modest prizes: an evening at the sports bar, a ride in a truck, a day out fishing. But the end of the rainbow, for the Dad who really stacked up the points, would be a special kind of sabbatical in the old-fashioned world of masculinity, out there in Testosterone Valley with the banished men of yesteryear. The prize would include a ritual burning of his suit and apron, the company of a meek and adoring wife (an actress) and quiet, obedient children (robots), lots of politically incorrect buddies and a special therapist with death-or-glory tattoos to put the suburban man out of touch with his feelings. But a week in Testosterone Valley would be the maximum. They might begin to enjoy it.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (P. C. Vey)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FAMILY (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); MEN (78%); SLAVERY (70%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (69%); BONDS (69%); 

PERSON: RODNEY DANGERFIELD (56%); HUGH MARSTON HEFNER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1999

 
