

801 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME; 
Roommate Overcharges Risk Lease

BYLINE:  By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
THOUSANDS of New York City rent-stabilized tenants who have roommates could be in danger of losing their apartments, landlord-tenant lawyers say, because of a recent ruling by a Manhattan appeals court.
 On Dec. 31, 2001, a three-judge panel of the Appellate Term, First Department, upheld an earlier ruling by a Manhattan Housing Court judge who refused to dismiss an eviction action brought by a landlord against a tenant who was alleged to be charging her roommate more than the roommate's proportionate share of the rent. The appellate court agreed that such an overcharge would violate a provision of the Rent Stabilization Code that prohibits tenants from profiteering from their financial arrangements with roommates, and sent the case back to the Housing Court for trial. 
 Lawyers who represent landlords say the decision appropriately prevents rent-stabilized tenants from profiting from their below-market-rate rents -- and, at the same time, protects roommates from paying more than their fair share of the rent. Tenants' lawyers say that the ruling interferes with the private financial relationships of tenants and roommates and could result in landlords aggressively pursuing eviction cases against tenants with roommates. 
In fact, the tenants' lawyers say, profiteering is considered a "noncurable" violation of the rent code. Even tenants who are now overcharging their roommates but who are willing to adjust the rent to comply with the law may find that it is too late to do so.
"I believe that there's going to be an emptying of apartments in New York City at a rate we've never seen before," said Darnay Hoffman, the Manhattan lawyer who represented the tenant in the case just decided. "What this means is that even in cases where a roommate is happy paying more than his proportionate share of the rent, the landlord becomes the gatekeeper. It means that the landlord is now in a position to interject himself into the private arrangements of people who are living together. And, worst of all, it's a noncurable violation of the code. That means you don't get a second chance to do it right."
Mr. Hoffman explained that the underpinning of the case was an amendment to the Rent Stabilization Code adopted on Dec. 20, 2000, by the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the state agency that administers the rent laws.
Prior to that date, he said, there was nothing in the code that prevented tenants in rent-stabilized apartments from charging their legal roommates whatever rent the roommate was willing to pay. The amendment adopted by the agency, however, prohibits tenants in New York City from charging roommates more than the roommate's proportionate share of the rent. (The prohibition does not extend to rent-stabilized tenants elsewhere in the state.)
Under the amendment, Mr. Hoffman said, a roommate's proportionate share of the rent is determined by dividing the legal regulated rent by the number of occupants in the apartment and the number of tenants named on the lease.
For purposes of determining proportionate share, a married couple whose names appear on the lease would be counted as one tenant, and immediate family members of the tenant, along with dependent children of any roommate, would not be counted. 
So, for example, the proportionate share of the rent for a roommate who lived with a married couple with a child would be 50 percent. The same proportion would apply to a roommate who lived with a lone tenant or with a lone tenant and the roommate's dependent child.
According to the Appellate Court's written decision -- RAM 1 L.L.C. v. Mazzola -- Mr. Hoffman's client, Joan E. Mazzola, whose rent-stabilized rent was $1,847.77 a month, was alleged to be charging her roommate, Brian Moro, $2,200 a month. When the landlord learned of the overcharge, it started an eviction action against Ms. Mazzola based upon her alleged violation of section 2525.7(b) of the Rent Stabilization Code, the amendment that prohibits charging a roommate more than a proportionate share of the rent.
Mr. Hoffman then filed a motion to dismiss the case, allowing that for purposes of the motion only, the allegations were true. Judge Larry S. Schachner of the Housing Court denied the motion -- a decision that has now been upheld by the Appellate Term -- ruling that the eviction action could proceed and that, if the allegations are proved to be true, Ms. Mazzola and her roommate can be evicted from the apartment.
While that alone would be troubling enough for Ms. Mazzola and other tenants who are charging their roommates more than their proportionate share of the rent, what is particularly painful is that violation of the antiprofiteering section of the code is a noncurable violation.
William Neville, a Manhattan lawyer who represented RAM 1 L.L.C., the landlord, explained that most eviction actions brought by landlords against tenants for violations of the terms of the lease were curable violations. If the tenant ceases the action that is causing the violation, he said, the tenant cannot be evicted.
In fact, Mr. Neville said, even in cases where a landlord prevails in an eviction case for violation of the lease, the court typically gives the tenant 10 days to avoid being evicted by curing the violation.
The case brought by Mr. Neville's client, however, did not allege that Ms. Mazzola violated the lease, but instead that she violated a section of the Rent Stabilization Code that does not permit a cure -- either before or after the case is decided.
"That means that if the trial court accepts our version of the facts" -- that Ms. Mazzola was charging her roommate more than his proportionate share of the rent -- "then we're entitled to possession and she has no right to cure," Mr. Neville said.
He added that the result is ultimately appropriate since a tenant who is charging a roommate an excessive amount of rent is taking advantage of the protections the rent laws were intended to provide.
"The Rent Stabilization Law was designed to prevent people from paying oppressive rents," Mr. Neville said. "And it does that by limiting the rent a landlord can charge. Given that fact, why should a tenant be allowed to take advantage of the rent laws and gain profits that the owner of the property cannot get?"
He added that while the Rent Stabilization Code does not require a tenant to divulge how much a roommate is being charged, there are various ways a landlord can obtain such information. In some cases, Mr. Neville said, the tenant advertises the apartment and the rent being sought. In others a disgruntled former roommate might provide the information.
Once a landlord has reasonable grounds to believe that a tenant is violating the code, the landlord can start an eviction action. When that happens, the landlord can call the roommate as a witness at the trial and ask him how much rent he is paying to the tenant. 
Lucas Ferrara, a Manhattan lawyer who represents both landlords and tenants, said there were legitimate arguments on both sides.
"The amendment to the law was in response to situations where tenants were gaining financial benefits from their regulated status," Mr. Ferrara said.
At the same time, he said, the inflexible manner in which the law defined a roommate's proportionate share of the rent could produce some seemingly unfair results.
For example, Mr. Ferrara said, the law does not account for situations in which the roommate agrees to pay more than his or her proportionate share of the rent because the roommate has the use of more space in the apartment than the tenant.
Mr. Hoffman, who said it was unlikely that he would get the permission necessary to appeal the case to a higher court, said the law could actually end up hurting the roommates it was intended to protect.
"Think about it for a minute," he said. "If the tenant gets evicted, the roommate goes, too."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENT CONTROL (93%); RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (91%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); APPEALS (90%); EVICTION (90%); LAWYERS (90%); JUDGES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



802 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island; 
For Single-Screen Theaters, the Next Act

BYLINE:  By CAROLE PAQUETTE

 BODY:
WITH multiscreen movie theaters now an integral part of today's entertainment, most of Long Island's original single-screen theaters, once owned by the giants in the movie industry, have lost their audience. Unprofitable in their original function, most old theaters have been bought by developers or local entrepreneurs who have proposed various uses for what was once a strong economic anchor for downtown businesses.
 In Nassau, plans are under way to convert a former theater in Great Neck Estates into a condominium with a two-story parking garage. A two-story office building is planned for a single-screen theater in Woodbury that has been vacant since last spring. 
 Farther east, in Suffolk, the 72-year-old single-screen theater on Smithtown's Main Street was recently sold for $425,000 to a group of local residents who plan to restore it for use as a center for the performing arts. 
In some cases, the creative direction taken by the current owners of the old theaters has evolved along with the bankruptcies of some major theater companies. 
In restructuring their companies, "some have sold off the smaller, older and less profitable theaters," said Mitch Neuhauser, associate executive director for the National Association of Theater Owners of New York State.
Mark Walsh, a principal in Select Investment Realty Advisers, a commercial investment brokerage firm in Hauppauge, said: "Many theater companies went into bankruptcy because they were building new theaters too fast. They also owned a lot of old theaters that were economically obsolete, and which didn't fit the modern design of what people wanted. It was too expensive to retrofit, and often there wasn't enough space. 
"People going to the theater today want their creature comforts, reclining seats with cup holders, good heating and the good view offered by stadium-type seating." As a consultant for United Artists, Mr. Walsh has sold off $25 million of real estate for the company in the New York City region, including the Smithtown Theater.
United Artists, which emerged from six months of bankruptcy last February, "has restructured and is now in the market for new opportunities," said Scott Hall, director of real estate for United Artists Theater Circuit Inc., which is based in Denver.
In 1996, with 76 screens, the company owned 16 of Long Island's 61 theaters. Four of those were single-screen theaters -- in Smithtown, Northport, Lindenhurst and Westhampton Beach. 
United Artists now owns 74 screens in 9 of Long Island's 62 theaters, ranging from 13 screens at the Patchogue Multiplex Theater to 4 at the Southampton Theater. 
All four single-screen theaters have been sold, Mr. Hall said. "Smithtown was the last one and we're glad to see it go to someone who will give it the attention it deserves," he said.
United Artists will now focus on renovating and enlarging its multiscreen theaters, he said. This includes adding stadium seating and increasing the size of its Lynbrook theater to 50,000 square feet from 23,000 square feet and adding six screens to the six already there. 
Thomas Fitzsimmons, an architect in Great Neck, said he was working on the conversion of a brick building with decorative stonework that began as a legitimate vaudeville theater in 1922 called the Playhouse Theater in Great Neck Estates. 
The theater occupies 7,000 square feet in the rear of an 11,000-square-foot four-story building on Middle Neck Road, the village's main street. The front of the building includes 4,000 square feet of retail stores on the grade level and six apartments on the three stories above that, which were part of the original structure.
Around 1930, the theater was bought by United Artists to show movies. It was sold in 1980 to a group that tried to use it for local acting groups. That venture failed and in 1982 the theater use was eliminated and the building was renovated, Mr. Fitzsimmons said. The lower level, which contained the seats, was remodeled into an indoor parking lot. 
THREE years ago, the new owner, the First Playhouse of Great Neck Corporation, a Manhattan development group, started the process of turning the former theater space into apartments.
The proposed $3.5 million project, which is now in the permit stage, would include converting the 48-foot-high interior volume of the former theater into two levels that would include 12 luxury one- and two-bedroom apartments and adding two levels of parking to accommodate 30 cars. The apartments, including three duplexes, would range from 850 to 1,600 square feet.
The six original apartments are to be renovated and the retail area reduced to 3,000 square feet to allow for the parking garage. Upon completion of the project, all units are to be sold as condominiums, Mr. Fitzsimmons said. 
In Suffolk, the 544-seat Smithtown theater, which includes an 86-seat balcony, is known for its Art Deco interior. On Jan. 11, the theater was bought by the Smithtown Theater Holding Company.
The 8,190-square-foot building had been showing second-run films for $2 until it closed two years ago. Plans for the theater include showing cultural films and presenting performances by professional artists and a local children's musical theater group. 
Ken Washington, former director of the Smithtown Township Arts Council, who spearheaded a drive to keep the theater "as an establishment for the arts," said: "It is not in bad condition. Imminent plans include some minor renovations, enlarging the stage, removing some seats and updating the lighting and heating."
The new owners of the theater, Mr. Washington said, "are basically local residents who have an altruistic purpose, rather than one of profit; they purchased it for the good of the community." Mr. Washington is one of the principals. 
The former 1,100-seat Syosset Theater is one of the original buildings in the 42-building corporate park owned by the Tilles Companies in Woodbury. The corporate park, Nassau Crossways International Plaza, was created 40 years ago on a 135-acre carefully landscaped site. The theater, which was built in 1960, had been leased by United Artists until last spring and has remained vacant since. Tilles is planning to divide the building into two 12,000-square-foot floors of office space, each housing one tenant, according to Philip Wachtler, Tilles's director of leasing and development. 
The demise of the traditional one-screen theater is all part of a change in lifestyle, said James Thomas Martino, a Port Washington architect who has designed movie theaters throughout the country and in South America for the last 18 years. 
"It is very exciting today -- the theater has grown and has become more of a total night-out experience," he said. "You are not just being funneled through a building to a dark room."
The typical theater being built today has 15 to 24 screens and has total space of 80,000 to 100,000 square feet, he said. 
"It is more of a meeting place with cafes, game rooms and some even have combined restaurants," said Mr. Martino, who designed three theaters on Long Island for the Canada-based Cineplex Odeon, which has since been bought by Sony Entertainment of New York City.
HIS projects include a new six-screen theater for downtown Glen Cove and the conversion of a one-screen theater at the Smith Haven Mall to four screens. Four years ago, Mr. Martino designed a new eight-screen, 48,217-square-foot theater in downtown Huntington on the site of the town's old one-screen theater, which had been demolished.
Because of property constraints, even those theaters are small compared with others being built around the country, Mr. Martino said. He cited a 17-screen, 78,482-square-foot theater -- called The Palace -- with 3,611 seats he designed for Crown Theaters in Hartford in 2000. The 4,500-square-foot lobby was designed with a raised dome with fiber-optic stars projected above "to create a mystical ambience," he said.
While there are large, modern 16- and 17-screen theaters built by the Boston-based National Amusements in Hicksville and Commack, they are in the minority, Mr. Martino said.
"The difficulty on Long Island is finding the property to build a grand theater," he said. "Besides the building site, there is the land required for parking, which is one car space for every four seats. There is no land left in Nassau, and the demand out east is not as great."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, the proposed facade of the Playhouse Apartments in Great Neck Estates. Smithtown Theater, above, is to be used as a cultural and performance center. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times); (Thomas F. Fitzsimmons A.I.A.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE THEATERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SECURITIES BROKERS (62%); THEATER (58%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: UNITED ARTISTS THEATRE CIRCUIT INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512131 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS (EXCEPT DRIVE-INS) (82%); SIC7832 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS, EXCEPT DRIVE-IN (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



803 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: CITIES; 
In Hoboken, the Mayor Wants Partying Toned Down a Bit

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL

DATELINE: HOBOKEN 

 BODY:
ABOUT 11:30 on a recent Friday night, 27-year-old Roberto Toscano and a half-dozen friends stood shivering and smoking cigarettes in front of Oscar's Groceries.
 The group of 20-something guys had just tried to get into the popular place known simply as the bar at 10th and Willow, where they were hoping -- to use more delicate terms than their own -- to meet some attractive young women. 
 But the bar was at the 249-person capacity set by the local fire code, and instead of having them get in line -- as he used to -- the managing partner, Mario Steriti, jotted down their cellphone numbers and told them to move on and wait for his call.
A new no-line policy -- the result of a meeting early last month between city officials and restaurant and bar owners -- has become the latest flash point in an intermittent debate over the quality of life that has emerged as Hoboken has developed a reputation as a party town. Residents complain of revelers making noise, urinating in public and occasionally destroying property late at night and into the early morning. 
The rule is intended to reduce congregations of young people by having them move on to other bars, and many do. But some, like Mr. Fowler and company, simply loiter on surrounding blocks, waiting for a call or passing the entrance every few minutes to see if spots have opened up.
"Residents can't be happy about this, because people are outside making noise," said Mr. Toscano, an advertising consultant from Rockland County, N.Y.
Anne-Marie Pelletier begs to differ. She, her husband and their three school-age children live in a brownstone across 10th Street from where the line used to form outside the bar. Ms. Pelletier was the first to suggest the no-lines idea to Mayor David Roberts. 
The bar line was loud, she said, but not because Mr. Steriti did not do everything he could to keep it quiet.
"Drunks are noisy," said Ms. Pelletier. "Groups of drunks are noisier. There's nothing you're going to do to get away from that. It's a simple fact of life. When they come to your neighborhood week after week and they pollute your home with noise, you get angry. You get resentful."
As a result, in the fall she and other residents formed a group called Stop Toxic Unnecessary Noise, or STUN.
Night life, to a large extent, is the reason this river city has flourished over the past two decades. Several bar owners criticized the new policy, saying they were pressured into agreeing to it under veiled threats of harsher measures like pushing up closing time from 3 a.m. to 1 a.m.
"It's hard for me to tell people, 'Don't come in here,' " said Mr. Steriti. "We work as hard as we do to make the people want to come here. They have to want to be here to come here. To send them away is scary. Six months from now they are not going to come back."
Over the past 20 years, Hoboken has attracted increasing numbers of young professionals and families escaping Manhattan rents. A debate about overdevelopment became the centerpiece of the mayoral election last May, in which Mr. Roberts defeated the two-term incumbent, Anthony Russo. 
It is a place where politics, friendships and businesses intertwine, sometimes uncomfortably. Mayor Roberts, whose family owns property and runs restaurants in town, said that his brother, Charles, has chided him for not supporting the industry that supported his family for decades. One of the bar owners outraged over the new lines policy, Dave Carney of the Madison Bar and Grill on Washington Street, Hoboken's main drag, pays $4,500 a month in rent to the mayor's brother, his landlord.
The new mayor said that he was approaching the bar issue with an open mind and that he was willing to hear suggestions. "We're not racing in with our police department and we're not changing laws that are very aggressively hurting businesses," he said. "But we're firm, we're holding our position." He said more police officers had been moved to the night shift to patrol the streets around the bars.
Some owners of more upscale restaurants and bars are pleased with the no-lines policy, which they hope will make Hoboken more attractive to a less rowdy crowd, which already makes up a good part of the social scene. 
"The mayor is being proactive and saying, 'What can you do about this before it becomes a big problem again?' " said Eugene Flinn, who took over the highly regarded Amanda's restaurant when the mayor's immediate family sold it in 1996. He said other measures were also discussed at the meeting, including hiring crews to clean the streets between 3 and 5 a.m. 
Mr. Flinn said he had also made sacrifices in the interest of community relations. He would love to open the yard behind his restaurant to outdoor dining in the warm months, he said, but will not because the neighbors are against it.
Owners of the bars that are affected said they were against the agreement.
"I think it's crazy you would ask businesses to turn away business," said Mr. Carney. "Slower bars in town will benefit from the more successful ones. Why should mediocre bars benefit from our success?"
But Mayor Roberts and owners of the more upscale establishments are skeptical about that argument. "Your establishment is already filled to capacity, so the line is just a guarantee that for every person that leaves there's one that comes in," he said. "I understand their business and it's of no economic consequence."
But others counter that in a highly competitive bar town in a faltering economy, keeping a place filled on weekend nights is crucial to their success. Javier Barreiro, a manager at Rodeo, another popular bar on Washington Street, suggested reinstating lines but limiting their length.
Luisa Esposito, 31, and Eric Nastri, 33 are exactly the kind of people that the mayor hopes to please. The couple, who are expecting a child, live down the street from the bar at 10th and Willow, but rarely frequent it. The policy might not directly help them, they say, but they support it.
"I think if you live directly above the bar, or across the street, I can understand how it could get a little quieter," Mr. Nastri said. 
But, Ms. Esposito added: "The bigger problem is after they leave the bars. They're wasted and they destroy things."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 3, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about a mayoral ban in Hoboken on waiting lines outside the city's bars misstated the role of Dave Carney, who opposes the policy. He is the general manager of the Madison Bar and Grill; the owner is his wife, Kristian L. Carney.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Though lines at bars in Hoboken are banned, young people still congregate near the Black Bear Bar & Grill on Washington Street, left. Eric Nastri and Louise Esposito, below, who live near a bar, plan to move. Anne-Marie Pelletier suggested the no-line policy to the mayor. (Photographs by Jake Price for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); CHILDREN (68%); WATER POLLUTION (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



804 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2869 words

HEADLINE: In Brooklyn, Projects, Plans and Hopes 

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
AS construction work begins on 9 MetroTech South, a 670,000-square-foot building that will house 1,300 employees of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, planning is under way to lay the zoning and other groundwork for other development in downtown Brooklyn. 
 While the new building will complete development of the 16-acre MetroTech complex, its developer and others active in the borough think Brooklyn could become increasingly attractive to companies that are expanding or that want to spread out their work forces for increased security in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks, while still remaining in the city. 
 To help make this happen, efforts are under way to revise the zoning for certain parts of the downtown area to permit the construction of buildings -- both office towers and housing -- larger than zoning now permits. The designated sites include four blocks along Livingston Street between Smith Street and Flatbush Avenue, several blocks on both sides of Willoughby Street near Flatbush Avenue and several blocks on the east side of Flatbush Avenue closer to the Brooklyn Bridge. 
Others are working to add amenities by upgrading or expanding two existing malls. Work is to begin next month above the Long Island Rail Road's Brooklyn terminus on the four-story, 400,000-square-foot Atlantic Terminal Mall, almost half of which is to be occupied by a Target department store. The project includes foundation work for an eventual office tower, and city and Metropolitan Transportation Authority crews have been preparing the site for construction. 
Some customers for the malls are expected to come from the area's student population, which will take on a more 24-hour character with the opening of a new dormitory this fall, with another one, at a different school, also being planned. 
Further in the future -- with the other demands on city and state coffers raising questions about timing -- are ambitious plans for developing a park along the waterfront below Brooklyn Heights and, in the area around the Brooklyn Academy of Music, expanding cultural facilities while adding housing and office space.
Since many of these projects are dependent on city money, they are likely to be delayed by the current budget pressures. But backers say the preliminary work is necessary to prepare the area so that developers will be able to move quickly when demand is felt from companies that are expanding or are relocating some of their offices.
"Downtown Brooklyn has got to be ready to go in the next up-cycle," said James Whelan, director of the Downtown Brooklyn Council. The council is asking city planners to increase zoning in the designated locations to permit the development of 12 million square feet of space: 9 million commercial and 3 million residential.
He said residential construction was an important part of the plan to create what he terms "a true downtown." He added, "We need to have people here after 5:30 in the afternoon." One criticism of MetroTech has been that while thousands of people work there during the day, most leave for homes elsewhere in the city or in the suburbs after office hours, leaving the streets empty and lifeless.
Similarly, educational institutions in downtown Brooklyn are trying to turn at least a small number of the estimated 30,000 students who flood into the area each day into residents. As part of a $100 million renovation and expansion of its Brooklyn campus, Polytechnic University has built its first dormitory, a 400-bed facility that is scheduled to open in the fall. Brooklyn Law School has announced plans to build its first dormitory as well, with 350 beds, at the northwest corner of Boerum Place and State Street.
Having a larger 24-hour population should attract retailers and make the neighborhood more attractive to companies looking for office space, Mr. Whelan said. "We serve Midtown and lower Manhattan, and we compete with the New Jersey waterfront," he said. Also among potential competitors is Long Island City, Queens, where a 37-block area was rezoned for greater density last year, although no projects are yet under way.
WHILE planners and developers agree that new commercial projects will most likely wait for the next economic upturn, the development of 9 MetroTech South is an indication of how fast things can happen when a site is ready to go and there is a client in need.
Before Sept. 11, the Forest City Ratner Companies, the developer of MetroTech, did not have an anchor tenant for the site, at the northwest corner of Myrtle Avenue and Flatbush Avenue Extension, and had no plans to build.
Then, "the deal was done in two months," said Bruce C. Ratner, the company's president, of the decision by Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield to sign a lease for 322,220 square feet, or about one-half the 19-story building. Because the company's employees are currently scattered in different locations, construction is proceeding urgently. "We are working double shifts and should have the building ready in 18 months, rather than the 24 to 30 months it would usually take," he said.
Mr. Ratner said events of Sept. 11 appeared to have changed corporate attitudes toward Brooklyn. In the past, financial services companies placed back-office operations in the borough because the rents were lower, while keeping their headquarters in Manhattan. Now, he said, there is interest in moving whole entities to Brooklyn, which is, among other things, on a different power grid than Manhattan.
"Prior to this, downtown Brooklyn was strictly a low-cost alternative," he said. "Now companies that are interested in spreading out their space are interested in Brooklyn for reasons not based solely on costs."
Dr. George Bugliarello, the chancellor of Polytechnic and also the conceptual father of MetroTech, said Sept. 11 might lead corporate executives, city officials and developers to question the value of concentrating businesses in Manhattan. "In medieval times cities were a place of protection," he said. "Now cities are hostages, and we have to rethink the distribution of activity."
But he said it would be difficult to replicate MetroTech, because few developers are willing to take on a $1 billion project that takes 15 years to plan and build.
In addition to the developers of office and academic projects, retail developers are paying increasing attention to downtown Brooklyn. Joseph J. Sitt, the principal owner of Thor Equities, a real estate investment company, has purchased the somewhat threadbare Albee Square Mall, between Flatbush Avenue and Fulton and Gold Streets, and plans to transform it into an upscale shopping center called the Gallery at Fulton Street.
Mr. Sitt, who developed the Ashley Stewart retail clothing chain, aimed at urban women, into a business with annual sales of more than $300 million, said there is money to be made in urban locations as well as suburban malls. He said the first task is to fix the leaky roof of the three-story mall, but then he plans to improve the appearance of the entire building. "I'm going to rip out the linoleum floors and replace them with granite," he said.
He said that in the late 1990's companies he calls "white-bread retailers" discovered the urban market, increasing competition for Ashley Stewart, and Mr. Sitt sold his interest in the company. He said he decided to buy real estate in urban areas to present a variety of retail concepts. The mall has Toys "R" Us as one anchor, and Mr. Sitt said he was hoping to attract a department store as another anchor.
He said the plan is to create the same shopping experience as in top quality suburban areas. "We are going to take the finest quality mall in white, suburban areas and bring it to downtown Brooklyn," he said.
The site includes a five-story parking garage that Thor Equities owns and is in one of the areas designated for increased zoning. Mr. Sitt said he is prepared to demolish the existing structure and build a 900,000-square-foot building if a tenant signs a lease without waiting for the zoning to change. He said he would build it in such a way that it could be expanded if the zoning is changed to allow 2.5 million square feet of development. Included in that figure would be another building over the retail space.
More immediate retail development plans are about to be executed by Forest City Ratner on a 3.6-acre site bounded by Atlantic and Flatbush Avenues, Hanson Place and Fort Greene Place. The mall, to be called Atlantic Terminal, is to sit atop the Long Island Rail Road terminal, which is connected to 10 subway lines. Forest City Ratner officials say 50 million subway, commuter rail and bus passengers pass by the location each year.
The 400,000-square-foot, four-story Atlantic Terminal will be adjacent to the Atlantic Center retail mall, which opened in 1996. Atlantic Terminal is the third and final phase of the project, which also includes 417 units of owner-occupied affordable housing and a public park.
The anchor store for Atlantic Terminal will be a 194,000-square-foot Target discount department store. Other retailers that have signed leases at the project include Payless Shoesource, Rockaway Bedding, Daffy's and Avenue, a women's clothing store. These stores will join Macy's, Pathmark, Old Navy and Circuit City, which are already in operation at Atlantic Center.
Work on Atlantic Terminal is scheduled to begin next month, with completion scheduled for March 2004.
Mr. Ratner said an office building could be built on top of the retail space at Atlantic Terminal and Center if demand warrants.
CLOSER to Fort Greene Park, the BAM Local Development Corporation is seeking to establish a residential and cultural district on land that is now used mostly for surface parking lots. The district would be anchored by the Brooklyn Academy of Music, hence the name.
"Our goal is to develop a mixed use, multicultural arts district by using underused city-owned property," said Jeanne Lutfy, president of the development group. (Harvey Lichtenstein, the former president of the music academy, is chairman.)
She said the plan is to develop low-cost housing along with cultural, meeting and rehearsal spaces so there will be people on the streets day and night. She said the city had earmarked $80 million in its capital budget, with additional financing expected from the state and programs intended to promote the development of affordable housing.
One of the group's first projects is the renovation of 80 Hanson Place, a 30,000-square-foot state-owned building that had stood vacant for 10 years. The development corporation will renovate the building as offices and meeting spaces for small nonprofit arts groups, with the work scheduled to start in March and to be completed by the end of the year. Part of the financing is coming from the city and the remainder from a $1 million grant from the state.
Already in the area is the Mark Morris Dance Center, which opened last fall in a long-vacant space after a $7 million renovation. The center includes a permanent home for the Mark Morris Dance Group along with space for dance classes for the public and dance rehearsal space for rent to outside groups.
Ms. Lutfy said the next project is the development of the so-called East Site with the ubiquitous Mr. Ratner, who controls the property. She said that it would be a mix of about 50,000 square feet of cultural space and 100,000 square feet of housing and that construction should begin early in 2003 and be complete by the end of the year. City funding is to pay for the cultural part, and existing housing programs are expected to be tapped to aid the residential component.
Plans for the other parcels of land are further in the future, she said, particularly the West Site, which is entirely in private hands.
While plans for the cultural district develop, another local development corporation is seeking to develop a public park along the East River waterfront. It is to run from the footing of the Manhattan Bridge past the developing Dumbo neighborhood past the Brooklyn Bridge and south onto piers little used by their owner, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. The park would cover 67 acres of land stretching from Jay Street in the north to Atlantic Avenue in the south.
The park would include some commercial development, including a hotel and conference center. But officials of the Brooklyn Bridge Park Development Corporation say 80 percent of the park will be open space in an area of the city with little of it.
Like many waterfront areas of New York, the industrial docks near the Fulton ferry landing were made obsolete by the emergence of containerized shipping and the development of container ports in New Jersey. Joanne Witty, the president of the development corporation, said the park would emerge "as the industrial glacier recedes from the waterfront."
Ms. Witty said the park has an $85 million commitment from the state through the Port Authority, which is treating the pilings supporting the docks to prevent further damage from marine pests, and $65 million from the city. She said she thought the state commitment was solid, but admitted that the city funds have to be appropriated on a yearly basis. "The park can be seen as economic development that provides jobs and improves the attractiveness of the harbor," Ms. Witty said.
Ferry service is expected to resume this summer between the Fulton Landing and various points in Manhattan. The 90-passenger boats are to be operated by New York Water Taxi.
Retail and leasing activity have been increasing in the Dumbo area, said Jed D. Walentas, an executive of the Two Trees Management Company, which owns and manages most of the buildings in the area. He said Williams-Sonoma, a housewares and cookware company, is building two separate design studios on the eighth and ninth floors of the building at 55 Washington Street, and ABC Carpet has been holding warehouse sales in 40,000 square feet of space at 20 Jay Street while negotiating for a permanent location.
He said his company is also prebuilding small office spaces in the 2,000- to 4,000-square-foot range for design, architectural and consulting companies at the rate of "about a dozen a month."
Also in Dumbo, Jeffrey M. Brown Associates is planning a mixed-use development on what is now a surface parking lot on Jay Street between Front and York Streets. The proposed development, called Light Bridges at 100 Jay Street, would include retail stores and office space in the base of the building and two residential towers connected by a light bridge.
Since the site slopes 17 feet downward toward the East River, the building incorporates an unusual design. "We are going to have one and one half levels of retail with about 24,000 to 30,000 square feet of space and one and a half levels of parking for 250 to 260 cars," Mr. Brown said. Five levels of office space would be on top of the retail space and rise to the level of the deck of the Manhattan Bridge. The residential towers would be built above the commercial space.
Regarding the proposed zoning change, Mr. Whelan said his group had worked with city planners and the Economic Development Commission, and he expressed confidence that the floor-area ratio -- a measure of construction density -- of 3.5 along Livingston Street and 6.5 along Willoughby Street would be increased to the 12 that has been approved for the commercial district in Long Island City.
HE said many of the Brooklyn sites included in the proposal had been identified in previous studies as suitable for development. He said the large sites available on Willoughby Street would make it logical for commercial development, while the Livingston Street properties would be suitable for residential development because of their proximity to the Boerum Hill residential neighborhood.
Mr. Whelan said the proposal still faced an environmental and land use review before being submitted to the city's Planning Commission. As with all zoning changes, approval by the City Council is needed as well. He said he expected the process to be completed by the end of 2003.
A spokesman for Marty Markowitz, the new Brooklyn borough president, said Mr. Markowitz "cautiously supports" the change as long as emphasis is placed on public transportation to avoid having larger buildings add to passenger-vehicle traffic.
Developers say that while the proposed zoning change will not be enough by itself to spur development, it is an essential prerequisite. "Nothing will happen unless there is an up-zone," said Jane Marshall, a vice president of Forest City Ratner and project manager for Atlantic Terminal and 330 Jay Street, which is being built to house the Kings County Family Court and part of the New York Supreme Court. "You need to have the density to encourage development."
Joshua L. Muss, who is seeking to build a 280-room addition to his highly successful Marriott Hotel in downtown Brooklyn, said the city needs to encourage development in the boroughs because the process is so drawn out that it discourages most builders.
"We need to focus now on getting sites ready so we can act quickly when companies are ready" to sign leases, Mr. Muss said. "To do that, we need the support of the city and community groups."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shown at site of 9 MetroTech South, James Whelan, director of the Downtown Brooklyn Council, is seeking zoning changes to allow development of additional 12 million square feet of space in the area. Below, facade plan for the Gallery at Fulton Street, formerly Albee Square Mall. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); (Taylor Associates Architects)(pg. 8); 3. Atlantic Terminal mall, where work starts next month, and prospective office tower. (F. M. Costantino Inc. for Cesar Pelli & Associates); 1. 9 MetroTech South, future offices for Empire Blue Cross, under construction. (F. M. Costantino Inc. for Cesar Pelli & Associates); 2. Polytechnic University's first dormitory, with 400 beds, opening in the fall. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 1) Map of Brooklyn highlights surrounding area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); ZONING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUILDING PERMITS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (77%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); RETAILERS (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (63%) ZONING; METROTECH CENTER (BROOKLYN); ATLANTIC TERMINAL MALL (BROOKLYN); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (91%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%) BROOKLYN ACADEMY OF MUSIC; TARGET STORES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (91%)

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



805 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
Semigloss

BYLINE:  By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: VOORHEES 

 BODY:
IF New Jersey is the much-maligned stepchild among states, where does that leave South Jersey?
 Historically, people from the northern part of the state have been known to peer south and see nothing but hicks and the sticks. These days, however, others -- including at least one publisher -- see dollar bills. 
 "South Jersey has been bowing to North Jersey far too long, or basically, it has been ignored," said Mike Hogan, the director of advertising for SJ Magazine, a new monthly publication that was mailed to 113,000 homes earlier this month. 
Mr. Hogan -- the guiding light of the new venture -- said he saw an untapped high-demographic market in seven contiguous towns in Camden and Burlington Counties -- Voorhees, Cherry Hill, Haddonfield, Moorestown, Evesham, Mount Laurel and Medford.
Before turning his attention to SJ Magazine, Mr. Hogan had worked in sales management for CBS in Philadelphia, Chicago and New York, and had been sales manager for the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team and WIP-AM, the sports-talk radio station in Philadelphia. Though he has long lived in the Pennsylvania suburbs of Philadelphia, he has viewed the growth of high-end businesses in South Jersey with great interest.
"But there was nowhere for these people to advertise effectively," he said.
Mr. Hogan cited a stretch of car dealers along Route 73 in Burlington County. 
"They could go to Philadelphia Magazine and get their demographic, but they would be paying a lot for people in the western suburbs of Philadelphia who would never come to them," he said.
Or a jeweler. "If he wants to advertise a Rolex watch, he isn't likely to do it on local TV or a local newspaper," he said. "If he is in South Jersey, now he has a place to go."
The cover of the first magazine features Jeremy Roenick, a new Philadelphia Flyer and one of the magazine's 22 People to Watch in 2002 -- a tried-and-true device of regional magazines.
"That is no coincidence," said Mr. Hogan.
"The people at Philadelphia Magazine are pretty intelligent, and we intend to run with their game plan," he added. "We just want a different market. So we'll have people to watch in South Jersey and the best of South Jersey and so forth.
The links to Philadelphia Magazine -- one of the more successful of the country's slick regional monthlies -- run even deeper. Mr. Hogan tapped a former editor of Philadelphia Magazine, Maury Levy, who is now in the public relations business in South Jersey, to be editorial director of SJ Magazine.
"It seemed to make sense to me both editorially and in advertising," said Mr. Levy, who was director of new publications for Playboy before starting Levy Warren Marketing Media in Marlton. "Editorially, the otherwise local magazines pretty much covered South Jersey as an afterthought. Some of them, I noticed, even had the old area code, 609, in restaurant listings."
Turning conventional wisdom a bit on its ear, Mr. Levy said that the current recession might actually make this a good time to get businesses to advertise in a targeted publication like SJ Magazine.
"That jeweler may be cutting back a bit on his budget and, maybe, thinking about dropping TV," said Mr. Levy. "But if we can sell him this 113,000 families in upscale towns within a 30-minute drive of his store, we might be coming in at just the right time."
As for how much money investors have put up, Mr. Hogan would only say the amount was "substantial." And in these tight economic times, he said, "We think we have a success here" when the question was raised about just how long a ride he and his fellow investors were are in for.
Though the cover of SJ Magazine is glossy, its inside pages are on newsprint -- not quite a match for Philadelphia Magazine and New Jersey Monthly, which are all glossy. And while those magazines have a lot of soft features, they do often include investigative or critical articles. At this point, at least, SJ Magazine will not.
"I don't see us as the social conscience of South Jersey," Mr. Hogan said. "We aren't necessarily trying to right wrongs here, except insofar as South Jersey gets unfairly treated as opposed to North Jersey."
He pointed to a question-and-answer article featuring State Senator Diane Allen, a Republican from Burlington County, which quizzed her on how she was making South Jersey a priority in the Legislature.
Other articles in the 48-page first issue included a guide to wellness centers and health clubs in South Jersey, a story on Spirit Airlines and its service out of Atlantic City International Airport, a wine column and a restaurant guide. There is a price of $2.50 listed on the cover, but all 113,000 copies were mailed free to homes in the seven-town target area.
"When I came to South Jersey to live 30 years ago, there was a lot of open space and not much communal identity," Mr. Levy. "You lived in Haddonfield or Moorestown or whatever, and went to Philadelphia or New York. Now you eat well in Cherry Hill or you can buy a $580 pair of trousers at Hugo Boss in Mount Laurel. It is a different kind of place and people here identify with it."
"Now we complain about the traffic, which means we have a rich, growing community," he said with a chuckle.
For now, at least, Mr. Levy has put out the word: he wants short stories.
"I am not someone who says print is going away, but I admit I have less time to read newspapers and magazines than I used to," he said. "This will be something that stays around the house and you pick up for 10 minutes here and 15 minutes there to read something in it."
As for subject matter, Mr. Hogan said the publication would initially focus on the seven target towns before spreading out, particularly as people visit the seashore in the summer.
"We have to remember that we are here to localize advertising and content for people in this area, so we don't want to expand too quickly," he said. "But it is inevitable. South Jersey has been ignored and now, we feel, it is a pretty good place to be."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Turning conventional wisdom on its ear, one editor said the recession might make this a good time to get businesses to advertise in a targeted publication. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERIODICAL PUBLISHING (77%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); SALES & SELLING (73%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); SALES MANAGEMENT (68%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



806 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITIES; 
A Fight to Restore Cleanup Money

BYLINE:  By KIRSTY SUCATO

 BODY:
TWICE a year, Fair Lawn holds a litter cleanup day. A posse of about 15 volunteers boards the township minivan. They pluck a surprising number of beer cans from the edges of a highway off-ramp and by evening fill a two-ton dump truck with detritus of the disposable economy. All it costs the township is some cotton gardening gloves, garbage bags, a driver and the lunch tab at the Heights Deli. 
 Every town in New Jersey sponsors some kind of antilitter program, and it is no coincidence. The state Department of Environmental Protection gives municipalities from $4,000 to $300,000 a year to spend on litter control efforts under the Clean Communities Grant Program. The 15-year-old program is financed by a tax on litter-producing industries and generates about $14 million a year for towns and counties. Recipients love it because it is like gravy at budget time. 
 "In the scope of Fair Lawn's budget, $4,300 doesn't seem like a lot of money," said Ron Lottermann, the town's coordinator of the Clean Communities program. "But the council would not be giving me $4,300 to be doing these programs." 
But in a move that has left local officials baffled and disheartened, the Republican leadership of the State Assembly effectively killed the program this month by failing to vote on a bill to reauthorize it. The bill made it through committees in both houses of the Legislature but was quietly pulled from the Assembly's voting agenda on Jan. 7. Observers blame election-year politics in a climate in which supporting taxes of any kind is grounds for excoriation. 
Towns have begun an intensive lobbying effort, flooding lawmakers with hundreds of letters and resolutions. 
"If the revenue is lost, residents of the state of New Jersey will be the losers," said Helen Yeldell, a legislative analyst for the New Jersey State League of Municipalities. "We see this as property-tax relief because without this revenue source, municipalities cannot sustain this program." 
Even industries that pay the tax are arguing for its return. 
"Good public policy gave way to pretty poor politics," said James C. Morford, the chairman of the New Jersey Food Council, a trade organization for supermarkets. "We need to restore the program and try to make it very clear that this isn't just raising taxes. It's restoring a program that was funded by the businesses that sell the products that wind up in the litter stream." 
The reauthorization bill's main opponent, Assemblyman Guy R. Gregg, Republican of Long Valley, acknowledged that politics were partly to blame. 
"The major debate was to tax or not to tax," he said. "A number of members who may believe they have close races in the future say, 'Why would I want to end my no-tax pledge on a $13 million program?' " 
But Mr. Gregg, who owns a restaurant in Chester, said he had long opposed the program on philosophical grounds. It is clumsy, outdated and difficult to enforce, he said. High-end restaurants pay the tax at the same rate as fast-food places even though they generate less litter. Tire manufacturers pay too, despite strict recycling regulations that help prevent tires from ending up being dumped illegally. He stressed that he supported the Clean Communities Program itself and had sponsored a bill that would appropriate $13.3 million from the state's general budget to pay for the program. 
"It ended up being an issue of do we have to continue archaic programs or do we have to start this again and fix it the right way?" he said. "It is an excellent program, yes. I'm not going to say it's bad. But it should fall in line with the rest of the grant programs that we do." 
Discussions of this type leave some local officials perplexed. 
"I don't understand it, to be honest with you," said Harry W. Elton Jr., the mayor of Woodbury Heights in Gloucester County. The town has donated Clean Communities money money to Scout troops and to the sixth-grade class fund at its elementary school in exchange for the students' working to collect litter. "It's obviously a win-win for everybody," Mr. Elton said. "If the prior administration felt funding had to go somewhere else or had a specific target for the funding so be it, but it just seems like the Legislature just left it die." 
Mr. Lottermann of Fair Lawn said he was disheartened. 
"There are a lot of people in my position as clean communities coordinators, and for them to just pull it out because they want to play games or something else sort of defeats what all of us have worked for," he said. "Can the town live without me giving stuff away to promote the antilitter program? Sure they can. But at some point it's going to come back. Somebody's going to have to pay for the cleanup when it is washed into the storm drains and ends up in streams and oceans." 
Among its Clean Communities programs, Pemberton Township hires an entertainer to teach schoolchildren the value of recycling. Thalia C. Kay, the mayor, said taxpayers would be hurt most. Pemberton Township has received as much as $43,000 under the program, equivalent to half a penny on its municipal tax rate. 
"When we have to replace the money, it's going to be given to the taxpayer to pay," Mayor Kay said. "It has to be picked up by someone because people still want the service." 
But for now, local officials will have to wait for the newly sworn Legislature to begin meeting Jan. 31. 
Governor James E. McGreevey has not taken a public stance on the issue. 
"The governor is a strong supporter of recycling," said Richard A. Lee, a spokesman. "If it gets to his desk, he'll have to review it and make a determination at that time." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The state has given Fair Lawn $4,300 a year for litter cleanup, but may stop. (Don Standing for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (87%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); LOBBYING (75%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); TAX LAW (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); TAX RELIEF (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



807 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: MIDSTREAM; 
Practice Makes Perfect (and Poorer Parents)

BYLINE:  By JAMES SCHEMBARI; James Schembari is an editor at The Times. His column on the prime earning, spending and striving years appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: jimschem@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
HAS so little changed since Allan Sherman, the late comedic songwriter, recorded these lyrics in 1966 (sung to "Makin' Whoopee")?
My daughter, Linda, she takes ballet.
Her first recital was yesterday.
 She dropped her tutu, her left shoe, too. 
 She needs more lessons.
Then there's my daughter, Dottie,
She takes guitar, that's true.
Junior, he takes karate.
Smashed her guitar in two.
For all these lessons, I have to pay.
I must raise money. I found a way.
Read my brochure folks, learn how to be poor, folks.
I'm giving lessons.
Parents seem to have been as crazed then about training their children as baby boomers are now.
My three sons, ages 7 to 11, play on community baseball and T-ball teams and once played organized soccer and basketball. They have taken trumpet lessons and chess classes.
My daughter, Marian, 14, has been a member of the Brownies, has played the violin and is now taking piano lessons. She has also joined the drama department and the choir at her high school, a step that means buying costumes and show tickets. This spring, the choir is taking a $400 field trip to Virginia. Before Thanksgiving, she announced that she wanted to try out for the highly competitive regional chorus. I encouraged her.
"But if I'm going to make it, I need to take voice lessons," she said.
That was $40 a week for several weeks, but she made the cut, and her concert this month was a delight.
That explains, of course, why we say yes to our children. We want them to find their passion -- and what if they really are talented and just need a bit of coaching? So even before they go off to college, we've spent a fortune on them.
Actually, we may be a bit more obsessed about this than our parents were. According to 2000 figures from the Agriculture Department, which tracks family expenditures, parents with incomes of $38,000 to $64,000 spent $18,510 on miscellaneous items for the average child from birth through the age of 18. That is up from $17,600 in 1960, adjusted for inflation. The category includes entertainment, reading material, VCR's, summer camp and lessons. A study by Child Trends, a nonpartisan research group in Washington, found that about 82 percent of American children had participated in at least one extracurricular activity in 1999.
One? How about five or six? Bugs Peterschmidt, 44, of Plymouth, Minn., said her two children were involved in piano, trumpet, soccer, scouting, after-school math classes, swimming and summer enrichment programs. She said she was spending about $3,000 a year on all the activities.
"I was working part time, and once one of my paychecks went to all of this stuff," she said. "The whole thing. I was bummed."
Susan Kakuk, 42, also of Plymouth, said she was also spending about $3,000 a year on her two children. Barbara Carlson, 53, of Greenfield, Minn., put the total for her four children at a few thousand dollars. Mark Lino, an economist for the Agriculture Department, said parents found ways to pay for all of this.
"People seem to be purchasing more of this for their children since 1960," he said. "I think it is one of the reasons more women have joined the work force. Parents are also cutting back expenditures on themselves. They are not cutting back on their children; they are spending more on their children."
Kristin A. Moore, the president of Child Trends, said that there was a downside to all this. "They are good for children until you get past the midpoint and everyone is overwhelmed by the sheer quantity," she said. "At some point families can get too busy, but no one knows how much is too much."
SOME families know. Ms. Kakuk, Ms. Carlson and Ms. Peterschmidt all decided to slow down their children, asking them to drop some activities. They didn't cut back for economic reasons, but to have more time together as a family.
"Some families are taking like a sabbatical, not signing up for anything," Ms. Carlson said. "They are spending time together instead, like getting together and visiting grandparents. Before, they couldn't go because they had tournaments and competitions."
Ms. Kakuk goes over each activity with her children. "We look at the time commitments and see how that affects the family," she said. "My daughter wanted to be in competitive dance, but it was three to four nights a week and weekend competitions. We asked, 'How is this going to affect the family?' It was not just driving her there. There would be nobody home to help her brother with his schoolwork, and we wouldn't have dinner together. She really recognized that it isn't just her."
Now Ms. Kakuk's family has a special family night one day a week. They rotate the cooking chores (cheese sandwiches and canned pears were one child's menu), use the good china and spend the night hanging out together, doing things like playing games and reading.
"It's gotten to the point that if one of the kids gets an invitation, they say: 'No, I can't. That's family night,' " Ms. Kakuk said. "A year and a half ago they would have pleaded, 'Can I go?' Now they don't even question it. They value it so much."
Which shows that some financial issues are not about money at all.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (James O'Brien) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SONG WRITING (78%); TRENDS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (74%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); SOCCER (73%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (72%); BASEBALL (69%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); BASKETBALL (68%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (68%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); THANKSGIVING (51%) CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PERSONAL FINANCES 

PERSON: SCHEMBARI, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



808 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: BENEFITS 

 BODY:
 Building From the Mind Up

WEDNESDAY -- Gov. George E. Pataki is to speak about the role of universities in rebuilding downtown at a dinner at the Sheraton New York Hotel and Towers to aid New School University programs and its scholarship fund for those affected by the Sept. 11 attacks. Felix Rohatyn will be honored. Cocktails at 6:30 will be followed by dinner at 7:30. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 229-5958.

Thurman Munson Awards

THURSDAY -- Joe Torre, Don Mattingly and Robin Ventura are among the sports figures who will be honored at a dinner at the New York Marriott Marquis to aid the Association for the Help of Retarded Children. The evening begins at 6 with cocktails and a silent auction of sports memorabilia, with dinner at 7. Tickets, $500, from (212) 888-7003.

AIDS Hasn't Gone Away

THURSDAY -- R.E.M., Jewel and Sweet Honey in the Rock will be among those performing at a concert at Carnegie Hall to help the social services and AIDS education programs of Gay Men's Health Crisis. Whoopi Goldberg will be the host. The concert begins at 7:30; a cocktail reception with the artists is at 9:30. Tickets, $1,250, from (212) 245-6570, or $75 and up for the concert alone from (212) 247-7800.

Black Families, Black Art

THURSDAY -- A preview of the National Black Fine Art Show, at the Puck Building, will raise money for the New York Urban League and Jack & Jill of America Foundation, an African-American family organization that provides cultural, social, civic and recreational activities. The event begins at 6 with cocktails and hors d'oeuvres. Tickets, $100, from (212) 926-8000, ext. 55. Daily admission for the show, which is open to the public from Friday to next Sunday, is $12.

For Teachers and Training

THURSDAY -- A dinner at the Pierre will raise money for the Bank Street College of Education and its programs in public schools, including professional development for teachers and early childhood education training. Joan H. Weill and Sanford I. Weill will be awarded honorary doctoral degrees. Cocktails at 6 will be followed by dinner at 7. Tickets, $500, from (212) 961-3332.

Youth Fitness on West Side

THURSDAY -- A dinner at Tavern on the Green will raise money for the community youth programs of the West Side Y.M.C.A. Ronnie M. Eldridge, the former Councilwoman, will be among those honored, and Roz Abrams of will be the host. The black-tie evening begins at 6:30 with a cocktail reception; the awards and dinner will follow at 7:30. Tickets, $500, from (212) 997-0100.

Big Brothers, High Rollers

SATURDAY -- A black-tie evening of casino gambling at Bridgewaters, 11 Fulton Street (South Street Seaport), will raise money for the mentoring programs of Big Brothers Big Sisters of New York. Drinks, a buffet dinner, dancing and blackjack and other games, beginning at 9. Tickets, $125, from (212) 686-2042 or from www.bigsnyc.org/bigevents, or $150 at the door.

Starry Night for Juilliard

FEB. 4 -- Glenn Close, Michael Feinstein, Michael Hayden, Audra McDonald, Bernadette Peters and others will perform at the Juilliard School to support an endowed chair in its drama division. Julie Andrews and Christopher Plummer will be the hosts of the black-tie evening, which begins at 7 in the school's theater, 155 West 65th Street (Broadway). Mary Rodgers Guettel, a daughter of Richard Rodgers and former chairwoman of the school's board, will be honored. Dinner and dancing will follow at about 9 in a tent on the Paul Milstein Plaza at Lincoln Center. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 573-6933.

Producers Who Care

FEB. 4 -- Barry Manilow will perform and Matthew Broderick and Nathan Lane will be the hosts of a black-tie dinner at Cipriani 42nd Street to raise money for the American Foundation for AIDS Research. Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS will also benefit from the evening, which begins at 6:30 with cocktails. Dinner and the performance will follow at 8. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 806-1753.

Your Child's Art at the Met

FEB. 4 -- An evening for families to raise money for the Metropolitan Museum of Art will include an art quest -- hunting for specific works in the museum's galleries -- music for dancing and art projects for children. The evening begins at 5:30 with cocktails, hors d'oeuvres, refreshments for kids and the activities. Tickets, $100 for adults and $50 for children under 12, from (212) 570-3948.

Buckets to Drink To

FEB. 5 -- The final evening of a tabletop show, displaying 65 dining tables and Champagne buckets designed by Katie Brown, Patricia Field and other celebrities, designers and industry personalities, will raise money for the Design Industries Foundation Fighting AIDS. The black-tie gala, at the Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street (Ninth Avenue), begins at 6:30 with Champagne, with dinner at the tables at 7:30. Tickets, $300, or $50 for dessert and dancing after 9:30, from (212) 727-3100.

Paul Simon for Children

FEB. 5 -- Paul Simon, a founder of the Children's Health Fund, will perform at a dinner at the New York Marriott Marquis to aid the organization, which provides free medical care to poor and homeless children. Michael Keaton and Jane Pauley will be hosts. The evening begins at 6:30 with cocktails, with dinner at 7:30 and the performance. Tickets, $650, from (212) 997-0100.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); FAMILY (88%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (88%); TEACHER EDUCATION (87%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); SEX EDUCATION (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); AIDS & HIV (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); MEN (73%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (72%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); ATHLETES (70%); SPORTS (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); AUCTIONS (69%); MENTAL RETARDATION (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); MEN'S HEALTH (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION FOR THE HELP OF RETARDED CHILDREN (56%); GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



809 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CHELSEA; 
Fight Heats Up Again Over Grassy Bed of Rails

BYLINE:  By KELLY CROW

 BODY:
There has long been a hobo serenity to the High Line, an elevated rail bed with grassy patches and rusting tracks that snakes above 10th Avenue between 34th and Gansevoort Streets. Built in the 1930's to carry freight and unused since 1980, the High Line and its peaceful views reveal little of the decade-long fight over its fate.
 The latest battle started last month when Justice David B. Saxe of State Supreme Court lifted an order that had prevented the city and a group of Chelsea property owners from tearing down the structure, which they consider an unsafe eyesore. Others want to renovate the strip as a park. 
 "This is a terrific win for us," said Michael Lefkowitz, a lawyer for Edison Properties, one of 19 businesses that own land beneath the High Line. 
Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation, said an agreement to share the $11 million cost of dismantling the High Line was being circulated among the property owners and the rail bed's owner, CSX, of Richmond, Va. "It's about eliminating a public safety hazard," Ms. Patterson said, "but it's also about enabling the city to move forward and better develop the area."
Half the property owners have signed the agreement, she said. The city and CSX have not done so. A CSX spokesman, Robert Sullivan, said the company would not sign until everyone else had. If all parties sign, a 120-day waiting period is then required.
Robert Hammond, co-founder of a group called Friends of the High Line, hopes supporters have enough time to save it. A ruling is expected next month in a lawsuit the group has filed against the city, claiming the demolition plans violate the city's land-use review process. And on Feb. 6, the group is to release a study by the Design Trust for Public Space that gives ideas for raising $40 million and renovating the High Line as a park promenade. Advance galleys of the study were made available last week.
In a foreword to the study, written before he became mayor, Mr. Bloomberg said: "Today, on the West Side of Manhattan, we have an opportunity to create a great new public promenade on top of an out-of-use elevated rail viaduct called the High Line. This would provide much-needed green space for residents and visitors, and it would attract new businesses and residents, strengthing our economy. We know it can work . . . . I look forward to working with Friends of the High Line and other interested parties to develop a feasible reuse scenario." 
Former Mayor Giuliani favored demolition.
Last Friday, a mayoral spokeswoman said Mr. Bloomberg was still familiarizing himself with the issues. Daniel L. Doctoroff, deputy mayor for economic development, met Friday with Friends of the High Line.
"It's disappointing to see all this last-minute political maneuvering," Mr. Hammond said. "But we've still got a good case, and we're cautiously optimistic." KELLY CROW

GRAPHIC: Photo: The High Line, unused since 1980, snakes above 10th Avenue. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times) Map of Manhattan highlighting High Line.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); MAYORS (88%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LITIGATION (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CSX CORP (92%)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (92%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (92%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (92%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



810 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
The Rise of the Fee-Based Account

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
TERRY SANTINI sold almost 1,000 shares of stock from a traditional brokerage account last Tuesday, switching the proceeds into a professionally managed account. She'll now pay a 1.875 percent annual fee on the assets instead of a commission for each transaction.
 "When you have a good broker, she'll invest for your interest" rather than to generate a commission for herself, said Ms. Santini, an accountant in Davie, Fla., and one of a growing number of investors who find fee-based accounts appealing. 
 Although the trend reflects a Wall Street strategy to produce a steadier stream of revenue, some investors welcome the chance to pay fixed fees for a bundle of services, including buying and selling stocks and bonds. 
"They're looking to the fee-based side more than I've ever seen," said Darran Blake, Ms. Santini's investment adviser at Salomon Smith Barney, noting that nearly 40 percent of her business is in fee-based accounts, versus scarcely any in the mid-1990's. Ms. Santini has some of each kind. Neither she nor Ms. Santini would disclose the actual commissions she pays in her traditional accounts, though the one for the trade last week was less than $100.
Fee-based accounts, also known as asset-based accounts, are not for everyone. Investors whose portfolios contain bonds or mutual funds that remain undisturbed might not find them worth the money.
And someone who regards commission-free trading in a fee-based account as a license to become a hyperactive day trader will no doubt find practical limits to the privilege. Morgan Stanley, for example, warns customers that it reserves the right to cancel fee-based accounts if trading exceeds an unspecified range.
Nonetheless, there is no denying the appeal of fee-based accounts on principle. Many investors and brokers say fee-based structures largely align the interests of both parties. The broker, collecting a percentage of assets in the account, benefits most when the investor makes money, not when the investor can be persuaded to make a trade. Accounts managed on the premises by local brokers typically cost about 1 percent, while those run at a brokerage firm's headquarters or by outside money managers may cost up to 2 percent.
"We never want a client to question our advice by wondering what our motives were," said Peggy Ruhlin, a principal at Budros & Ruhlin, a fee-only financial planning and investment advisory firm in Columbus, Ohio.
Not surprisingly, larger investors get lower rates in asset-based accounts, as they do when charges are levied by the transaction. Comparisons are difficult because commissions are typically negotiated downward from a standard that itself is imprecise. A Merrill Lynch broker, for example, quoted a commission range of 1 to 2 percent of the value of a trade but added that it could be less than 1 percent for large transactions by active clients. And the bigger your account, the more hand-holding and other personal attention you can command. For those willing to forgo such amenities, Merrill charges as little as $29.95 for online trades, and other online brokers may charge even less.
FOR years, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the chief industry regulator, has advocated fee-based accounts for some investors. In 1995, the commission published a report by a panel appointed by Arthur Levitt Jr., then the S.E.C. chairman, urging fundamental changes in the way brokers are compensated. Included was a recommendation that at least a portion of pay be based on the amount of client assets managed, thereby curbing the incentive to "churn" accounts for no sound financial reason. The panel did not suggest appropriate percentages for fees.
"I have long been concerned that the industry's compensation practices may exaggerate the conflicts of interest between a broker and investor -- conflicts that may ultimately compromise the advice an investor receives," Mr. Levitt said then.
The five-member panel, headed by Daniel P. Tully, then chairman of Merrill Lynch, also urged firms to stop paying brokers more for peddling particular products or favoring in-house products. Moreover, it said they should avoid contests among employees and paying up-front recruitment bonuses for brokers who take customers loyal to them from firm to firm. 
Ms. Ruhlin said she did not know "how many Rolex watches and trips to Hawaii" she could have received by selling mutual funds if her company had not been fee-only.
The panel's recommendations were not binding, but some have taken hold.
Still, many investors will not benefit from accounts that require them to pay a percentage of assets, which can come to $2,000 a year or more on a $100,000 account. And if managed by others, the account may receive only "cloned" stock selection and little attention to tax consequences.
"Many times, a transaction account is the best," acknowledged Debra Jorgensen, a financial analyst and adviser in the San Francisco office of Merrill Lynch. "If it's cheaper, that's where we keep them."
One of Merrill's fee-based accounts is called Unlimited Advantage, which carries an annual charge for equities of 0.75 percent to 1.5 percent of assets, collected quarterly, and about 0.3 percent for bonds. Investment decisions are made by the investor, the broker or both.
Another account is Consults, run by money managers outside Merrill Lynch. It costs 0.85 percent to 2 percent for stocks and 0.6 percent to 1 percent for bonds, according to Ms. Jorgensen. Investors need $100,000 to qualify for either account.
One of the most aggressive promoters of fee-based accounts is UBS PaineWebber. As the year began, it started to charge its brokers a $12 fee for trades in accounts based on transactions, while paying them a bonus for fee-based transactions. Some brokers have objected, contending that fee-based accounts are inappropriate for many customers who make few trades. UBS PaineWebber also halted a longstanding practice in which brokers could cut commissions on transactions for clients, usually absorbing some of the discount themselves. 
Paul Marrone, a spokesman for PaineWebber, said brokers have been explaining the various accounts to clients. "Increasingly, clients are choosing fees as a way to pay for services," he said.
Many investors who are moving toward fee-based accounts were previously do-it-yourselfers when it came to investing. But two years of stock market declines have changed their approach. "A lot of people got hurt and now say they're too old or too tired and don't want the responsibility," said Ms. Blake of Salomon Smith Barney. "Everyone was a winner" for years, she added, but now "they're willing to pay a fee."
AT Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, a popular fee-based account is called Choice, which has a $50,000 minimum and costs 2.25 percent a year for the first $100,000 in stocks and 1 percent for mutual funds, bonds, variable annuities and even cash. The fee is at least $1,000 a year. The firm promises "virtually unlimited" commission-free trading, but there can be heavy penalties for closing the account.
Still, a fee-based account does not eliminate the possibility of a conflict between the interests of a broker and a customer.
While investors can be sure that a broker is not recommending the purchase of stock for the sake of a commission, they may not be clear about the motivation for advice that would affect the account's asset size, Ms. Ruhlin said.
"If a customer calls and says he decided to pay off the mortgage, he may wonder why I advise him not to," Ms. Ruhlin said. "To remove all conflict of interest is, I think, an impossibility."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Terry Santini, seated, with Jackie Palermo at their accounting firm. Ms. Santini is one of a rising number of investors paying annual percentage fees for brokerage accounts. (Cindy Karp for The New York Times) Chart: "An Investor's Options"Below is a sample of two price structures offered by Merrill Lynch brokers. Fees in both programs are negotiable depending on a client's relationship with the company. Merrill Lynch also offers online trading, with fees as low as $29.95 a trade. FEE-BASED Unlimited Advantage Program* ASSETS IN STOCKS: Up to $1 millionCHARGE ON EQUITIES: 1.50%FEE RANGE, PER YEAR: $1,500-$15,000 ASSETS IN STOCKS: $1 million to $5 millionCHARGE ON EQUITIES: 1.50% on first $1 million, 1.00% on next $4 millionFEE RANGE, PER YEAR: $15,000-$55,000 ASSETS IN STOCKS: $5 million to $10 millionCHARGE ON EQUITIES: 1.50% on first $1 million, 1.00% on next $4 million, 0.75% on next $5 millionFEE RANGE, PER YEAR: $55,000-$92,500 TRANSACTION-BASED NUMBER OF SHARES: 200SHARE PRICE: $30FEE PER TRADE: $149 NUMBER OF SHARES: 400SHARE PRICE: $50FEE PER TRADE: $342 NUMBER OF SHARES: 600SHARE PRICE: $40FEE PER TRADE: $396 *There is a minimum fee of $1,500 for services including a central account with unlimitedcheck writing, a Visa card and other benefits. (Source: Merrill Lynch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (76%); TRENDS (75%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: SANTITNI, TERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (71%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



811 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: KEW GARDENS; 
A Borough President's Goal: Dethroning the Queen of Queens

BYLINE:  By E. E. LIPPINCOTT

 BODY:
The note that sounded the end of her reign was quiet. Without pomp or circumstance, the new Queens borough president said that, as part of a redecoration of Borough Hall, a large mural featuring a portrait of Queen Catherine of Braganza would be removed.
 Catherine was no ordinary royal: married to King Charles II of England, she was a Portuguese princess whose family benefited from the slave trade and persecuted Jews in Europe. The borough was supposedly named for her. 
 Her portrait was one of a number of stained and battered murals installed by the administration of Donald Manes in the 1970's. Some were street scenes painted by children. But the section with Catherine contained professionally rendered highlights of the borough's history. The murals will be removed soon. Helen Marshall, the borough president, says she is not sorry to lose Catherine.
"When so many people are offended by something, I have to listen to my community," said Ms. Marshall, who is the daughter of Guyanese immigrants. "Catherine represents a dark past."
Behind the planned removal is a widespread, if contested, belief that Brooklyn, or Kings County, is named for Charles II and that Catherine, his wife, served the same role for Queens. Historians say these stories are unproven, but many residents of Queens say that, regardless, Catherine should not be a symbol of a borough that bubbles with cultural diversity.
Others disagreed, and the debate reached a height a few years ago when the Portuguese government proposed to help erect a statue of Catherine at Hunters Point, opposite the United Nations. Social activists, historians and others fought the project, which withered under the opposition. But there is little resistance to the dethroning of the portrait, and Ms. Marshall gave a reason. "Ninety percent of the people here didn't know who it was," she said. 
As for her redecoration of Borough Hall, Ms. Marshall says she's trying to be economical; perhaps a lick of paint and some cabinets and wall space for rotating exhibitions.
Jim Driscoll, vice president for history at the Queens Historical Society, won't miss the portrait either. 
"I never really understood the Catherine-Queens connection," he said. "She probably didn't even know Queens existed." E. E. LIPPINCOTT

GRAPHIC: Photos: Helen Marshall: No fan of Catherine. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times); Catherine of Braganza, a Portuguese princess. She represented "a dark past," the borough president said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HISTORY (89%); PAINTING (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (89%); SLAVERY (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) PORTUGAL (94%); ENGLAND (92%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



812 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Enron's Way: Pay Packages Foster Spin, Not Results

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
AS the stock plummeted, investors and employees alike were left with big losses. But one group of shareholders came out ahead -- management. Many board members and top executives managed to sell millions of dollars of shares before the big fall and still have something to show for the stock's once-lofty price.
 This is the story of Enron, of course, but it hardly ends there. Over the last two years, as the stock market has fallen about 30 percent from its peak, the description fits dozens of other companies as well. 
 For example, Roger G. Ackerman, the former chairman of Corning, sold $14 million of the company's stock last year, mostly when it was trading at about $57 a share, or seven times its current price. Donald R. Scifres, the co-chairman of JDS Uniphase, made $23 million selling company shares last year; the stock has lost nearly 90 percent of its value since January 2001. David R. Alvarez sold $14 million worth of stock in Providian Financial, where he is vice chairman, last year before the company acknowledged that its balance sheet wasn't quite what it was cracked up to be. The stock, which traded at $60 a share last summer, now trades at around $4.
Some of the biggest paydays have come at obscure companies that were once market darlings. John J. Moores, better known as the owner of the San Diego Padres baseball team, made $101 million last year selling shares of Peregrine Systems, on whose board he serves, before its shares fell by more than two-thirds. Richard Aube, a director at Capstone Turbine, made $51 million selling its stock last year, according to Thomson Financial. If you bought when he sold at around $30 a share, your investment would be showing an 80 percent loss now.
The contrast is obviously cringe-inducing. But it is more than that. Even when executives simply fail to live up to their own predictions -- rather than break the law, as some people suspect that Enron managers did -- the big insider paydays offer a good lesson in how economic incentives are askew in corporate America. 
Corporate spin aside, executives do not always prosper most by making their companies great. They can often profit more from creating unrealistic expectations than from delivering consistently impressive results.
Consider two companies. One has a stock price that has appreciated slowly, starting at $20 five years ago and gaining $2 a year, to $30 today. The second company's stock also started at $20 five years ago, then zoomed to $100 after a few years but has since fallen back to $20.
By any reasonable measure, the leaders of the first company have done a better job. Their share price has grown 50 percent, and they have avoided making grandiose predictions that cause Wall Street analysts to set silly targets. The second company has a stock that has underperformed a savings account over the long run, and scores of workers and investors have been burned by false hopes.
Yet if the top executives of both companies had received similar amounts of stock and both sold their shares on a regular schedule, the executives of the second company would actually be ahead. They would have made so much money selling the stock when it was trading near $100 that they would be multimillionaires despite the humbling decline.
THIS is the Enron model of pay for performance, and it has become common. Executives receive enormous grants of stock or options, saying they are simply aligning their own interests with those of their shareholders. But the packages are so generous that even a temporary rise in the share price, accompanied by the sale of a portion of an executive's stock, can leave him set for life. The appeal of overly aggressive accounting methods and manipulated earnings becomes obvious.
"You're providing C.E.O.'s with a perverse incentive," said Nell Minow, the editor of the Corporate Library, a research firm in Washington. "You're rewarding them for a goal that is not in the interest of long-term shareholders."
The executives who have made millions of dollars selling once-expensive shares say they have done nothing wrong. They simply followed a regular, legal schedule of selling stock, they say, and would be far richer if the stock price had not dropped.
All of that is usually true. But it is also true that when an economic system richly rewards certain behavior, no one should be surprised when that behavior becomes the norm. If you want to change it, you have to change the incentives. The Enron mess has the potential to focus people's attention on the complicated task of doing precisely that.

GRAPHIC: Chart shows annual changes in: S.& P. 500 indexAverage total pay of Fortune 200 chief executives for 1999-2001 (Sources: Pearl Meyer & Partners; Bloomberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); TRENDS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); BASEBALL (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); STOCK INDEX CHANGES (59%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (66%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (56%); CHASE CARD SERVICES INC (55%)

TICKER: JDU (TSX) (56%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



813 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Timothy P. Beyer And Paul H. Lundmark; 
USAA Balanced Strategy Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
THE stock market's rally late last year, combined with declining earnings for many companies, has made stocks less attractive, say Timothy P. Beyer and Paul H. Lundmark, co-managers of the $240 million USAA Balanced Strategy fund in San Antonio.
 As a result, 60 percent of the fund's assets are now in stocks, down from nearly 70 percent in December. The fund's prospectus permits stocks to range from 50 percent to 70 percent of the portfolio. 
 "After the post-Sept. 11 decline, the stock market had a tremendous run and we thought equity valuations relative to interest rates and bonds were too high," Mr. Lundmark said, so they sold some of their equity holdings. "We think the economy will recover in 2002, but the recovery is already priced into the market." 
The fund returned 7.7 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, versus 2 percent for all domestic hybrid funds, which own a mix of stocks and bonds, and a loss of 1.4 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500, according to Morningstar Inc. It returned 3.7 percent in the last 12 months, versus losses of 6 percent for its group and 15.9 percent for the S.& P.
Mr. Beyer, 35, who also runs the $45 million USAA Value Fund, picks most of the 75 or so stocks in Balanced Strategy from United States companies with market capitalizations of more than $3 billion. "We have a value bias," Mr. Beyer said. "We try to buy good companies when they go on sale."
He prefers companies with high returns on capital and equity -- and with significant free cash flow. He also looks at projected earnings, earnings growth and dividends, as well as earnings volatility and debt.
Mr. Lundmark, 41, chooses the 55 or so bonds in the fund from among Treasury, government agency and corporate issues, as well as mortgage- and asset-backed bonds. He also manages the USAA Short-Term and Intermediate-Term bond funds, and the bonds in the USAA Growth Strategy fund.
He is finding value among corporate bonds, which account for 70 percent of the bond stake of Balanced Strategy. The yields on many corporate bonds are high now, compared with those for Treasuries. Bonds in the portfolio have an average yield of 6.5 percent. "We're in a recession, and you've seen a lot of companies downgraded," he said. "So there's a lot of opportunity there."
He invested 23 percent of the bond stake in collateralized mortgage obligations, mortgage-backed bonds divided into pools with different risk characteristics. In general, homeowners tend to prepay mortgages as interest rates fall, forcing mortgage holders to reinvest principal at lower rates. Mr. Lundmark buys pools that have been set up to minimize the risk of prepayment, giving up some yield in favor of stable cash flows.
For the stock side of the portfolio, Mr. Beyer has bought shares of B J's Wholesale Club, based in Natick, Mass. He says that B J's and its two major rivals, Sam's and Costco, are all solid businesses with excellent return on capital but that B J's shares are the most reasonably priced. He paid $42.26 a share on Jan. 3; they now trade at $44.35. He said B J's trades for about 18 times 2002 estimated earnings versus a multiple of 29 for Costco. 
"It's substantially cheaper than Costco and I think it's just as good a business," Mr. Beyer said. He expects earnings to grow 15 percent a year over the next two years.
He bought shares of Kraft Foods at $30.30 in August, shortly after its initial public offering, which was priced at $31. It now trades at $34. Kraft's strong brands should hold up well in a lackluster economic recovery, Mr. Beyer said, and the company has a solid balance sheet. He said shares trade for 17 times estimated 2002 cash earnings, a 20 percent discount to the S.& P. 500.
"That valuation makes no sense to me," he said. "The company has less risk than the average S.& P. company and at least equal earnings growth prospects." He forecasts average annual cash earnings growth of 13 percent over the next two years.
Mr. Lundmark likes the bonds of the Pactiv Corporation, a packaging concern based in Lake Forest, Ill. In February 2000, he bought 7.2 percent coupon bonds due in December 2005 at $94.11 each. On Friday, they closed at $103.37. The bonds are rated BBB- by S.& P., the lowest investment grade rating. He is holding the bonds because of their yield. 
"Management is very focused on improving operations and maintaining an investment grade rating," he said, partly by using increasing cash flow to reduce debt.

GRAPHIC: Photo: USAA Balanced Strategy, run by Timothy P. Beyer, left, and Paul H. Lundmark, has cut its stock allocation. (J. Michael Short for The New York Times) Chart: "USAA Balanced Strategy"Category: Domestic hybridNet assets: $240 millionInception: September 1995Managers: Timothy P. Beyer since December 2000. Paul H. Lundmark since inception.Minimum purchase: ($250 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 81%3-year annualized return through Thursday: 7.7%Category average: 2.0% Sector breakdown Computers: 8%Telecommunications: 7%Financial: 7%Energy: 6%Other: 23%Bonds: 40%Health care: 9% Fees Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 1.34% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BOND FUNDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); RECESSION (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (66%); ASSET BACKED SECURITIES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: USAA BALANCED STRATEGY FUND 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

PERSON: BEYER, TIMOTHY P.; LUNDMARK, PAUL H. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



814 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
For a TheaterChain, A Revival May Be Near

BYLINE:  By JOANNE LEGOMSKY

 BODY:
AFTER years of overbuilding that left many movie theater companies reeling, some analysts and money managers say it may again be time to invest in the industry.
 With almost $1.3 billion in revenue and more than 2,800 screens, AMC Entertainment is high on many analysts' lists as the only big public theater operating company that has avoided major financial problems. 
 In the last several years, much of the theater industry ran into trouble by borrowing heavily to build plush new theaters. Many once-luminous names went into bankruptcy, including Regal Cinemas, based in Knoxville, Tenn., the nation's largest theater chain with more than 4,000 screens; the United Artists Theater Company, Loews Cineplex Entertainment; and Edwards Theaters Circuit. Regal is about to emerge from bankruptcy, and Edwards and United Artists Theater already have. 
By contrast, AMC Entertainment has benefited from operating improvements and recent box-office success, and is well positioned if a recovery materializes, some analysts say. Its shares recently closed at $10.75, up from less than $3 in late 2000, although well below the $29 they fetched in 1998. 
Bulls on the industry are pinning their hopes on an anticipated reduction in movie screens as the industry consolidates. The building binge of the late 1990's replaced smaller theaters with megaplexes, leading to the current glut. These behemoths, with as many as 20 to 30 screens and amenities like stadium seating, cut into attendance at older properties. 
Stuart M. Linde, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, projected that more than 3,100 screens in the United States, or 9 percent, would close by 2003, reducing the total to 32,527. In his opinion, the decline would especially help companies like AMC Entertainment, which is closing relatively few screens.
"This is a fixed-cost business," Mr. Linde said. "So even if overall attendance is flat, with fewer screens, attendance per screen goes up." 
But he estimates that movie attendance in general will grow 2.7 percent a year, on average, from 2000 to 2003. That means that a 9 percent decline in screens would translate into a 19 percent gain in attendance per screen. 
Indeed, the release schedule this year should benefit from several big films, he said, including "Star Wars" and "Hannibal" prequels and a sequel to "The Lord of the Rings." He forecasts increases in admission prices of 2.5 percent a year, on average, for the next few years, producing box-office revenue growth of 5.3 percent annually, to just under $9 billion in 2003.
Of course, investment in the industry involves substantial risk. Box-office success is hard to predict, and a slower-than-expected reduction in screens would jeopardize the industry's recovery. Much depends on how quickly ailing theater chains complete their financial restructuring and dispose of unwanted theaters. 
When the industry recovers, AMC Entertainment, based in Kansas City, Mo., may be the chain in the best position, said Bernal J. Vargas III, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, though he cautioned that a recovery was at least six months away.
He projected that AMC would have cash flow of $150 million for fiscal year 2002, which ends in March 2003, up 12 percent, and $165 million for fiscal year 2003, up 10 percent. Analysts say the chain should benefit from its investment in new theaters. Some 70 percent of the company's screens are in the megaplex format, which is more popular with moviegoers. That is more than double the level industrywide. 
The company also benefits from building theaters in high-traffic places like shopping centers and from concentrating on the most heavily populated markets. Its box-office revenue per screen averaged $264,000 for fiscal year 2000, 12 percent above its closest competitor, Mr. Linde of Lehman said. 
The company's balance sheet improved considerably after a $250 million equity infusion last April from Apollo Management L.P., an investment group
Cliff Greenberg, manager of the Baron Small Cap fund, which owns AMC Entertainment shares, said the company's solid finances would permit the company to acquire distressed competitors. "Our thesis is that the industry turmoil would work to the advantage of the stronger players," Mr. Greenberg said. 
MR. LINDE said he thought the shares could reach $16 within six months, or nine times estimated fiscal year 2003 cash flow. Mr. Vargas of Goldman said he believed that the shares could trade in the $17-to-$18 range over the next year. 
Still, Bishop Cheen, an analyst at Wachovia Securities, said that as "the poster child for the expensive multiplex," AMC epitomized the industry's strengths and weaknesses. 
"Megaplexes are fabulous servants in a strong box-office environment," he said. "But they're terrible masters when box office is weak."

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the weekly closing prices of AMC Entertainment. Graph shows shares for the year (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE THEATERS (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE REVENUES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); THEATER (58%); THEATER COMPANIES (58%) MOTION PICTURES AND VIDEOS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: AMC ENTERTAINMENT INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMC ENTERTAINMENT INC (AEN) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512131 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS (EXCEPT DRIVE-INS) (58%); SIC7832 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS, EXCEPT DRIVE-IN (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%) SIC7832 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (57%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



815 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1974 words

HEADLINE: The Trunk Show: Designers Take a Road Trip 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH HAYT

DATELINE: NAPLES, Fla. 

 BODY:
IT was perfect tennis weather at 11 a.m. on a recent Thursday, 80 degrees and sunny, but at Saks Fifth Avenue a dressing room was hard to come by. The Bill Blass spring 2002 trunk show was in town, with 62 sample dresses, suits and evening gowns, priced from $1,600 to $20,000, hanging on racks. A white-gloved waiter passed flutes of Champagne while sylphlike models in billowy ensembles shifted from one stiletto to the other, flamingo-style. 
 Lars Nilsson, a Swede given to banker's pinstripes and professorial eyeglasses, who took over the Bill Blass label last February, was selling his collection, one customer at a time. 
 "Try it with the petticoat to give that little picnic look," he told Elizabeth Star, handing over a red silk petticoat that she slipped on beneath a linen dress with awning stripes. 
"If I invest in this," Ms. Star said, "no one else can have it in Naples. It's a small town." She wanted to avoid anything like a repeat of a scandalous incident two years ago, when two women appeared in the same gown at a charity gala. 
"The store is keeping track of these things," Mr. Nilsson assured her.
Sue Lennane, who had canceled a trip to New Orleans to attend the trunk show, added her name to an order list, having decided on a gray flannel suit and platinum sequined slacks. "I buy 80 percent of my wardrobe at trunk shows," she said. "I get to see everything first."
Attention, trunk show shoppers: whether you live in Naples, New York City or Bala Cynwyd, Pa., stores and designers love you. They recognize that women who attend trunk shows are fashion-besotted, the kind of customers who follow runway news months before the clothes hit stores, and come in with checklists of must-haves. 
And of course, they pay full retail. 
"Customers are well versed; they print out Style.com," said the designer Michael Kors, who conducted a trunk show last week in Boca Raton, Fla. "We have a good customer in San Francisco. Last fall, she thought she had seen a shearling coat on the runway. She had bought a house in Idaho and wanted to wear it. She went to the trunk show in San Francisco and didn't see it because the sample was out on a shoot. She rearranged her schedule to come to New York to the trunk show, where she ended up buying it."
Contrary to popular perception, the shows are not invitation-only. Anyone can attend -- announcements are mailed to stores' regular customers and sometimes supplemented by newspaper advertisements. Despite the name, no trunks are involved; designers' goods are displayed on racks, although the idea is much the same as when the Parisian couturier Paul Poiret toured Europe in 1911, visiting department stores with trunks of dresses that he displayed on mannequins. He invented the trunk show, said Alexandra Palmer, costume curator at the Royal Ontario Museum. 
While the retail market in general is slouching toward a future of mass markdowns, trunk shows exhibit no signs of a slump. Because everything is full price, they attract people with money, and people with money have been immune so far to this recession, merchants say. By most reports, trunk show customers have bounced back from any hesitation engendered by the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11.
"Even in this difficult season, the trunk show and special-order business has continued to grow," said Ann Stordahl, senior vice president and general merchandise manager for women's apparel at Neiman Marcus. "The customer tends to be in our top level, and we didn't see any pullback with that customer."
For the fall and cruise collections sold last year, Neiman had a high double-digit increase in sales from its trunk shows compared with 2000. The Yves Saint Laurent boutique in New York recorded $1.1 million in spring trunk show orders, a 10 percent increase over its show for fall 2001. In early January, shoppers braved a wet snowstorm to visit the Chanel boutique on East 57th Street in Midtown in soggy mink coats and salt-stained leather boots, ordering $1 million of spring clothes and accessories.
Trunk shows drive 30 to 40 percent of Badgley Mischka's business. "Some of our biggest trunk shows are in Seattle and San Francisco," said Mark Badgley, who along with James Mischka designs for the label. "Some of our most elegant ones are in Detroit. We do big ones in New York, but in other communities they are more appreciative because they don't have the selection. There are women out there with a Ph.D. in trunk shows."
Suave salesmanship -- sometimes from the designer in person -- and the illusion of exclusivity help to move the merchandise. At the Saint Laurent show in New York, a sales associate told one shopper that a brown baby buffalo leather jacket, pierced and trimmed with tiny brass rings, was a steal at $2,995, and that only a few were available. A Vogue editor had already reserved one, the salesman let slip. The store received 48 orders.
"A trunk show is a chance to convince a client that if you don't buy it right now, you will never see anything so beautiful again," Boaz Mazor, a sales executive for Oscar de la Renta, said. 
The smooth talk seems to work. Sixty percent of de la Renta's business comes from trunk shows. The company staged 162 around the country in 2001, three more than the previous year. Mr. de la Renta said that he had once known half the customers at his trunk shows at Bergdorf Goodman, but that last year he did not recognize a single woman -- a sign that a new generation has discovered the trunk show and his label. 
"She is not typical of the traditional customer," Mr. de la Renta said. "She is a professional, a psychologist or an executive. She will buy things that are more daring and extreme. You are dealing with a consumer who feels so much stronger about herself. You might have a fantastic top and suggest a pair of pants to them. They will say, 'No, I'm going to wear it with A/X jeans.' They are not bashful about how they will wear the item."
Trunk shows bring many customers a little closer to the experience of shopping directly from the runway. After the fall and spring catwalk shows, buyers and store owners view entire collections in designers' showrooms, either in New York or Europe. They make their selections based on what they think will sell well to their customers (bright colors for the South, neutrals for New York). But the merchandise is never shipped all at once.
The trunk show allows customers to view the breadth of a collection, and to see it weeks or months before garments arrive on the sales floor. (Trunk shows for spring clothing begin in October and extend through February; fall trunk shows start in April and continue through the summer.) 
While many retailers maintain that trunk shows are profitable because there is a guaranteed taker for clothes at full price, that is not always the case. Department stores like Saks, Bergdorf Goodman and Neiman Marcus do not require prepayment for most orders, so if a customer never claims what she ordered, the store must place it on the racks and hope to sell it to someone else. To protect themselves, some smaller stores and specialty boutiques demand a deposit, which the shopper forfeits if she does not take the order -- a situation that can make for trying customer relations.
For these reasons, Jeffrey Kalinsky, the owner of Jeffrey in New York and Atlanta, refuses to hold trunk shows. "I feel that asking for a deposit is taking advantage of the customer, and if you don't, you are taking a huge financial risk," Mr. Kalinsky said. "A lot of clients get caught up in the frenzy of the trunk show. It takes two to four months for the items to come in, and then they might not want them because they have been shopping between the time of the trunk show and the arrival of the merchandise. It is up to the salesperson to sell it for a second time."
"From my experience, a lot of trunk show business is phony business," he continued. "The client is being urged to say, 'Oh, I want it,' and then the store can say, 'Oh, I did this much trunk show business.' Then the piece comes in, and no one can enforce that the customer is going to take it. Or, sometimes a piece won't even make it to the store. As a merchant, I want to sell what is already in my store." 
But the risk that high-priced clothes will go unsold is one most stores are willing to take. Robert Burke, the fashion director of Bergdorf Goodman, cited the example of a ruched black cotton blouse from Yves Saint Laurent, designed by Tom Ford for fall 2001, which was priced at $2,595. After seeing it on the runway, Bergdorf ordered five. Then at a trunk show in May, customers clamored for the blouse; 20 placed their names in an order book, with no money down. Expecting that not all would follow through, the store ordered nine of the blouses, for a total of 14. The store sold 12.
"Our customer travels a lot, has a few homes and doesn't know if she will be in town when the merchandise gets in," he said. "The only way to be sure to get it is to preorder it through a trunk show." The store holds 85 trunk shows of ready-to-wear a season, plus 105 trunk shows for jewelry and cosmetics.
While one might expect that designers, many of whom are now celebrities, might resent the time it takes to appear at trunk shows -- not to mention having to push their clothes like lowly floor help -- a number plunge right in. 
Josh Patner, who, with Byran Bradley, designs for Tuleh, relishes trunk shows for the feedback from customers. "Trunk shows are the most important market research a designer can do," he said. "A customer will tell you what she needs and has too much of. Collars too high! Button loop too short! Colors too harsh! We hear it all. I don't think you can be a good designer and not do trunk shows because if you don't, you are only concerned with the runway and not with the women who are paying for the clothes. It's like a chef who never tastes his own food."

Coming to a Store Near You
Here are some scheduled trunk shows of designers' collections for Spring 2002.

GIORGIO ARMANI -- Feb. 5, Saks Fifth Avenue, Chevy Chase, Md.; Feb. 11-12, Saks Fifth Avenue, New York City.

BADGLEY MISCHKA -- Jan. 29-30, Neiman Marcus, Las Vegas; Jan. 30-31, Choices, Philadelphia; Feb. 12-13, Saks Fifth Avenue, Boca Raton, Fla.; Feb. 15-16, Stanley Korshak, Dallas.

BILL BLASS -- Jan. 28-29, Saks Fifth Avenue, Portland, Ore.; Feb. 4-5, Saks Fifth Avenue, Birmingham, Ala.; Feb. 7-8, Jacobson's, Palm Beach, Fla.; Feb. 12-13, Saks Fifth Avenue, Greenwich, Conn.

ROBERTO CAVALLI -- Feb. 8, Nordstrom, Costa Mesa, Calif.

CHANEL -- Feb. 18-19, Saks Fifth Avenue, Troy, Mich.; Feb. 11-12, Bergdorf Goodman, New York City; Feb. 28-March 1, Saks Fifth Avenue, Beverly Hills, Calif.

CHRISTIAN DIOR -- Jan. 31, Hirshleifer's, Manhasset, N.Y.; Feb. 4-5, Bergdorf Goodman, New York City.

GUCCI -- At Gucci boutiques: Feb. 5-6, Fairfax, Va.; Feb. 8-9, Chicago; Feb. 12-13, Atlanta; Feb. 15-16, Boston; Feb. 17-18, Aspen, Colo.

CAROLINA HERRERA -- Jan. 28-Feb. 1, Jamie, Nashville, Tenn.; Jan. 28-29, Nina Raynor, Del Ray Beach, Fla.

MARC JACOBS -- Jan. 29, Bergdorf Goodman, New York City.

LAMBERTSON TRUEX -- Feb. 19, Bergdorf Goodman, New York City; March 2, Neiman Marcus, Palm Beach, Fla.

MARY McFADDEN -- Feb. 6-7, Coplon's, Naples, Fla.; Feb. 26-27, Coplon's, Charlotte, N.C.

MICHAEL KORS -- Jan. 30-31, Neiman Marcus, Tyson's Corner, Va.

OSCAR DE LA RENTA -- Jan. 28-29, Saks Fifth Avenue, Boca Raton, Fla.; Jan. 30, Saks Fifth Avenue, Bal Harbour, Fla.; Feb. 4-6, Saks Fifth Avenue, Beverly Hills; Feb. 7-8, Neiman Marcus, San Diego, Calif.

YVES SAINT LAURENT -- Feb. 4-5, Saks Fifth Avenue, New York City; Feb. 7-8, Saks Fifth Avenue, Beverly Hills.

VERSACE -- Feb. 7-9, Versace Boutique, New York City.

VERA WANG -- Jan.31-Feb. 2, Vera Wang Bridal House, New York City (bridal); Feb. 14, Saks Fifth Avenue, New York City (ready to wear).

GRAPHIC: Photos: MAY I HELP YOU? -- Lars Nilsson, the designer, right, assists a customer, Elizabeth Star, foreground, at a trunk show. (Dan Wagner for The New York Times); LOOKING AHEAD -- Ellen Wolf, right, clad for winter, considers spring fashions worn by a model at a trunk show at Chanel's 57th Street boutique. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. 1); FORTIFICATION -- Champagne awaits a customer at Chanel's trunk show. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (78%); HAUTE COUTURE (77%); FASHION SHOWS (77%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (76%); CHARITIES (70%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (87%); LOUISIANA, USA (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



816 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: FORDHAM -- BUZZ; 
Fears Aside, People Want A Chance to Move the Mail

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE O'DONNELL

 BODY:
 THE SETTING -- The auditorium of the Fordham branch of the New York Public Library, a community room that seats about 40 people comfortably at round tables. The crowd: about 60. The topic: "How to Get a Job With the U.S. Postal Service." The paperwork, as placed on each chair: plenty. The host: Guillermina Colon, a Hispanic programs specialist with the Postal Service.

THE BUZZ -- Ms. Colon, petite and dressed in a gray suit and a spandex top, introduced herself promptly at 2 p.m., only to suffer a flurry of latecomers. "Guys, I'm sorry that they're interrupting," she told the group as she scurried about trying to find more chairs and paperwork.
 It was the sixth such seminar in the city since the summer, and attendance had swelled to 120 at previous sessions. Interest in working for the Postal Service in a tightening economy appeared immune to threats of anthrax, not to mention rain, heat, snow and gloom of night. On this day, librarians turned away more latecomers as chairs ran out. The large turnout filled one with a wild hope that the long lines at city post offices could soon disappear.
Alas. The jobs Ms. Colon was publicizing were carrier positions in New Jersey. Freehold, Dover, Toms River, Basking Ridge. ZIP codes 10077, 10078, 10087, 10079. The room in the Bronx (10068) buzzed with disappointment. "If we don't have a car, how do we get there to apply?" a woman asked.
"The question is, if you don't have a car, how do you get there," Ms. Colon said. She suggested the train, and the idea of a job in central New Jersey stayed alive.
To get a job with the Postal Service, an applicant must take an oral, written and physical test. An applicant's score is stored in a Postal Service computer, Ms. Colon said, and every time one wished to apply at another branch one must retake the test.
A hand in the back of the room shot up. "What is the purpose of taking the test twice?" boomed a woman in a black hat and down jacket. "They want to see how smart you are in another borough?" The room broke into laughter.
"The question is. . . ." 
"They can hear me."
". . . why you need to take the test each time," Ms. Colon finished. Her eyes widened and she enunciated carefully: "It's to your benefit to take the test as many times as you can, to practice and get the highest score possible. The highest score gets the job." This inspired many other questions about the score already stored in the computer, but Ms. Colon stood by her original answer.
(A spokeswoman for the Postal Service said lists of test scores are stored not by branch but by postal district. She added that many carrier jobs are, in fact, now available in the Bronx.) 
Ms. Colon warned them about the physical test: lifting 65 pounds. "Ladies, you've done this before, going up the stairs to the train, carrying shopping bags and the stroller," she said. 
Ms. Colon shared some parting wisdom. "Be on time," she said. "And do your work." MICHELLE O'DONNELL

GRAPHIC: Photos: Neither gloom nor anthrax deterred job seekers at a session on getting work at the Post Office, run by Guillermina Colon, right. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); LIBRARIES (78%); LIBRARIANS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



817 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: ON THE JOB; 
Expense-Wise, Maybe, but Morale-Foolish

BYLINE:  By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
Hard times have brought hard measures. Rare is the company that isn't looking on every line of every budget to nip one expense here or another there. No outlay seems too small to overlook, no perk too sacred to be spared.
 "For years, the company I work for has provided free coffee, tea and hot chocolate to all employees," Eric Spies writes in an e-mail message, and free plastic foam cups have always been part of the deal. 
 "A few months ago, a manager decided to end the supply of free cups," he said. "Instead, employees would need to supply their own, for a cost savings of $3,000."
"The day the new policy was announced," Mr. Spies said, "two issues were pointed out to the manager." The cost saving actually amounted to only $500 a year -- and he would have to wash his own cup.
"The policy," Mr. Spies writes, "was retracted the following business day."
Peter Biro, a principal in a mergers-and-acquisitions consulting firm in Palo Alto, Calif., recalls the two years he spent at a "once highflying" Silicon Valley dot-com.
"We spent lavishly on getaways for salespeople, new office facilities and, of course, investment banking fees on any number of transactions," he writes. "By the spring of 2001, we knew that the economy had turned against us and prepared ourselves for the inevitable waves of cost-cutting.
"In addition to slicing jobs and restricting travel, management decided that symbolic gestures toward austerity were in order. The results? The price of soda in company machines went from 25 cents to 35 cents, thus husbanding an additional few thousand a week against a monthly burn rate of a few hundred million.
"Reimbursement for any purchase, including paper clips and pens, became impossible without a senior vice president's signature. Water coolers sat idle with no water bottles, since no one could buy those anymore. To add insult to injury, many of the lights were out much of the time to conserve power during California's crisis. The effect on morale was predictable."
Just think of the savings that companies could realize if they whittled away at paid vacations. A retired project manager who lives in East Brunswick, N.J., says he knows of a communications company that did just that.
Until the end of 2001, this company, where he was once employed, awarded workers with more than 15 years of service a total of 32 days of vacation, which accumulated on a quarterly basis over the year. That total was decided years earlier, when sick days, optional holidays and vacation time were merged into a single vacation category.
But for 2002, the retired manager writes, the company dropped the word "vacation" and created "comprehensive leave time," which is accrued hourly. Employees with 10 or more years of service earn 0.0923 hours of leave time for each hour of work, with a maximum of 24 days a year. In a company that reduced its work force by about 25 percent last year, cutting 2,000 jobs and anticipating more reductions this year, people who are laid off are no longer paid for unearned vacation.
In addition, the company has eliminated sick days. Time out for illness before state-mandated disability begins is charged against accrued comprehensive leave time.
The retired manager writes, "Needless to say, these and other changes have much of the staff watching the market recovery and planning a career change."
"Our office has always been diligent in trimming excess expenses for supplies, but following the events of Sept. 11, particularly so," writes Elise Lee of Carmel, N.Y., an administrative assistant for an investment banking company in Manhattan.
"The anthrax alert sent all the support staff scurrying for means of protection to handle daily mail deliveries. Our receptionist, who sorts mail for a staff of 40, was most visibly shaken. 
"I suggested a box of cheap disposable plastic gloves. She said, 'I have to submit a special request to the manager, because I was told there was one box in the back that we all need to share.' "
Ms. Lee said, "Why not buy your own?"
But the woman declined, saying something about it being the company's responsibility.
Ms. Lee says, "Though the glove for prevention was not worth a pound for the cure, the firm finally splurged, and she received her very own disposables several days later."
Of course, the gloomy side of the business cycle is nothing new. Will Hall of Springvale, Me., a retired research scientist for a chemical company, recalls a time in the early 1980's when a vice president called a meeting of underlings to announce in harsh tones that there would be no more bonuses.
Mr. Hall writes: "He made it clear several times that 'the word bonus is no longer in your vocabulary.' Instead, there would be a new word, 'gift,' an award given only to those few who earned it by way of extraordinary accomplishments. Simply doing one's job would not merit a gift.
"The following year, a new subordinate manager called another meeting, which was attended by the vice president. The new manager went on in encouraging terms to describe a bonus which would be given to everyone and be based on years of service. The banished word 'bonus' came up numerous times during the next hour. Finally, questions were called for, but none were asked.
"I couldn't resist breaking the silence by asking, 'Is the bonus in addition to our gift?' The vice president, visibly angry, ground out his words one by one: 'The bonus is your gift.' "

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MERGERS (72%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SICK LEAVE (66%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (60%); INVESTMENT BANKING (50%) LABOR 

PERSON: VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (87%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



818 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1943 words

HEADLINE: A Global Icon Retools For Meaner Streets 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM with LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
TO show support for New York in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Klaus Schwab, the founder of the World Economic Forum, moved his annual jamboree here this year from its traditional home in Davos, Switzerland.
 But the sojourn of the forum -- an unparalleled gathering of world leaders, celebrity chief executives, academics, writers and other movers and shakers that begins on Thursday -- from the quiet ski resort perched on the slopes of the Alps to the mean streets of Manhattan also mirrors a sharp shift in the global psyche. 
 Holding the forum in Davos, a secluded playground for European vacationers and, on occasion, the idle rich, would have sent the wrong message. Not only has globalization been cast by terrorists as the cause of many ills, but also it may be the culprit behind the synchronized slowdown of the world economy, the first global downturn since the oil crisis of the 1970's. 
"More than anything else, the issues discussed this year will be addressed more somberly," said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International. "I think when historians look at the 1990's, they will look at it as a period of irrational exuberance in many respects. The cold war was over. Western economies grew at a rapid rate. Stock markets were doing extremely well. And there was a feeling almost of invulnerability. A new sense of realism has descended on us, and we realize we're all in peril."
From its inception 31 years ago, when 440 people attended and almost no one noticed, to now, when thousands participate and thousands more wish they had been invited, the forum has become an icon of globalization for both its admirers and the legions of detractors who decry its embrace of free trade, deregulation and market capitalism.
The protests against the forum have actually enhanced its credibility, although they have never approached the scale and fury of those that derailed the World Trade Organization's meetings in Seattle in 1999 and in Genoa, Italy, last year.
Davos was difficult to get to and to infiltrate; Manhattan is not. But many protesters say they will be staying away, afraid that any confrontation with the New York City police, who have become heroes since the September attacks, would damage their image. "Don't get me wrong, I am extremely supportive of the people who will be protesting in New York," said John Sellers, executive director of the Ruckus Society, a human rights group in San Francisco that has helped organize protests against global trade. "But I don't trust the media to make us look anything but ugly and unreasonable, particularly when we'd be standing across the barricades from New York's finest, the heroes of Sept. 11."
Instead, Mr. Sellers and others will head for an "anti" forum, the World Social Forum, to be held at the same time as its economic nemesis but in Porto Alegre, Brazil. Its organizers expect as many as 50,000 people to attend. 
Thanks to Mr. Schwab's canny sense of what makes for a good mix of people, however, some of the protesters will be working both sides of the barricade. In recognition of the antiglobalization protests, and to enliven five days of forum sessions on television, the Swiss impresario has reached out to people like Sara Horowitz, executive director of Working Today, and Peter Brey, secretary general of the Terre des Hommes Foundation, whose groups push for labor rights, better schools, health care and other social benefits in third-world countries.
Reflecting the sweeping, often touchy-feely aspect of many sessions, Ms. Horowitz said, "One panel I am on is about religion and what is the mission behind social entrepreneurial efforts, and how you inject moral values into what we all do."
Like Mr. Brey, she will shift between the panel sessions at the Waldorf-Astoria and the protests on Park Avenue outside.
The forum is unlike the other targets of protesters -- the International Monetary Fund, for example, and the World Bank -- in that its role as a private policy broker is overshadowed by its appearance. To outsiders, the gathering seems little more than a five-day cocktail party or, worse, a shadow world government.
But while conceding the remarkable social potential of the event, participants say the forum affords the opportunity to reach out to headline-makers from the worlds of business, government, culture and politics.
 "YOU get as much out of it as you put into it," said Flemming R. Jacobs, a Dane who is head of the NOL Group, a shipping and logistics management company based in Singapore. "In the past, there have been wall-to-wall panels on a wealth of really different issues, and in some instances, it has been difficult to choose one over the other. I try to make as many as possible and then grab a cup of coffee with some of the more interesting personalities. It is interesting how approachable everybody is."
Still, the serious side of the forum pales next to the star power of the attendees, and in the past, special e-mail kiosks have enabled more plebeian participants to connect, quickly and easily, with the most powerful.
This year, Bill Gates, the Microsoft founder and chairman, can mix it up with a rival, Nobuyuki Idei, chairman and chief executive of Sony. Kim Dae Jung, the president of South Korea, can exchange views with Thomas Klestil, the president of Austria, and Hamid Karzai, the president of Afghanistan.
ALL this comes with a cost, of course. Mr. Schwab gets most of the organization's income from corporations, which pay annual fees of $17,647 plus $7,353 for each person attending. American companies have gradually become the biggest source of this corporate revenue, and their executives often get prominent billing at forum events. 
But entertainment is never ignored. Daniel Boulud, perhaps the reigning prince of the New York gastronomic scene, whose restaurants -- Restaurant Daniel, Cafe Boulud and db Bistro Moderne -- will no doubt be mobbed by forum participants, will be the host of a panel called "Tell Me What You Eat . . ." exploring the clues that food offers about culture and national identity.
And a host of other luminaries, ranging from Alec Baldwin, Quincy Jones and Jenny Holzer to Elie Wiesel and Francis Fukuyama, will also be roaming the convention halls, as they have in the past.
"I think you go for the same reason you go to parties -- to see a lot of people you only get to see when you go to parties, because you're too busy with work and traveling all the time," said Joichi Ito, founder and chief executive of Neoteny, a technology investment company in Tokyo, who is looking forward to stealing a few moments with John Gage, chief scientist at Sun Microsystems. "The forum is the only time I can get to see all these busy people in one place and have business meetings and get new ideas."
This will be Mr. Ito's second forum, in part because he misunderstood the proper protocol for getting an invitation. "I kept getting invited to all of the regional conferences," he said, referring to the smaller conclaves Mr. Schwab convenes in various locales around the globe throughout the year. "I was insulted because I wanted to be invited to the forum in Davos, but then someone from Klaus's organization pulled me aside and explained that it was only by attending some of the regional conferences that you get invited to the annual conference."
He was glad to hear that New York was a temporary venue for the forum. "There's something kitsch about hanging out with rich and famous people in a ski resort in Davos," he said. "There's nothing kitsch about hanging out with rich and famous people at the Waldorf-Astoria."
Indeed. Insiders tend to refer to the forum simply as "Davos." "Waldorf" or "Manhattan" just don't have quite the same ring.
But many are hoping that the forum's Manhattan excursion will rejuvenate the gathering. Several participants last year grumbled that it had lost its focus and become too much of a media circus. The issues discussed and the ideas engendered were lost in the news of who was having lunch with whom and which corporate chieftain was the best skier.
"My first year, two years ago, was a real winner," Mr. Jacobs said. "It was full of enthusiasm, speed, lots of new ideas. Last year, I walked away with less inspiration and fewer ideas."
In recent years, questions have been raised about Mr. Schwab's management of the organization's finances, and last year the Swiss, who have always viewed the forum as a bit of a nuisance, complained that their tax dollars were being siphoned off to provide extra security from protesters while crime rates in Zurich were rising.
The sideshows, in other words, overtook the main event. "The decision to move it to New York was incredibly controversial," said Esther Dyson, the technology consultant and head of Edventure, who has her pick of conferences but always attends the forum. "It had reached the pinnacle, and the move to New York could be a mess or it could reset it and give it new life. It needs to be given a new life. It was successful, but it really wasn't headed anywhere. It'll change now." 
There is at least one sign that the forum will regain some of its luster as a serious venue for promoting the exchange of ideas. Saudi Arabia plans to send a delegation of some 50 princes, high-ranking officials and other dignitaries to undertake a charm offensive in the wake of the terrorist attacks, said Hassan Yassin, a Saudi businessman and former head of the Saudi Information Office in Washington.
"Holding the forum in New York is a very good way to show that what happens to America is of concern to all of the international community, including Saudi Arabia," Mr. Yassin said. "New York is the central unit of the world economy, and any harm done to it has tentacles that reach out around the world."
After the forum, the Saudis plan to fan out across the country in an effort to mend fences and repair their country's tattered image here. "Unfortunately, there were Saudi citizens among those who attacked America," Mr. Yassin said. "We want to show we are not all siblings of those terrorists."
MR. SCHWAB, for his part, says context and timing as much as change of venue will make this forum different from those of the last few years. "I think this time people feel we are living in a new world, and it's the first big meeting of global decision makers since Sept. 11," he said. "People this year expect to come out with a vision, or at least some signposts, for what this new world will be."
Many participants agree, predicting that Sept. 11 and, to a lesser extent, the global economic slowdown will dominate the discussions and restore the forum's heft.
"There are so many new issues that didn't exist last year," said Jeffrey E. Garten, dean of the Yale School of Management and a former under secretary of commerce. "Is America wallowing in its own obsessions or are our preoccupations shared by the world? How can we reconcile economic weakness with a show of foreign-policy strength? And what is the answer to the question of whether government is re-emerging as a more powerful force dominating world markets or is it a temporary phenomenon?"
That sort of issue is what will draw Dani Rodrik, an economist at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. Mr. Rodrik, a globalization expert and a critic of traditional globalization theories, sees the forum as another venue for the debate -- a debate he sees gradually incorporating the protesters' views.
"Even those who fundamentally disagree with the ideas being propounded by the antiglobalization groups," he said, "have to appear that they are paying lip service to them and you will see that at the Waldorf."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A protester at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, last year. (Reuters)(pg. 1); Michael Moore, director general of the World Trade Organization, and panelists, top, discussed global trade at the 2001 World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. But Klaus Schwab, its founder, with his wife, Hilde, right, has added star power to the event. Last year, the mix included Quincy Jones, above, and, below, Yasir Arafat and Kofi Annan. (Photographs from the World Economic Forum)(pg. 12) Chart: "Who's Expected"Mention the World Economic Forum and people think of billionaires (Bill Gates) and chief executives (David H. Komansky, Henry McKinnell) rubbing shoulders with kings and presidents (Kim Dae Jung, Thabo Mbeki). They will be there this year among the 3,000 attending, and so will many others who need no introduction. Kofi AnnanJeff BezosZbigniew BrzezinskiStephen M. CaseDale ChihulyAbby Joseph CohenSteve ForbesEllen FutterHerbie HancockRem KoolhaasMario MontiNicholas NegroponteGeorge E. PatakiColin L. PowellAnthony RobbinsOlympia J. SnoweJohn SweeneyDesmond TutuChristie WhitmanElie Wiesel (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HISTORY (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MOUNTAINS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); DEREGULATION (73%); RESORTS (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); SKIING (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%) WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (59%); BILL GATES (58%) SCHWAB, KLAUS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ALPS (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); ITALY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



819 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Colombian Riddle: What Drew Rebels to the Table?

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia 

 BODY:
MANY Colombians were relieved when the country's largest rebel group -- which is also the largest and richest guerrilla army in Latin American history -- unexpectedly conceded to government demands and agreed to start cease-fire talks. 
 But they were also puzzled. Why now? 
 After all, President Andres Pastrana has spent three years trying to lure the group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, into negotiations, taking the unprecedented and audacious step of ceding a huge territory to its control in a gesture of good faith. But the guerrillas used their new dominion to store arms, plan military offensives and grow coca. They kidnapped foreign aid workers and stalled at the peace table. 
They were the acts, many Colombians agreed, of a group intent on making war, not peace, and many supported Mr. Pastrana when he decided to take back the ceded territory. It was on the eve of being forced out that the FARC made its astonishing concession.
Many experts think the group is not just trying to keep its territory. Some of its commanders, diplomats say, are clearly aware that the tide may soon turn against the FARC, a 17,000-fighter force that operates nationwide.
The rebels are facing an army, bolstered by hundreds of millions of dollars in American aid, that is stronger, better equipped and more mobile. And they are also battling a surging paramilitary group, a 10,000-fighter force financed by wealthy Colombians and supported by some army units. The militiamen are, in fact, the rebels' biggest concern, since they have been highly successful at carving into guerrilla-held territory through terror tactics that include mass killings of guerrilla sympathizers, leftists and poor villagers. 
A Latin American diplomat said the guerrillas are also feeling the pressure of international public opinion, which has turned against them in the wake of their kidnapping of foreigners, attacks on villages and belligerent declarations.
"They absolutely committed political suicide," another diplomat here said.
That is not to say there has been a transformation of the rebel group; there has not. The guerrillas continue to launch attacks and, even after signing a recent accord, have questioned whether they can carry it out. Even the most energetic supporters of a peace process privately express uncertainty about whether the guerrillas really want peace, or plan to negotiate as a stalling tactic. 
Those close to the peace process also warn that the possibility of signing the first cease-fire accords by April 7 -- as stipulated in last Sunday's agreement -- will remain difficult, if not impossible. Such agreements usually follow, not precede, significant agreements on substantial issues. And there have been none of those. 
There are many steps toward the kind of agreements that could form the basis of a real peace; few have actually been taken.
Those rebel commanders wary of a peace process -- and it is clear it is a large group -- must be won over by a government that is willing to assuage suspicions and foster confidence in guerrilla negotiators. That will mean not only controlling the paramilitaries, but galvanizing support for a negotiated settlement among the elite business class and the military, both bitterly opposed to making concessions.
The government needs to also show it is serious about carrying out difficult reforms, among them restructuring a corrupt and closed political system and purging rights violators from the army. Colombian leaders have to also be prepared to take on such complicated issues as agrarian reform, which would include parceling out land to the poor, confiscating the huge tracts owned by drug traffickers and setting up an equitable tax structure.
ONLY then, experts agree, would the rebels bend on demands that most agree would be nearly impossible to realize: ending unemployment, stopping privatizations and restructuring Colombia's increasingly open economy.
Not easy propositions, but crucial if negotiations are to advance, said Oscar Arias, the former president of Costa Rica, who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his regional peace initiatives in Central America. "What it needs is patience, persistence and plenty of humanity to make compromises and thus reach accords," he said.
No one is really sure, though, whether the rebels are truly willing, or even ready, to take on such an overwhelming task. Many of the FARC's most thoughtful political thinkers -- members of its political wing, the Patriotic Union -- were murdered by the hundreds by right-wing assassins in the 1980's and early 1990's. 
The vacuum is clearly evident to those who have been left to negotiate. "They're brilliant political tacticians," one diplomat said, "but terrible negotiators."
And many rebel commanders have been soured by what they view as the failures of other rebel groups that negotiated. To them, El Salvador's rebels never achieved widespread reforms that closed out that country's war a decade ago. Other Colombian groups that took the same path failed as political parties, or were annihilated by assassins.
Still, the signs recently emanating from the camps of the 38-year-old peasant army have been unmistakable. Many diplomats here say the group took a quantum leap this month when it invited a United Nations envoy and then a group of ambassadors in an effort to overcome an impasse in peace talks. The development marked a sharp turnaround for a group deeply suspicious of outsiders and bitter after the European Union banned travel visas for rebel members. Then the rebels gave up on demands that had held up talks and accepted the long-held government demand that the two sides talk about a cease-fire.
"This is historic," said Daniel Garcia-Pena, a former government peace negotiator. "I wake up and say, 'Did this really happen?' This signifies big, deep changes."
Perhaps most significant, guerrilla commanders have toned down vociferous demands that Mr. Pastrana dismantle the paramilitary groups. The issue is still paramount, but a diplomat familiar with the group said commanders decided to back off on public protestations after concluding Mr. Pastrana did not have the political capital to force the military to act more decisively.
WHAT still remains a mystery, though, is who holds the upper hand in the top echelon of the rebel group -- those who believe in negotiations or the hard-liners, who refer to themselves as "the army."
"There are huge arguments in the FARC right now," said a Western diplomat. "That consultation is going to be a real debate, and we may see a FARC coming back to the table that is more suspicious, more cautious, less willing to give."
Or, the diplomat said, the FARC may resume talks "firmly decided as an organization, at their top leadership levels, that this is the way to go."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A burning oil pipeline, reportedly the work of rebels, blocked a road in southern Colombia last year. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); HISTORY (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TERRORISM (70%) CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (90%)

PERSON: FORERO, JUAN; PASTRANA, ANDRES (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (58%) COLOMBIA (96%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) COLOMBIA

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



820 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Aggressive Strategies: The Logical Conclusion

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
HOW much is enough? 
 That was one of the questions that came up last week, when a lawyer for Kenneth L. Lay, then chairman and chief executive of Enron, said that Mr. Lay had been forced repeatedly to borrow millions of dollars (at low interest rates) from Enron in 2001. He needed the money, the lawyer said, because he owed money to others and had to make payments on those loans. 
 Here was a man who, from 1999 through 2001, netted more than $205 million, mostly from selling Enron stock, augmented by his salary and bonuses. 
Some people wonder whether Mr. Lay really needed the money. He repaid the loans from his company by turning in Enron stock, and there is no way to be sure that Mr. Lay was not just looking for a way to cash in Enron stock quickly and quietly.
But his lawyer's statement could reflect Mr. Lay's true motive. And those who cannot imagine why someone with hundreds of millions of dollars would borrow money to make risky investments probably do not remember how very wealthy people -- first-generation, of course -- get to that status. They don't do it by playing it safe.
An example is Bernard J. Ebbers, the chief executive of WorldCom. Mr. Ebbers built that company from nothing into one of the country's largest telecommunications companies. He pursued aggressive strategies, taking major risks and betting that his strategies would work. 
Now his stock in the company is worth more than $200 million, which would seem to make him very rich. But it used to be worth a lot more, and Mr. Ebbers borrowed a lot of money along the way, secured by his stock in WorldCom, and got the company to lend him money and guarantee his other loans. 
Mr. Ebbers' debts at last report totalled millions more than the current value of his stock.
Part of the answer for such behavior may simply be overconfidence. To get to where they were, Mr. Lay and Mr. Ebbers had repeatedly taken risks, either personally or for their companies. And they had repeatedly won.
"When you are successful, there is a tendency to attribute that to your own skill and ability, and not to sufficiently acknowledge that there is luck involved," said Terrance Odean, an assistant professor of finance at the University of California in Berkeley who has studied the behavior of investors. 
Professor Odean pointed out that if you flipped each of 1,024 coins 10 times, you would expect one coin to come up heads every time. That coin would not, however, be any more likely than any other to turn up heads on an 11th flip. But if the coin could think, it might figure that it was absolutely brilliant. 
Starting a company itself, as Mr. Ebbers did, requires a lot of confidence, as does taking the risks needed to make a company grow as much as Enron did. 
"I think there are a lot of reasons why someone like Ken Lay might become overconfident," said Professor Odean. 
By the end of the week, Mr. Lay, facing numerous investigations, had been persuaded to step aside and let someone else run Enron. His luck, it would appear, is not what it used to be.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenneth L. Lay at Enron Field in 2000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); BONDS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); ETHICS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%) ETHICS; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; LAY, KENNETH L 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



821 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Organizing the World to Fight Terror 

BYLINE:  By Igor S. Ivanov; Igor S. Ivanov is the Russian foreign minister.

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
The year 2001 was a turning point for Russia, the United States and the world. Not long ago everybody wondered what was in store for mankind in the 21st century. Many expressed doubts that Russian-American relations would retain their key role in world politics. On Sept. 11, all these issues appeared in a completely different light. The barbaric acts of terrorists in New York and Washington were indeed a tragedy of worldwide scale. It is no coincidence that President Vladimir Putin compared them with the Nazi crimes of World War II.
 Half a century ago Russia and the United States, despite enormous political differences, combined efforts against Nazism. Now we are joined by common democratic values, and it is even more obvious that a struggle against a world threat requires the cooperation of our countries and the entire world community. The defeat of the Taliban is only the beginning of a difficult road. 
 After World War II, the victorious countries deliberated on creating mechanisms of international cooperation that would prevent another such catastrophe. Thus was born the United Nations, which has served as a universal mechanism ensuring world peace and security.
Today we are facing essentially the same problem. The events of Sept. 11 demonstrated the extreme vulnerability of modern countries to new threats. We lack reliable mechanisms to counter them or to prevent new acts of terror, or to keep weapons of mass destruction from falling into the hands of terrorists.
That is why one of the most urgent tasks is the strengthening of the world antiterrorist coalition. Only on the basis of such a coalition is it possible to create an atmosphere of total rejection of terrorists' actions and to banish then from their last nests. The present solidarity against terrorism provides a unique chance to begin constructing a system of international security adequate to address 21st-century threats. Russian-American cooperation can play the decisive role in creating such a system. 
Common sense suggests that work in this direction would be better conducted under the auspices of the United Nations and on the basis of strengthening international law. The Security Council and the General Assembly have already adopted decisions containing the legal basis for a long-term struggle with terrorism.
Regional organizations can also contribute, as in the efforts to create a new quality in relations between Russia and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Russia does not raise the question of joining the North Atlantic alliance; at the same time, we are prepared to cooperate with it in areas of shared interest. The experience of the last decade proves that such cooperation can be effective only if it is based on the principles of equality. Hence the idea of creating a mechanism of cooperation within the framework of "the 20" -- the NATO member nations and Russia -- which can provide joint development and implementation of decisions in the fight against terrorism and in responding to other contemporary challenges.
Bilateral relations must also play an important role in the new international security system. It is widely recognized, for example, that Russian-American relations have been and remain one of the main factors determining the state of world politics, especially on security issues.
Over the decades, Russia and America maintained strategic stability based on a series of disarmament and arms control agreements. Last year saw rapprochement between our two countries pick up speed after Sept. 11. The commonality of interests between Russia and the United States in finding answers to new threats and challenges is at the heart of this rapprochement. Today we are about to make a very important choice: Will Moscow and Washington seek ways to strengthen security together, or will each country take its own path, probably at the expense of the other's security? 
In this sense, the events of the past year are ambiguous. On the one hand the United States made a decision -- an erroneous one, in our opinion -- to withdraw from the 1972 antiballistic missile treaty. At the same time our countries started a dialogue on a probable new agreement on deep cuts in strategic offensive weapons because we are no longer adversaries. A new framework of strategic relations is to be created in the course of these negotiations. Russia is prepared to work out far-reaching understandings on disarmament with the United States, based on principles of mutual trust, predictability and transparency. This could become a most important positive signal for the entire world community. The nature of Russian-American relations and the attitudes of our countries will also have a significant impact on many other problems of the day, like settling the Middle East conflict and other regional conflicts.
It is symbolic of new global conditions that Afghanistan, which for decades was a stumbling block in relations between Moscow and Washington, has become an example of close cooperation of our countries in the struggle against terrorism. Much remains to be done under the auspices of the United Nations in rendering humanitarian and economic assistance to Afghanistan. We hope that what is achieved there will serve as an example of the kind of cooperation on which the new world order will be built.
Vast new prospects are also opening up for Russian-American relations in spheres like economics. There are good reasons to hope that in this new year mutual understanding between our countries will deepen. Several important agreements were reached between President Putin and President Bush at meetings last fall. Many of these agreements are to be filled with substantive content. In fulfilling those agreements, Russia and the United States will serve their own interests and will strengthen international security as a whole. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); POLITICS (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); TALIBAN (71%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (71%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) IVANOV, IGOR S (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (97%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



822 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: UPDATE/LEWIS RANIERI; 
A Mortgage Man Charts New Seas

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS

 BODY:
THESE days, everyone in finance and many people on Main Street know what a mortgage-backed security is. It was Lewis Ranieri, as a trader at Salomon Brothers in the 1980's, who famously worked to develop the American market for these mortgage packages, which are resold as securities by Fannie Mae and many banks and make mortgages cheaper for homeowners.
 But the financier, now 55, left that arena long ago. He is out on his own, an investor in the health care, technology, boating and financial services industries. 
 Mr. Ranieri, who grew up in Bayside, Queens, started in 1968 working the night shift in the mailroom at Salomon Brothers, then rose to become the head of its mortgage bond group. In 1987, he was abruptly fired by Salomon's chairman, John H. Gutfreund, but quickly built a second successful career, starting his own investment firm, Hyperion Partners, in Uniondale, N.Y. Two years ago, he and his partners made a fortune when they sold Bank United, a Texas savings institution he had acquired in the savings-and-loan crisis of the late 1980's, to Washington Mutual for $1.5 billion.
 Since then, Mr. Ranieri has largely dropped out of the public eye, but he said the other day that he had been quite busy. "Only some of the stuff we own happens to be public," he said. He acquired American Marine Holdings, which builds high-performance boats and fishing boats, in the late 1980's, and he is increasingly fascinated by health care, particularly companies that use technology to shift medical treatments like dialysis to the home from the hospital. He is an investor in a large home health care company in Britain, which he declined to name, and has been making smaller investments in this area in the United States. 
 Mr. Ranieri said he hoped to pick up some bargains among companies hurt by the economic downturn. While he would not name names, he said he was looking at credit card and mortgage companies, as well as "some areas of the technology and telecommunications world that you wouldn't normally associate with me."
 He raised millions for Rick Lazio's unsuccessful campaign for United States Senator from New York in 2000, in part because he wanted to support a candidate from Long Island, where he lives and works. He joined the board of Computer Associates, also based on Long Island, for much the same reason and, he said, because he was genuinely interested in technology. "People associate me with mortgages," he said, "but I've been a techie all my life."
 RIVA D. ATLAS

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lewis Ranieri 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BONDS (78%); BOARD CHANGES (73%); BANK FAILURES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); MARINE VESSELS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); DIALYSIS (64%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (62%); HOME HEALTH CARE (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) PERSONAL FINANCE; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (72%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (55%); CA INC (51%)

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (72%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (72%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: LEW RANIERI (92%) RANIERI, LEWIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



823 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: An Orange Grove Illustrates Japan's Economic Woe 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: ISABU, Japan 

 BODY:
Using the innards of mountains cored for highway tunnels, bulldozers here are filling a valley with layer upon layer of dirt and rock, creating what may be the world's most expensive orange grove.
 When finished in a few years, the 74-acre grove will have cost taxpayers $307,000 an acre. That is 68 times the price of an acre of orange-growing land in Brazil, the world's largest orange juice exporter. 
 "My dream to have flat land for growing oranges started when I went to California 30 years ago," said Ryotaro Nishigaya, the president of the local growers association, as he looked at the unnaturally flat farmland taking shape, cupped by steep hills where groves had been abandoned. "When the highway project was announced, we thought, 'Here is our big chance to make our dream come true.' " 
But Japan's farmers are aging, as illustrated by the increasing illegal use of the rusting and rotting "mono-railu" that snake up the steep hillsides here. Built half a century ago to ferry crates of fruit, these rusting contraptions now are used by aging farmers whose knees will no longer carry them up the hills. Isabu's orange growers now average 60 years of age -- in line with the national average for farmers across Japan.
The political diversion of money to industries that are no longer doing well is often cited as one of the factors that has, over the last decade, hindered an economic recovery. Nowhere is this more clear than in Japanese agriculture.
By one estimate, agricultural protectionism costs Japanese consumers, overwhelmingly city dwellers, about $60 billion in extra food costs. Digging deeper, Japanese taxpayers pay an additional $30 billion in government subsidies to farmers.
Despite this largesse, full-time farmers, who made up 25 percent of the nation's work force in 1960, account for just 5 percent today. These days, the overwhelming majority are weekend farmers, who put in enough work to eke out the $1,100 in produce needed to maintain the low-tax farm status for their land.
But with Japan's governing Liberal Democratic Party dependent on rural votes for its survival, the subsidies and protections roll on. Farm needs dictate national policy, often to the detriment of more efficient industries.
At the same time though, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi is promoting freer trade. At a signing ceremony on Jan. 3 for a free trade agreement with Singapore, he sketched out a vision for a wider trading association called the Pacific economic bloc. As part of this, Japan is studying the creation of bilateral free trade deals with Thailand, South Korea, Taiwan, Mexico and Canada.
But if a fight over Singapore's orchid and goldfish trade is any indicator, negotiators of pacts with Japan will have to agree to disagree about farm products.
Recalling bureaucratic infighting on the Japanese negotiating team, a Singaporean journalist said, "It got so bad that the Japanese Agriculture Ministry guy would not sit in the same room with the Japanese foreign minister guy." In the end, Singapore's goldfish and orchids were exempted from the free trade pact. 
Not long afterward, Thailand and Japan agreed in principle to create a free trade bloc by the end of this year. The pact would join Thailand, the world's largest exporter of rice, with Japan, which has one of world's most protected rice markets.
In February, China and Japan are to meet in an effort to manage Japanese imports of stone leeks, shiitake mushrooms and rushes for tatami mats. Last year, Japan's farm lobby prevailed on the government to restrict imports of these items, many grown by Japanese companies in China. In retaliation, China placed 100 percent tariffs on Japanese cars, mobile phones and air conditioners.
In December, Japan agreed to a compromise, avoiding a trade war between two of the world's largest trading partners. To pacify farmers, Japan's Finance Ministry budgeted an extra $38.6 million in subsidies to mushroom and rush growers.
Responding to charges of protectionism, Japanese farmers and their political allies retort that Japan imports 60 percent of its food, making it the world's largest food importer and the largest market for American farmers.
The difficulties facing Japanese agriculture could be seen on a recent afternoon in Isabu where oranges have been grown for a century on the hills overlooking Suruga Bay, about 100 miles southwest of Tokyo.
Looking at the rickety mono-railu, Mr. Nishigaya cited cases where rotting braking systems have failed, adding, "We have had some deaths recently." At 53, he is on the low end of the age scale for the 205 farmers here who grow the fruit, known in Japan as "mikan." 
"Thirty years ago, there were 50 farmers under age 30," he said. "Now there are 5."
"As farmers got older, people stopped growing in steep areas, and the mountains grew barren," Mr. Nishigaya said, his conversation punctuated by random thuds of an automatic air gun used to scare birds from his trees. Surveying a low-level grove where white plastic sheets reflected winter sun into the trees, sweetening the fruit, he added, "By flattening the mountain, we hope to attract younger people into orange growing." 
But orange growers this season earned only 17 cents a pound for their best fruit, while a flood of imported Brazilian orange juice wiped out the Japanese market for the blemished fruit. Down in the village, over hot tea and cookies at his farmhouse, Mr. Nishigaya admitted that he had not had the courage to ask his oldest son, a junior in college, if he wanted to take over the family orange groves.
"I have told him, 'If the land is made flat, you can make money from mikan,' " he said. 
Noting that his son was studying industrial chemistry in college and that his adult daughter worked as a clerk in a car dealership, he said, "Around here, the old people are farmers, and the young people are salarymen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: When a nearby highway project was announced, Ryotaro Nishigaya, an orange grower, saw it as a chance to help an ailing industry. Now, soil from the project is being used to create flat land for new orange groves. (Stuart Isett for The New York Times) Map of Japan highlighting Isabu: Orange growers in Isabu are aging and their numbers are dwindling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORANGE GROVES (92%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (83%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); FOOD PRICES (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (74%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); LABOR FORCE (64%) AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (98%); BRAZIL (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



824 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS; 
After Fall of the Taliban, Sports Begin Entering the Light of Day

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
On a raw winter afternoon, Olympic Stadium in Kabul echoes with a coach's whistle and the rhythmic steps of young men, sprinting up and down concrete bleachers.
 In a spartan training room beneath the grandstand, boxers punch a well-worn bag. Down the hall, teenage wrestlers throw their opponents onto a mat with cheerful aggression. 
 There is nothing remarkable in any of this, except that until two months ago, the stadium was used as an execution ground for people who transgressed the medieval edicts of the Taliban. 
Among the spectacles staged here: whippings of those found guilty of adultery, amputations of the hands of convicted thieves and the crushing to death of people known to be homosexual.
With the Taliban gone, the stadium is once again being used for athletics. Teams play soccer under the watchful eye of their coaches. Students jog on the oval running track. Except for the baby-faced guard casually swinging a Kalashnikov, everything seems normal.
Like much in Afghanistan's season of renaissance, the return of sports is at once routine and extraordinary.
Boxing was banned by the Taliban five years ago, yet today boxers train as though nothing ever happened. The regime demanded that athletes wear long-sleeve shirts and long pants. Today, they practice in T-shirts and shorts. Many have shaved their beards.
"We're training freely and without conditions," said Nasar Ahmad Qarizada, who coaches the national boxing team. "The Taliban wouldn't let us box because they believed it is against Islam to hit a person in the head. Hitting them in the body is O.K."
For women, whose athletic opportunities disappeared behind a veil in 1996, the return to the playing field has been more fraught. Excited as they are by the changes, some question how society will react to the sight of women running, jumping, and dribbling balls.
"It will be difficult," said Maliha Baraki, a former player on the women's national basketball team. "We will have to start from zero. Some of the girls' families may not let them play."
Yet Baraki, 32, is undaunted. She plans to coach a girl's team during the coming school year. And she is eager to get back on the court, where she made her name in high school and college as the top-scoring player on every team she joined.
"When you start playing in childhood, and suddenly you're told you can't play anymore, it's very hard," said Baraki, who married and had three children since she quit basketball.
Afghanistan's National Olympic Committee has propped up a sign outside the stadium advertising its return. Inside, its newly appointed officials are working to be reinstated by the International Olympic Committee.
That would allow Afghanistan to field a team, not in time for the coming Salt Lake City Games but perhaps for the 2004 Games in Athens.
Afghanistan was suspended from the Olympics in 1999, well into the Taliban era, after the I.O.C. concluded that the national committee had "no real control over sport in its country."
Sayed Mahmood Zia Dashti, a Northern Alliance official who is the new chairman of the committee, said he had sent a letter to the I.O.C. in Lausanne, Switzerland, signaling Afghanistan's interest in participating and inviting a delegation to visit. 
A spokeswoman for the I.O.C., Emmanuelle Moreau, said the I.O.C. would probably not send a delegation to Kabul until the political situation in Afghanistan had stabilized. "There is contact, and there is a will to rebuild," Moreau said. "But it's really, really early days."
Dashti insists that Afghanistan has a solid foundation. While the Taliban, and their mujahedeen predecessors, discouraged sports, people continued to train in private clubs.
"We're not starting from zero," Dashti said, using a phrase that has entered the vernacular here. "If we get support, we can prepare the athletes in a fairly short amount of time."
By support, Dashti means $1 million in start-up money and $10 million to rebuild the committee. He hopes the money will come from both the government and the private sector.
Given that Afghanistan's interim administration has barely begun paying its workers, Dashti may have a long wait. No matter; he is confident that Afghanistan will be ready for Athens.
"If there is peace in Afghanistan, I am sure we will be there," said Dashti, who used to train body-builders.
Afghanistan last sent a team to the Olympics in 1996, when 28 men competed in Atlanta. At its next Olympics, Dashti said the country would field its first women's teams. He predicted they would compete in basketball, track and field, tennis and volleyball.
By itself, however, the fall of the Taliban will not guarantee a golden age in women's sports here.
"There are traditional problems with women and sports in Afghanistan," Dashti said. "Without the permission of their husbands, many won't do it. It doesn't matter what we say."
Baraki is a case in point. Although she spoke fervently about her love of basketball, she was reluctant even to visit a basketball court until her former coach gave his assent.
The men, by contrast, are savoring their new freedom. Despite a frigid draft in their training room, members of the youth wrestling team practiced without shirts the other day.
That would almost certainly have prompted a visit from officials at the Ministry of the Promotion of Virtue and Prevention of Vice, the Taliban's religious police.
The wrestling coach, Ghulam Rabbani, said his team had not been able to train since last summer, when the Taliban removed its rubber mats. Officials said they wanted the room for prayers.
"Of course, that wasn't the real reason," he said. "They just didn't want us to practice our sport anymore."
Boxing was treated even more arbitrarily.
Qarizadi, the team's coach, recalls trying to persuade Taliban officials that if his boxers wore helmets, they could not land punches directly on the heads of their opponents. As a result, they would not violate the Taliban law protecting heads.
It worked for a while, but when the rules became more draconian, boxing was banned altogether. Qarizada's boxers were forced to train secretly at private clubs.
In 1998, Afghanistan's team was invited to an Asian regional tournament in Karachi, Pakistan. When Qarizada's boxers showed up wearing beards, the tournament's top official told them they would not be allowed to compete unless they shaved them.
"I explained to him the problems in my country, but he said, 'No,' " Qarizada said. "Then I called our government and asked for permission to shave our beards. We were summoned home."
These days, Qarizada is less worried about edicts than economics. Like every coach at the stadium, he says he needs money to buy equipment, which would upgrade the performance of his team.
"We're not ready for the Olympics yet," he said. "But if our economic situation improves, why not?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Women are still not as free as men. At right, Maliha Baraki, left, and Humira Wali once played basketball.; Wrestlers, far right, stopped training last summer after the Taliban removed their rubber mats.; Boxers working out in a training room at the national stadium, above. The Taliban had banned the sport. (Photographs by CHANG W. LEE/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); SPORTS (90%); BOXING (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); RUNNING (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); HIJACKING (75%); VERDICTS (75%); TERRORISM (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); CHILDREN (73%); SOCCER (73%); WRESTLING (72%); WOMEN (68%); FAMILY (65%); RELIGION (50%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); UTAH, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) AFGHANISTAN; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



825 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Immigrant Laborers Feel Stranded in Pacific Northwest as Day Jobs Dry Up 

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: TACOMA, Wash., Jan. 26 

 BODY:
Finding work was not a problem for Jose Padilla for most of the last two and a half years. Landscaping in Phoenix, laying carpet in Denver and, most recently, packing apples near Wenatchee in central Washington. 
 "Everywhere I went there were jobs to do," said Mr. Padilla, 26, from a village in Jalisco Province in Mexico. 
 But as he stood in the wind and rain the other morning outside a day laborers' center here, part of a line of more than 60 men, he found himself confronting a new reality. 
There was no work that day, just as there had been none in three of the last four days he had shown up at the site.
A few painters and contractors drove up, looking for workers at rates from $7 to $10 an hour. But those spots were quickly filled by others with more experience in such jobs.
With the economy in particular decline in the Pacific Northwest, where Oregon and Washington have the two highest unemployment rates in the nation, hundreds of immigrant laborers have left agricultural areas on the eastern side of the Cascade Mountains in recent months, looking for work in the urban areas on the western side. 
But with the market for such unskilled work drying up, many are finding little or no work at all, and some describe themselves as virtually stranded in the cities. 
The problem is most visible in Seattle, at places like the Casa Latina Day Workers Center, a gathering place that has for four years matched Mexican and Central American immigrants with contractors and homeowners. 
For much of that time, with the Puget Sound economy roaring, the workers seemed to have the upper hand.
Almost anyone who showed up at Casa Latina could find a job for the day, even if the worker was in the United States illegally.
Today many more men show up each day, competing for fewer jobs, said David Ayala, lead organizer at the center. 
"We had one day last week when nobody showed up at all," Mr. Ayala said, meaning that no employers at all stopped by despite the long line of ready workers that begins forming before 6 a.m. each day. 
Several men waiting for work the other day said they were homeless. Others said they had a place to sleep only because of the indulgence of relatives. 
Most said they could no longer send money to their families in Mexico or Central America -- their reason for traveling to the United States in the first place. Others said they felt stuck here, with no way out. 
"I came here because I heard there were jobs, jobs, jobs in Seattle, $10 an hour or more," said Raul, also 26, from San Pedro Sula, Honduras, who declined to give his full name because he is not a legal immigrant. 
"Now I would do anything to just be able to go home," Raul said about the city where his wife and his son and daughter, both 6, live. But with a bus or plane ticket costing $600 or more, Raul wondered whether he could ever afford to go. 
Others who had worked on the farms of central Washington said they had traveled to Seattle temporarily, looking for work in the fallow winter months, and planned to return to the other side of the mountains in the early spring. 
In past years, they said, they had even gone home to see their families for the winter or, perhaps, traveled to Florida or Texas, where farm work could be found.
But many said they were remaining in Seattle, because they could not afford to go elsewhere or because they were worried about security crackdowns along the border and in the United States. 
"I think it's harder just to travel around the country," said a 32-year-old at Casa Latina who gave his first name as Pedro. 
He has found work over the last three years even though he is here illegally and has no photo identification. Last year, he took a bus to Missouri to work in a poultry-processing plant. 
"I've heard that Greyhound wants to see a driver's license or a passport or something," Pedro said. "Nobody asked me for anything then." 
Guadalupe Gamboa, Northwest regional director for the United Farmworkers of America, said many workers in central Washington had moved to the Seattle-Tacoma region for the winter to look for work rather than risk going back over the border. 
Even here in Tacoma, where the influx of migrant workers is less discernible than in Seattle, officials and advocates for the homeless said they had nonetheless noticed a definite increase in recent months, part of a general strain on services. 
"We are easily serving double the number we did last year," said Michael Sterbick, director of Operation Keep 'Em Warm and Fed, a group that distributes food, clothing and tarpaulins to the poor in Tacoma. 
Mr. Sterbick's caseload has increased, from 60 a day to as many as 135, with about one in eight being Hispanic. 
"I see a lot of fresh faces, people that are young and strong, and they just want to work," he said. 
But Mr. Ayala, back in Seattle, said he was seeing a growing number of workers who have grown destitute and demoralized. 
"The street changes you," he said, describing several regulars at Casa Latina who recently became homeless and who have found only sporadic work despite showing up at the job center every day. 
"You wind up feeling like a mouse, just trying to figure out where to go at night," Mr. Ayala said. "You forget your whole goal in coming here to begin with. Now you're just trying to survive."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Men in Seattle looking for jobs at Casa Latina, where immigrants have been matched with contractors and homeowners seeking workers. (Larry Davis for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (87%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); REFUGEES (68%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FOREIGN LABOR 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); TACOMA, WA, USA (73%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); WEST USA (93%); NORTHWEST USA (93%); OREGON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); HONDURAS (79%) OREGON; WASHINGTON (STATE)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



826 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE PHILIPPINES; 
Echoes of an Era: Pershing Was Here

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: ZAMBOANGA, Philippines Jan. 24 

 BODY:
Seafaring Muslim rebels who kidnapped Christians for ransom were refusing to disarm, defiantly taking refuge behind the steep mountain walls of an extinct volcano. In response, the United States Army general mounted a Philippine-American military expedition from this largely Christian city. In a weeklong siege, 1,000 Muslims, largely women and children, were killed.
 The year was 1913, the island was Jolo, and the general was John J. Pershing, known as Black Jack, who later gained fame as the commander of American troops in World War I. 
 In the coming weeks, American Special Forces soldiers are to accompany and advise Philippine troops in their campaign to kill or capture Abu Sayyaf rebels who are holding an American missionary couple and a Christian nurse from the Philippines hostage in an extinct volcano in the forested core of Basilan, an island between here and Jolo. 
In the southern Philippines, which has this nation's youngest and least literate population, Muslims and Christians alike are often hazy about their history. But, dates and names aside, history hangs heavy over the coming use of American military advisers here.
"I have no idea who Pershing was," Awali Dori Ali, 19, a political science student from Jolo Island, said last Monday. Standing in Plaza Pershing, he was urging passers-by to go to the Muslim Students Association's rally on Wednesday protesting the participation of American military advisers in operations against Muslim rebels.
A block away, past the year-round Nativity scene that faces City Hall, Mayor Maria Clara L. Lobregat said she would not give the protest a permit. "It could be dangerous, violent," said the mayor, who wore a large gold medallion of Jesus as she received visitors a few steps from General Pershing's old office as American military governor.
From the rebel side, Abu Sulaiman, a spokesman for Abu Sayyaf, said in a taped message played here on Wednesday that "the cycle" of history showed that Spanish and then American soldiers "were not fully successful in their version of the crusade."
In this city, headquarters for a succession of United States Army officers who administered the largely Muslim southern Philippines from 1899 to 1913, centuries-old fears have been revived by series of hostage takings and bombings by Islamic nationalists.
"The big, old communal memories have come surging back," said the Rev. William H. Kreutz, an American Jesuit priest who is president of Ateneo de Zamboanga, a Catholic University here. "You are hearing again that these Muslims are low class, violent and treacherous. You are hearing that all these Christians are an oppressive group who tried to take our lands."
This week, Philippine Army helicopters thundered over this city, constantly ferrying supplies across a 17-mile strait to a base camp on the largely Muslim island of Basilan.
In 1635, Spanish military engineers built Fort Pilar here to establish Christian control over the strait. The city's patroness, Our Lady of Pilar, stems from a legend that the Virgin Mary appeared before a sleeping sentry, waking him with a tap on the shoulder to tell him that Moros, or Muslims, were scaling the fort's walls.
"The real fear is that this will go back to a Christian-Moro conflict," Father Kreutz said of a clash of civilizations on the Sulu Sea.
Today, few people here say they believe that the return of the American military to counterinsurgency operations in the southern Philippines means setting the clock back to General Pershing's era.
A century ago, such campaigns in the Philippines were led by West Pointers whose formative military experience was the destruction of Indian power in the American West to allow white settlement. After similar strategies were used in the Philippines, the abuses prompted Mark Twain to become the spokesman for the Anti-Imperialist League, an American group arguing for Philippine independence.
Today, the West Pointers advising the Philippine military here have as their formative experience the debacle of Vietnam, America's last land war in Southeast Asia.
But in recent days, Filipinos have started recalling the violence of the American colonial era here.
"Are the Americans going to fire back if they are attacked?" wrote Jose L. Guevara, a columnist for the Manila Bulletin. "You bet they will -- 10 Moros for every American killed, just like in the old juramentado days."
When the United States seized Spain's collapsing empire in 1898, it inherited in the Philippines a nearly four-centuries-old conflict between Catholics and Moros, a term imported by Spaniards who colonized this Asian archipelago a few decades after driving the Muslim Moors from the Iberian peninsula. For the Spanish, a "juramentado" was a machete-wielding Muslim Filipino who had taken an oath to kill as many Christians as possible.
While General Pershing presided over the largest group of killings in a pacification campaign that cost about 15,000 Muslim lives, he is remembered differently here in Zamboanga.
"I don't think the Americans killed anyone here," Mayor Lobregat said, leafing through a city history book.
In this city, where the general lived with his family, he is hailed for a series of public works projects: the municipal golf course, a 120-acre city park with a municipal swimming pool, several broad avenues lined with flowering acacia trees, and new wharves in the port.
"Pershing was the most brilliant of the American administrators -- he was the most knowledgeable and experienced," said Josefina B. Lledo, a local historian, driving by Plaza Pershing, a central square that a grateful citizenry had renamed for the American, displacing a Spanish conquistador.
But in addition to supplanting Spain as the guarantor of Christian rights here, the United States played a more nuanced role than that of military "pacifier" in its relations with Muslims.
The United States cut a deal with local sultans and traditional leaders. In return for their recognition of American power, the Americans would mandate religious freedom. "The Americans were very tolerant of Islam," said Hezekiah A. Concepcion, a Philippine history professor at Ateneo.
Photographs show that the first mosques to open in Zamboanga flew American flags. General Pershing appointed seven Muslim chiefs as deputy district governors and started The Sulu News, a newspaper published in Tausug, the main language of Muslims in the Sulu archipelago.
But the imposition of American law over Islamic law caused conflict. The Americans imposed controls on weapons, encouraged girls to go to school, and moved to eradicate slavery, polygamy and kidnapping for ransom.
"Kidnapping had been the core of the economy," Mr. Concepcion, a Christian who grew up in Jolo, said of the hostage and ransom business that supported the Sulu sultanate through the 19th century. More recently, the Abu Sayyaf have financed their rebel activities over the last decade through kidnappings.
In the early 20th century, the Moro revolt was fueled by more than economics. The pride of unconquered peoples was at stake.
"The Aztecs, the Incas, and the Mayas fell before the swords of Spain, and their languages and institutions perished with their temples -- but the Muslim religion in the South has survived," says one of the historical essays in "Zamboanga Hermosa: Memories of the Old Town" (Filipinas Foundation, 1984). 
But with American rule prevailing, some Muslims petitioned Washington for formal annexation to the United States, a route followed by Guam and Puerto Rico. Presaging today's secessionism in this 95 percent Christian country, many Muslims calculated that their best chance for cultural and religious survival was to become an American Islamic territory. 
But the United States decided instead to strengthen the government of the Philippines. Six months after General Pershing presided over the victory on Jolo, American military authorities declared the Muslim resistance over and ordered him to hand over the administration of this city and region to civilians. 
Although he was heavily criticized in some American newspapers for the killings, his victory here was seen as helping his career, setting him on a path that landed him a few years later in France as commander of the American Expeditionary Force.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two Muslim women in Plaza Pershing in Zamboanga, a largely Christian city. Islamic nationalists have revived old fears in the city. (David Greedy for The New York Times); Gen. John J. Pershing in 1916. Three years earlier, he commanded U.S. troops in the Philippines. (UPI/Corbis-Bettmann) Map of the Philippines highlighting Zamboanga.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); ARMIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (89%); MAYORS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); WORLD WAR I (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CITIES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); BOMBINGS (72%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); CELEBRITIES (71%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ENGINEERING (66%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (51%); HELICOPTERS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HISTORY; KIDNAPPING 

ORGANIZATION: ABU SAYYAF GROUP (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%) ABU SAYYAF 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; PERSHING, JOHN JOSEPH (1860-1948) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PHILIPPINES (94%) PHILIPPINES; BASILAN (PHILIPPINES); JOLO ISLAND (PHILIPPINES)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



827 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Cautious After Talks With Ford 

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS

 BODY:
While talks have begun with the Ford Motor Company, Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey is less than sanguine about the state's chances of keeping the Ford plant in Edison open. 
 The governor, who made the retention of manufacturing jobs a cornerstone of his campaign, said Friday after meeting with Ford officials that he had stressed the state's strategic location. He said he told Ford officials, who plan to close the Edison plant in 2004, that low-interest loans and grants would be available if the company retooled the plant rather than closed it. 
 "I do not want to overstate the success or achievements of today's meetings," Mr. McGreevey said at a news conference at Newark International Airport after his return from the company's headquarters in Dearborn, Mich. " 'Hopeful' is perhaps too strong a word to describe how I feel about it. Obviously, Ford is going through a process of downsizing nationally."
On Jan. 11, Ford officials announced plans to close the 53-year-old Edison plant, which would eliminate 1,600 jobs and a $90 million payroll at one of the manufacturing anchors of central New Jersey. As reasons for its restructuring, the company cited slack demand and a surplus of Ranger pickup trucks, which are made at the plant, as well as the need to find more competitive products. In all, 35,000 hourly and salaried jobs at the Edison plant and four others in the United States and Canada would be lost.
Joining Mr. McGreevey at the meeting on Friday with James J. Padilla, vice president in charge of North American operations for Ford, were New Jersey's new commerce commissioner, the Rev. William D. Watley; George Spadora, the mayor of Edison; and George Zoffinger, the former commerce commissioner. The governor said that Senators Robert G. Torricelli and Jon S. Corzine had joined the discussions by conference call to support the state's efforts to keep the plant open.
Governor McGreevey said he suggested that Ford use the Edison plant as a distribution center for finished cars or for parts to be assembled elsewhere. He repeated earlier promises to provide the company with low-interest loans for retooling the plant to make other Ford products, and grants for retraining employees if Ford decides to keep the plant open. Property tax and sales tax rebates were also offered, he said.
But Mr. Zoffinger acknowledged that the incentives offered by "four guys from New Jersey" were not likely to blunt the "worldwide economic forces" that were besieging Ford.
With the cutbacks, Ford reported a loss of $5.45 billion for 2001, its first annual loss since 1992. The company's North American market share fell to 21.9 percent last year from 23 percent in 2000 and is expected to fall further this year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: George Spadora, mayor of Edison, N.J., spoke at Newark Airport. With him was Gov. James E. McGreevey. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); MARKET SHARE (64%); PROPERTY TAX (60%); SALES TAX (60%); TAX LAW (60%); TAX RELIEF (60%); AIRPORTS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



828 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 Saudi Defends Arafat
Saudi Arabia's top intelligence official warned that any effort by the United States to weaken Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, would ruin prospects for peace. PAGE 8

In Argentina, Political Feuds
For Argentines, whose economy has largely ground to a halt, infighting among members of President Eduardo Duhalde's party has further weakened their faith. PAGE 8

Princeton Makes It Official
Princeton trustees approved the hiring of K. Anthony Appiah, a professor from the renowned Afro-American studies department at Harvard.
 PAGE 26

Taking On a Toxic Neighbor
At least four major lawsuits by 25,000 plaintiffs contend that a Monsanto plant in Anniston, Ala., contaminated nearby neighborhoods for almost four decades. PAGE 20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (85%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (83%); LITIGATION (82%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (57%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



829 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: What's in an Economic Forum? Visitors, Police and Protests 

BYLINE:  By DAN BARRY

 BODY:
Near the end of that movie classic "The Wizard of Oz," the wizard stands in the gondola of a hot-air balloon and bids farewell to the people of the Emerald City. He is embarking on a journey, he explains, "to confer, converse, and otherwise hobnob with my brother wizards."
 That's nice, you say. But who cares? 
 Well, the City of New York, for one. This week, some 2,700 "wizards" from around the world -- government leaders and corporate executives, ministers of state and of God, politicians and pundits -- will gather at the Waldorf-Astoria for the annual World Economic Forum, at which leaders "think deep thoughts," as the Wizard of Oz might say. This year, for example, they plan to focus on ways to restore worldwide economic growth, reduce poverty, improve governance and thwart terrorism. 
You should not feel embarrassed if you have never heard of the World Economic Forum; it is normally held in Davos, in the Swiss Alps; it was moved to New York this year to support the city after the terrorist attack in September. Nor should you feel bad if you have not been invited; it is extremely exclusive, and some participants have paid more than $25,000 for the privilege of attending -- and that does not include lodging.
But you should pay attention. These corporate executives and leaders from more than 100 countries bring entourages, expense accounts -- and thousands of protesters to shadow them wherever they go, whether for breakfast at Le Cirque, dinner at the New York Stock Exchange, or a stroll through the American Museum of Natural History. There will be frozen zones, bodyguard T-formations, and many, many people in helmets and uniforms.
It will be a Super Bowl weekend in more ways than one.
The deputy mayor for economic development, Daniel Doctoroff, emphasized that the Police Department was prepared to prevent any of the kind of mayhem that has broken out in Seattle, Genoa, and other cities where similar economic gatherings have taken place in recent years. He said that the money spent on police overtime -- and any money lost because of the various inconveniences -- was worth the public exposure the city will receive.
"It's a magnificent opportunity to showcase to the world, as well as to the many business and media leaders, that New York is in fact back in business," he said, adding that the forum provides "further confirmation that this is where the world meets."
But what is the World Economic Forum again? Charles McLean, a spokesman for the nonprofit organization, patiently explained: "We're not a government entity. We write no laws, we pass no treaties, we impose no sanctions. This is not in any way an official body."
Instead, Mr. McLean said, it is a setting for world leaders to come together to address "the big problems confronting humankind." He said that the forum's members and its 150 employees worked year round on the ideas that spring from these sessions, and that the challenges it has taken on include global health care and information technology.
The forum, established three decades ago by Klaus Schwab, a Swiss business professor, is financed by the substantial membership dues of roughly 1,000 large corporations that Mr. McLean described as "the foremost companies in the world."
Smaller corporations from developing countries also participate, he said, as do religious leaders, academicians, politicians and journalists.
He acknowledged that the pursuit of profit played some role in why corporations were motivated to belong to the forum. "There is certainly no doubt there are useful networking opportunities and business opportunities that present themselves," he said. But he suggested that members are more drawn by the unique opportunity to "think out of the box."
Not everyone quite agrees with the forum's self-assessment. A group called Another World Is Possible -- one of the many groups that describes itself as fighting for "global justice" -- announced on its Web site plans to hold a series of "direct-action mass protests" against the forum ("the first such protests since the tragedies of Sept. 11").
"What we are talking about is democratic involvement in the important decisions that affect everyone's lives all over the world," said Kevin Skvorak, a carpenter from Brooklyn who is a member of Another World is Possible. In his view, "These decisions are currently made by a gang of the richest people in the world and the politicians they control and pay for."
"The rights to make these decisions have been usurped by these corporate cabals," he added. "These are the guys that run the world."
The five-day event, which begins on Thursday, will include hundreds of workshops, panel discussions, cocktail receptions and private chats. Topics range from "Arab-U.S. Relations: The Road Ahead" to "C.E.O. Brainstorming: Leadership in Fragile Times," to "Connecting to Consumers in Uncertain Times."
A panel discussion on the matter of hope will include former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani; former Archbishop Desmond Tutu; Kofi Annan, the secretary-general of the United Nations; and Bono, the rock star. Another discussion, exploring the "mediatization" of society, includes the former presidential candidate Steve Forbes and the actor Alec Baldwin. 
And Daniel Boulud, the chef, will help participants consider the question: "What kind of insight does gastronomy give us about a particular culture or national identity?"
Much of the activity will take place at the Waldorf, where most of the 1,425 rooms and suites have been reserved by participants in the forum. But a previously scheduled wedding at the hotel forced the forum's organizers to move the Saturday evening gala -- "it is usually referred to in Davos as the soiree," Mr. McLean said -- to the New York Stock Exchange.
But there will be plenty of activity beyond the confines of the Waldorf, according to Cristyne L. Nicholas, the president of NYC & Company, the city's tourist board, including visits to museums, meals at well-known restaurants, and even a gathering at ground zero next Sunday for an international prayer service.
Of course, all the extracurricular activity puts heightened pressure on the city's Police Department, the Secret Service, and the various private security firms that have been hired to protect their corporate clients in what may be an unusually hostile atmosphere. Police officials say that they have been training for weeks for the forum, and will announce on Tuesday the city's plans regarding street closings, demonstrations and other matters that affect the public. Meanwhile, John F. Timoney -- a former deputy New York police commissioner, former police commissioner of Philadelphia, and now chief executive of Beau Dietl & Associates -- said that his security firm's armed guards have been retained by "quite a few corporations and business types."
"We are doing security in the various establishments, the venues where breakfasts or lunches or receptions are being held," he said, adding that the guards "will be inside to make sure there is no misbehavior, to make sure there is no one who wants to throw a pie in someone's face."
Next Sunday evening, in the midst of all these big, global thoughts, there will be an unofficial pause in the program. "I don't think we're going to be able to counterprogram against the Super Bowl," said Mr. McLean, a Pennsylvania native who is rooting for the Philadelphia Eagles. "Sunday evening is for private events."
And just in case the crown prince of Dubai, the chief editor of Radio France, or the prime minister of Finland wants to watch the big game, the Waldorf plans to have large-screen televisions in the hotel's bars. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); HISTORY (68%); TERRORISM (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%); MOUNTAINS (52%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ALPS (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



830 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Raise Hand, Place in Vise; 
Budget Pinch Greets New Governor in Trenton

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
The New Jersey State House has become such a font of bad news about budget deficits and layoffs in recent weeks that it seems almost quaint to look back to last summer, when many elected officials conducted themselves as though the state's economy was somehow recession proof.
 Buoyed by the strong performance of New Jersey's pharmaceutical businesses during the first months of 2001, Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco brushed aside warnings that tax revenues were likely to drop, and put together a budget based on the premise that the economic boom was experiencing just a brief pause. At a time when most states were reining in spending, New Jersey legislators, who faced re-election last fall, approved a budget that increased spending by 8.4 percent, nearly four times the national average. 
 Together, they agreed on a smorgasbord of crowd-pleasing measures like a $332 million property tax rebate, a $50 million subsidy for prescription drugs and $120 million for lawmakers' pet projects known as "Christmas tree" items. Now that the recession has brought an undeniably dramatic drop in state tax revenues, and the aftershock of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks have magnified the economic uncertainty, the exuberance of the summer has left New Jersey with one of the most acute budget problems in the nation. 
By the time James E. McGreevey was sworn in as governor on Jan. 15, the deficit had grown to $2.8 billion, making his first two weeks in office seem less like a honeymoon than a visit by the repo man.
Mr. McGreevey ordered across-the-board spending cuts and reduced funding to state colleges, all but assuring tuition increases next year. He froze aid to school districts and local governments, meaning that property taxes in some communities may increase. He announced 600 layoffs, and his advisers cautioned that they expected hundreds more. And while the governor has said he intends to keep his campaign pledge not to increase taxes, he has also made statements suggesting that only income taxes and sales taxes are certain to remain unchanged.
As if that weren't gloomy enough, Mr. McGreevey's treasurer and budget advisers have warned that the worst is yet to come: the budget shortfalls in 2003 and 2004 may each top $5 billion.
Mr. McGreevey has seized the opportunity to blame "irresponsible borrowing and runaway spending" by the Republicans who controlled Trenton for the last decade. Republicans, in turn, accuse Mr. McGreevey of overstating the severity of the problem and ignoring the fact that Democrats supported the spending bills. They also warn that the governor is laying the groundwork for not only tax increases but also to what they call giveaways to unions and other groups friendly to Democrats.
Budget analysts in government and on Wall Street say that New Jersey's deficit, which amounts to 12 percent of its $24 billion budget, is indeed the worst in the nation.
Nonetheless, Mr. McGreevey has far more resources at his disposal than it might first appear, which means that New Jersey is likely to come up with a solution to its money problems before the fiscal year ends on June 30 without resorting to the large layoffs or steep tax increases caused by crises past.
Just last week, for instance, Gov. George E. Pataki of New York offered an $88.6 billion budget proposal that closed a projected $5 billion shortfall by increasing cigarette taxes, counting on $3 billion in additional aid from Washington and draining a variety of rainy-day funds. New Jersey is unlikely to raise cigarette taxes, and Mr. McGreevey is thought to look unfavorably upon some measures used by Mr. Pataki, like his plan to use money set aside to cover a surge in welfare cases in New York.
But tucked away in New Jersey's coffers are an assortment of 80 different funds, like the Post-Retirement Medical Benefits fund and the Unclaimed Personal Property Trust Fund, many of which have tens of million in surplus or reserve accounts.
By tapping into that money, Mr. McGreevey would most likely face criticism for resorting to fiscal gimmickry and "one-shot" revenue enhancers. But it would also buy him time to wait for an economic turnaround that could increase tax revenues and help alleviate the budget crisis Mr. McGreevey and his staff have predicted for next year.
The governor has said it is too early to discuss many details about his plan to close the deficit. But he has vowed to change the way the budgeting process works and discourage the use of accounting tricks that allow state leaders to spend today and push payment into the future.
"We've got to address the structural problems in the way budgets are drawn up in New Jersey, so we don't face problems like this again and again," Mr. McGreevey said.
By preaching tirelessly about the benefits of fiscal restraint, Mr. McGreevey has taken at least a first step in curtailing the state's spending. In recent years, his fellow Democrats were happy to support big-ticket budget items like open space preservation, school construction and property tax relief, but Mr. McGreevey has made it clear that, this year, any costly new initiatives are doomed.
For all Mr. McGreevey's talk of financial responsibility, though, some Republicans say they are concerned about his priorities. Mr. McGreevey's advisers have said they view next year's property tax rebate, which is scheduled to cost $1 billion, as "a target" for possible reduction. Meanwhile, one of Mr. McGreevey's first acts as governor was to sign an executive order that state construction projects can use only union labor, a move that is expected to increase capital costs sharply.
Even if state spending is restrained, analysts say that New Jersey's finances are particularly volatile because the state is highly dependent on income taxes for revenue, and much of that money is derived from people who work in financial services or live off their investments. When the stock market is robust, a surge in capital gains taxes leave the state flush, but when the market sputters, the falloff in New Jersey's tax receipts is usually deep and abrupt.
That dynamic became painfully clear last month, said Timothy A. Blake, who analyzes state finances for Moody's Investment Services, when state revenues fell by $500 million, wiping out half of the surplus in the 2002 budget in a single month.
The stock market's weak performance over the past 18 months will cause another aftershock to New Jersey's finances during the next two years. In an effort to close a budget gap in 1997, Gov. Christie Whitman won the Legislature's approval to issue pension bonds, which temporarily relieved the state from making hundreds of millions in annual payments to employee retirement plans. But the market has performed so poorly that the state will face $1 billion in pension contributions next year, in addition to the debt service on the bonds.
"We're going to face a double whammy," said State Senator Leonard Lance, one of the few Republican legislators who voted against the plan. "We have to make the pension payments and pay off the bonds, too."
Although Mr. McGreevey is unlikely to win many friends by becoming the austerity governor, the budget problems do offer him the chance to redefine himself and his party. Democrats were banished from power in New Jersey after Gov. Jim Florio forced a $2.8 billion tax increase through the Legislature in 1990, infuriating many voters. Now that Mr. McGreevey has retaken the governor's office, he has the opportunity to become the Democrat who tamed the deficit while keeping taxes under control.
"This is not the circumstance or the charge I would have chosen," he said. "But as my mother says, 'God works in mysterious ways.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Former acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco put aside warnings. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 39); (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)(pg. 35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); RECESSION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REPOSSESSION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (68%); TUITION FEES (68%); TERRORISM (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); CHRISTMAS (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (95%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



831 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Bumper Crop in Bankruptcy

BYLINE:  By TOM ZELLER 

 BODY:
ENRON did it. So did Kmart. But they are far, far from alone. In fact, there has never been so much companionship in the country's bankruptcy courts, where judges are handling nearly 50 percent more cases now than they did just 10 years ago, according to the Administrative Office of the United States Courts. 
Filings overall hit a new high in 2001, and although business filings in general had been dropping in recent years, the number -- and value --of public companies filing for bankruptcy has exploded.
 Part of this is due to pending legislation that would make bankruptcy a more difficult experience for both businesses and consumers. The Senate and House each passed versions of a bankruptcy bill last March, but a meeting to reconcile the differences was canceled last September in the wake of the terrorist attacks. The Enron debacle may well push the issue back to the legislative forefront, prompting some people to file claims ahead of any potential changes. 
 But the larger part of the increase, analysts have said, may simply be attributable to good times gone bad. TOM ZELLER

GRAPHIC: Graphs track annual bankruptcy filings, total; Chapter 11 filings for public companies; assets of public companies entering bankruptcy.(Sources: BankruptcyData.com; American Bankruptcy Institute; Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); TERRORISM (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) BANKRUPTCIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS (84%); AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: ZELLER, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



832 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
LOEWENSTEIN, LOUIS K.

 BODY:
 LOEWENSTEIN-Louis K. Urbanologist and civic activist, died in San Francisco, CA Jan. 22, 2002 at the age of 74, of cancer. Raised in NYC, he was educated at the Univ. of VA, Columbia and the Univ. of PA. 
He moved to San Francisco, where he divided his time between an international consulting practice and an academic career, teaching planning at Stanford and San Francisco State. He wrote "Streets of San Francisco: The Origins of Street and Place Names" and four other books on urban topics. He served on numerous boards devoted to civic causes, including San Francisco Planning and Urban Renewal (SPUR) and Lambda Alpha International. Dr. Loewenstein is survived by his wife Neyde Trindade, his son Lexy, his daughter Lael and her husband Adam Wasson. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (88%); DEATHS (88%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%) 

PERSON: LOEWENSTEIN, LOUIS K. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



833 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
TONNIES, FRANK N.

 BODY:
 TONNIES-Frank N. Age 66, of Lake-in-the-Woods, Spring Hill, FL, passed away Saturday, January 19, 2002 at Oak Hill Hospital, Brooksville, FL. Born in Whitestone, NY he moved to Florida 12 years ago. Mr. 
Tonnies retired as a world recognized Consulting Engineer in synthetic fiber production, introducing Europe and the Far East to improved technology leading to economy growth in these countries. He was a member of Hernando and Hernando County Aero Modelers, a collector of HO train models and an avid builder. Survivors include his wife Xiaoxia Yu, of Spring Hill, Fl; two daughters, Kathy Tonnies of Flushing, NY and Susan Peters of Arlington, VA; one brother, Walter Tonnies of Spring Hill, Fl. For information, contact Brewer and Sons Funeral Homes and Cremation Services, Seven Hills Chapel, Spring Hill, FL. 352-688-4991. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); ENGINEERING (87%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS MFG (55%) 

PERSON: TONNIES, FRANK N. 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



834 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Volvo S60 AWD; 
A Ph.D. in Winter Traction

BYLINE:  By BOB KNOLL 

DATELINE: OLD SAYBROOK, Conn. 

 BODY:
YEARS ago, if you wanted to look at Volvos, you could head to the faculty parking lot of any college in the Northeast. There they would be, rows of sensible sedans and wagons, many of them with 200,000 miles, or more, on the odometers.
 One might have wondered why, given the region's slippery winters, these rear-drive wagons were so popular among the highly educated? One reason was their reliability, and another was that the cars had fairly good traction in the snow despite their rear-drive design (partly because the wagons, in particular, had some weight over the rear wheels, and partly because Volvos didn't have a lot of wheel-spinning power back then). And the cars' boxy, practical designs affirmed their owners' serious mien and aversion to fads. 
 A lot about Volvo has changed in recent years. The company incorporated front-wheel drive for improved traction and space efficiency, and it spruced up its styling and image. The Swedish company is now a member of the Ford Motor Company's Premier Automotive Group, along with prestigious names like Aston Martin, Jaguar and Land Rover. The Volvo product range has expanded to include the S40 and V40 compacts, the S80 luxury sedan, the V70 and Cross Country wagons and the C70 luxury coupe and convertible.
The big Volvo news this winter is the XC90 sport utility, which made its debut this month at the Detroit auto show, plus the arrival, as a 2002 model, of the company's first all-wheel-drive sedan, the S60 AWD.
The AWD uses a 197-horsepower version of Volvo's 2.4-liter 5-cylinder engine, with a light-pressure turbocharger. (Other S60's come with 168 or 247 horsepower.) Its five-speed automatic transmission lets the driver shift manually by nudging the shifter.
Although you can get a front-drive S60 for as little as $27,750, the AWD's base price is $34,650; my test car's sticker read $35,825.
All-wheel drive, or at least an all-wheel-drive option, is quickly becoming a badge of honor in the "near luxury" class. Having grown accustomed to S.U.V.'s, consumers are reluctant to give up the safety and security of four driving wheels, and word has spread about the capable performance, even on dry roads, of all-wheel-drive Audis and Subarus.
For the S60, Volvo chose not to borrow the all-wheel-drive system from the Cross Country wagon, but uses a new unit created by Haldex of Sweden. A mechanical pump and "wet" multi-plate clutch were added to the S60's basic front-drive platform to distribute power to the rear wheels. An electronic control senses when the front wheels are starting to slip and forces oil into the clutch that connects the rear wheels. Volvo says this power sharing happens so quickly that the driver senses nothing, and in my experience that is true. Such a system weighs less and is less complex, and has little effect on fuel economy.
The S60 is attractively styled, with the sort of flowing roofline you'd expect on a coupe. Viewed from the rear, the car's wide stance gives it a capable, stable appearance. The good first impression is enhanced by the obvious quality in the way the doors were made and how they fit, as well as the materials and finish of the interior.
The trunk is also well finished. The hinges are designed not to impinge on the space, in contrast to the luggage-squashing designs of many domestic sedans.
The instrument panel also has a high-quality look, incorporating clear, sensible gauges and an easy-to-use climate-control system. This system has separate temperature controls for the driver and front passenger; outlets in the center pillars direct air toward the back seat.
The audio system takes some getting used to, and although I applaud the lack of push buttons, I found that the knobs that select the radio stations and control the operating mode took my eyes off the road for longer than I'd like.
One would expect any Volvo to have an array of safety features, and the S60 does. The force of the front air bags varies depending on the severity of a crash. The car's distinctive body construction is said to offer extra protection in side impacts, along with the side air bags and an inflatable curtain that, when deployed, covers the front and side windows. Also, all the safety belts have pretensioners to hold occupants tight in a crash, and the front head restraints are designed to guard against whiplash. One new feature: the driver can press a button to flip down the rear head restraints, if no one is seated in the back, eliminating a potential blind spot.
The government attests to the effectiveness of several of these safety features. In a front test crash at 35 miles an hour, the driver and passenger positions each rated four stars out of five. In the side crash test, both front and rear seating positions received five stars.
On the road, the S60's ride was smooth and steady. Previous Volvos built on the front-drive platform have had a rather harsh, jarring ride that wasn't in keeping with the European road-car image that Volvo would like to cultivate. I found the ride smoother over most road surfaces than the Audi A4's. The steering response and handling, while a bit less crisp than the Audi's, were very good indeed. The antilock brakes, which also have a brake-assist feature for panic stops, were smooth and progressive.
Typical of a Volvo, the front seats are large and comfortable, with a wide range of adjustments, though I would have liked more lower-back support. Because of the coupelike styling, the rear seats are rather low, giving occupants a sitting-in-a-hole sensation. But the S60's European competitors do not have generous rear seats, either.
Interior noise has a lot to do with a feeling of comfort, and I was surprised by the S60's low noise level on the highway -- quieter to my ear than the A4, for example.
The low-pressure turbo is smooth and quite powerful, and I noticed no lag in the response. The engine and transmission worked well together with seamless shifts and plenty of acceleration. Shifts of torque to the rear wheels were imperceptible.
The government gives the S60 AWD a mileage rating of 19 in town and 26 on the highway. I averaged 24 m.p.g. Premium gasoline is recommended for "best performance," but 87 octane is all that's required, according to the owner's manual.
The S60's all-wheel-drive competitors include the Audi A4, the BMW 3-Series and the Jaguar X-Type. All are excellent performers, but a dedicated shopper will want to try them all. Their features may be roughly equivalent, but their personalities are quite different.

INSIDE TRACK: Stodgy no longer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: For 2002, Volvo has added an all-wheel-drive version of its S60 sedan. It joins all-wheel-drive models from Audi, BMW, Jaguar and Mercedes in the midsize luxury class. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SEDANS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); SPORTS CARS (71%) AUTOMOBILES; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); PREMIER AUTOMOTIVE GROUP (55%); HALDEX AB (55%)

ORGANIZATION: VOLVO AB 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); HLDX (STO) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS336340 MOTOR VEHICLE BRAKE SYSTEM MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3496 MISC. FABRICATED WIRE PRODUCTS (55%)

PERSON: KNOLL, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); SWEDEN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



835 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; 
Don't Underestimate the Power of Contrary Thinking

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
STOCK market sentiment is becoming extremely bullish.
 In the last three weeks, the sentiment data from Investors Intelligence has popped above an important threshold. The ratio of bulls to bears among about 130 investment newsletters has risen above two to one. The percentage of bearish newsletters has dropped to near lows not seen since 1992. 
 In addition, an index of volatility compiled by the Chicago Board Options Exchange has been falling, showing that investors are less worried about sharp moves in the market, especially big turns.
Investor sentiment is often seen as a contrarian indicator. According to this view, when people turn bullish, the outlook is not really good. So how should an investor weigh the current news?
One way is to look at how contrarian indicators have performed in the past. A quick check shows that the sentiment indicator compiled by Investors Intelligence has been on the mark lately.
The last time the ratio of bulls to bears for the Investors Intelligence indexes was at least two to one was in the last two weeks of July 2001. At the time, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was just over 1,200, midway between its recent high and low. In the 13 weeks after the first week's signal that year, the S.& P. 500 dropped 10.2 percent, while over 26 weeks, it declined 5.8 percent.
The bull-bear ratio reached two to one for at least a week four other times in 2000 and 2001. Each time, the market declined over the next 13 weeks. Three of the four times, it fell over the next 26 weeks. And in each of the three cases that apply, it declined over the next 52 weeks. (In one case, a year has not elapsed.)
But from December 1989 to July 1999, the signal was not as reliable. The two-to-one signal flashed nine times during that period. Five times, the market declined during the next 13 weeks. But in three of those five, the market was higher 26 weeks and 52 weeks later. It declined only once over 26 weeks and only once over 52 weeks. That seems to indicate that the sentiment measure is best as a short-term market barometer.
The volatility indicator has been on the mark recently. It was near its low for the year in July 2001, giving the same contrarian warnings as the bull-bear ratio. In mid-September, volatility was at a high -- a positive for a contrarian -- and the market rallied until the end of the year.
The other way to evaluate the contrarian signals is to look at the broader market and the financial environment. There are many positives, and they may be enough to offset the contrarian signals -- as they have in the past.
Among the good signs now are low interest rates, low inflation and new forecasts showing that the economic recovery may already be under way.
In addition, the decline in predicted corporate earnings growth appears to have stopped, according to Thomson Financial/ First Call, which follows Wall Street analysts' forecasts. Last week, the quarterly forecasts for this year moved in a positive direction. For example, the first-quarter forecast for earnings growth, compared with the first quarter of 2001, is now a decline of 7.3 percent, versus a decline of 8.1 percent predicted the previous week. The second-quarter forecast moved up to a gain of 9 percent, from a gain of 7.8 percent.
That news lets some equity strategists breathe a little easier. "It looks like the worst of the earnings news is behind us," said Jeffrey Applegate, chief United States analyst at Lehman Brothers.
But on the down side, the stock market is still very highly valued, with the S.& P. 500 index at a price-to-earnings ratio of around 23, based on current earnings forecasts, compared with a 40-year average of 15. Many analysts remain wary about the outlook for earnings this year, partly because companies have been going to the profit-enhancing well for a long time. Costs have already been cut; mergers have taken place; new technology has been bought.
That means that the market and the financial environment are not as positive as it may appear, suggesting that contrarian signals are worth heeding.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Prosperity Warning"Among investment newsletters, the ratio of bulls to bears has climbed back above two to one. That has sometimes been a signal of a market sell-off. Graph shows the ratio of bulls to bears since October 1989-2001 (Source: Investors Intelligence)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: CBOE HOLDINGS INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: CBOE (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (72%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



836 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2393 words

HEADLINE: A Fog Over Enron, And the Legal Landscape 

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES with KURT EICHENWALD

 BODY:
"ROTTEN." "Horrible." "Indefensible." "Shocking."
 With those words, securities law experts around the country condemned the way Enron had structured and sold a partnership called LJM2, which offered investors a chance to profit from confidential information about Enron's investment plans -- and gave the partnership investors more information about the company's finances than Enron's shareholders received. 
 "This is potentially the most serious revelation about Enron to date," said Joel Seligman, a securities law historian and dean of the Washington University Law School. "You can't overstate how shocking it is."
But did the arrangement, however unfair it seems to stockholders, actually violate the nation's securities laws and regulations? That is far more difficult to answer, legal scholars say -- and far more important. For them, the fundamental question about the sprawling Enron scandal is whether it is a case of strong laws being violated by bad people, or of weak laws rendering such violations unnecessary. 
"If a company of this size, advised by top-tier accountants and law firms, could conclude that our laws permit some of what happened here, then our laws are inadequate," said Richard C. Breeden, a former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Clearly it violates the spirit and intent of securities laws and the whole concept of full and fair disclosure."
The quandary is particularly acute in the case of this partnership, because it seemed to thrive on arrangements -- procedural barriers known as "Chinese walls" -- that were actually intended to protect investors. These legal barriers prevented investment bankers who were privy to information about the partnership from legally sharing that information with shareholders. Instead, investors remained in the dark about Enron's actual financial condition.
But the partnership, lawyers and finance experts say, raises novel questions about the effectiveness of other parts of the securities laws, as well. These include prohibitions against trading on inside information; rules against selectively disclosing information to some shareholders and not others; efforts to police corporate conflicts of interest and the wisdom of removing restrictions on the roles that investment banks can play.
"No matter how good you make the laws, there will always be a small group of people who will push them," said John Pound, a former finance professor at Harvard and the president of Integrity Partners, an investment management firm in Boston. "But the Enron case has raised a lot of useful and important policy questions that will need to be addressed. And the Chinese-wall issue is a perfect example of that."
ENRON'S swift fall, culminating in its bankruptcy filing in early December, came after the company revised its past financial statements to more accurately reflect partnership deals like the LJM2 arrangement. The company and its auditor, Arthur Andersen, are the subjects of both criminal and regulatory investigations, and are being examined by nearly a dozen Congressional committees.
One important focus of those investigations is the way that partnerships like LJM2 contributed to the company's collapse. Confidential records of that specific partnership, disclosed in The New York Times on Friday, show that Enron tried to attract investors by dangling the prospect of potentially remarkable returns, driven by access to inside information about Enron's financial dealings.
Potential investors were told, in detail, about the company's off-the-books transactions and assets, information that Enron had not disclosed to its public shareholders. Indeed, partnership investors knew that Enron controlled at least 50 percent more assets than the company had disclosed in its audited financial statements, filed with the S.E.C. and provided to public shareholders.
That lopsided flow of information strikes many legal experts as a direct challenge to traditional thinking about Chinese walls, the common nickname for the procedures that assure that the confidential information Wall Street firms obtain from their corporate investment banking clients remains confidential, even within the firm itself.
Chinese walls came into being in the late 1960's, as a regulatory response to the increased complexity of Wall Street firms and a more vigorous S.E.C. response to insider trading, said Michael A. Perino, a securities law professor at St. John's University.
Their purpose, quite simply, was to prevent an investment banker from using confidential information about a corporate client to make trades in that client's stock -- trades in which the banker would have an advantage over other investors.
In 1988, at the end of a decade punctuated by insider trading scandals, Congress made such "informational partitions" mandatory, citing the need to prevent Wall Street insiders from taking advantage of Main Street investors.
But in this case, it appears that the protection backfired, legal experts said. Investment bankers who worked on the Enron partnerships were privy to information that may have raised doubts about the information Enron had provided to public investors -- but they were forbidden by law from raising any red flags.
"The purpose of the Chinese wall is to help public investors, but this worked backwards," said Mr. Pound, the former Harvard professor. "What amazes me is that the people who knew they had information adverse to the public investors would not feel a need to find a way, within the institution, to address that issue -- to go up in the institution high enough to say, 'We have a policy problem here.' "
The LJM2 partnership points up Chinese-wall problems that courts and regulators have been struggling to resolve for years, said John C. Coffee Jr., a securities law expert at Columbia University Law School.
If the investment banking divisions of a brokerage firm had information that raised questions about the value of a public company's stock, there is nothing under the current law that the bankers could do to help the firm's retail investors. But there are more limited actions the firm could take, Mr. Coffee said.
"They can't go out and privately tell their clients the full information they have received without being part of an insider trading scheme," Mr. Coffee said. "But they could arguably use the information to withdraw their recommendation on the stock." That, he added, "will cause some consternation and adverse publicity that would alert the market to a problem."
OTHER legal experts worry that the investment banks dealing with Enron were constrained by conflicts between their role as lenders and their work as underwriters. 
This conflict, too, has roots deep in American financial history. In the decade before the 1929 crash, banks would sometimes help a failing company sell stock to the bank's customers to raise money to repay the bank's loans. As part of the New Deal, Congress passed the Glass-Steagall Act, which prevented banks from providing both underwriting and traditional banking services.
But long before Congress officially repealed Glass-Steagall in 1999, both banks and Wall Street firms found legal detours around the prohibition. Now, some securities law experts said, Congress may need to take a fresh look at whether these dual roles in any way affected the flow of significant information to public investors in Enron.
One specialist in corporate law, who spoke on condition of anonymity because his firm is an Enron creditor, said, "In a case like this, this perverse effect should be discussed at the very highest levels in the firm."
Mr. Breeden, the former S.E.C. chairman, said no direct parallels to the classic pre-1929 conflicts have appeared. But Enron's evolution "was a very subtle situation, and very complex," he said.
"In any case," he added, "the public should be able to conclude where the investment banks' greatest interests lie."
That investors in the LJM2 partnership apparently got information that public investors could not get -- because Enron had moved certain operations off its balance sheet -- also underscores the importance of preventing selective disclosure by corporations, one former S.E.C. commissioner said. 
Until last January, corporate executives would routinely hold private briefings for analysts, slipping them details that were not available to public investors. To "level the playing field," the S.E.C. enacted Regulation FD, which forbids such selective disclosure.
It is not clear from available documents whether partnership investors continued to learn about Enron's finances after the new rule went into effect. "But if they did, that raises blazing questions of selective disclosure," the former commissioner said. More broadly, he said, regulators should determine whether other corporations that use off-balance-sheet entities are giving investors in those entities more information than public stockholders receive.
SHELDON ELSEN, a securities lawyer at Orans Elsen & Lupert in New York, said the structure of the LJM2 partnership "really presents some very troubling problems." 
"I don't know that there is anything illegal here," Mr. Elsen said, "but there is a terrible odor about it."
James Moriarty, a Houston lawyer who has represented plaintiffs in a number of securities fraud cases, said: "That they would tell the truth to the rich investors, and lie to their stockholders, is outside the realm of the comprehensible."
Enron might argue that the information potential partnership investors got was not important enough to require disclosure. But lawyers said the fact that Enron disclosed the information to them at all would be evidence in itself that such details were material.
"Given that they give the information to somebody else as part of their bargain to raise money for another deal, there is a strong likelihood that it would reach the materiality level," said Stanley Arkin, a corporate and securities lawyer in New York.
But the information gap between partnership investors and public stockholders is just one of the conflicts that litter the Enron battlefield, legal experts say.
Congress is already wrestling with the potential conflicts that confront outside accounting firms, like Arthur Andersen. The firms act both as independent auditors -- which companies must have, by federal law -- and consultants on tax and technology issues.
But that, too, just scratches the surface. The LJM2 partnership, like several others set up by Enron, was run by a general partnership, LJM2 Capital Partners, and managed by a second partnership, LJM2 Capital Management. The people behind both partnerships -- the "principals" -- were all Enron executives, including Andrew S. Fastow, Enron's chief financial officer, and Michael J. Kopper, managing director at Enron's global equity markets group.
"Investors should be aware that there will be occasions where the general partner and its affiliates may encounter potential conflicts of interest in connection with the partnership's activities," the partnership sales documents said. It explained that the principals "are employees at Enron and owe fiduciary duties to Enron and its subsidiaries; such fiduciary duties may from time to time conflict with fiduciary duties owed to the partnership and its partners."
Enron's board specifically approved Mr. Fastow's role by exempting him from the corporate conflict-of-interest policy -- a step that Mr. Breeden found inexplicable.
"The very notion that the chief financial officer of a major corporation could have divided loyalties to this degree of magnitude is something I wouldn't have believed any board of directors would allow -- or that any C.F.O. would accept," Mr. Breeden said. "The C.F.O. is the financial conscience of the company, the guardian of the numbers. If he has a conflict, how can the system work?"
HE proposed requiring that when any corporate board or chief financial officer approves a conflict exemption, that action must be reported immediately to the S.E.C., and thus to the public.
What is known about Enron's partnership arrangements so far, he said, reveals an even more profound conflict between management and shareholders. Because Enron had guaranteed the solvency of certain partnerships, obligations that were not disclosed on its balance sheet were secretly but steadily eroding its financial health.
"It is as if Enron and its top officers had set up a loaded machine gun and aimed it at the company -- and the shareholders didn't know it," Mr. Breeden said.
With so much turmoil still surrounding the investigation -- and with so much uncertainty about exactly what went wrong -- few legal scholars are willing to predict exactly what steps lawmakers and regulators may take to prevent the next Enron. 
But two things seem certain, they said.
The first is that these fresh disclosures about how Enron's partnerships were structured and sold will expand the number of defendants named in the shareholder lawsuits aimed at trying to recover some of investors' market losses, which have been estimated at more than $60 billion.
Every large institution -- whether an underwriter or partnership investor -- that was aware of material information withheld from Enron investors could find itself in court, securities lawyers said. Already, they said, lawyers who specialize in suing corporations are discussing which investors, institutions and advisers are potential defendants.
"The image I have in my mind is a long, long line of the wealthy and the powerful who made money out of these deals, all set up to hand it over to the people who lost everything in their Enron investments," said Mr. Moriarty, the Houston lawyer. "This is what the Marines like to call a target-rich environment."
The second consequence is likely to be systematic Congressional action to amend the nation's securities laws, said Mr. Seligman, the law school dean and regulatory historian.
The securities laws enacted in the New Deal were "a response to the general public belief, after the 1929 crash, that there were two securities markets -- one for privileged insiders and one for everyone else," Mr. Seligman said. Enron's LJM2 partnership "smacks of that world," he added. And when the American public believes two such markets exist, he said, "Congress -- every time, regardless of party or president -- has acted to address that concern."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 3, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the legal and regulatory issues posed by Enron's LJM2 partnership misstated the effective date of Regulation FD, a Securities and Exchange Commission rule prohibiting selective disclosure of significant corporate information. It was October 2000, not January 2001.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Enron towers in Houston. Scholars say the company's actions raise troubling questions about securities regulations in general. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 1); An excerpt from a document on Enron's LJM2 partnership. The partnership offered investors a chance to profit from internal information -- not available to stockholders -- about Enron's investment plans.; Joel Seligman, above, dean of the Washington University Law School, and Richard C. Breeden, left, a former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, say revelations about an Enron partnership are likely to lead to action by Congress. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. 13) Drawing (The New York Times/Illustrations by Christophe Vorlet)(pg. 13) Chart: "Legal Review"The business activities of Enron -- from the way it structured and sold some private partnerships to what it did and did not disclose to various parties -- raise questions about some basic protections of American securities law. Among the issues that must now be reassessed are these: "Chinese wall"requirementsThe information that Wall Street firms receive while working as investment bankers for public companies may not be shared with other parts of the firm that trade or sell those companies' stocks. Conflict-of-interest policiesCompanies must inform investors about important conflicts of interest that arise in the course of business operations. Insider-trading bansPeople who obtain important confidential information about a company may not use it to trade the company's stock if doing so would violate their legal obligations to other investors or to the source of the information. Selective disclosure rulesSince last January, companies have been barred from providing important information to some investors but not to others. The Glass-Steagall ActUntil its repeal in 1999, Wall Street firms were barred from serving both as traditional bankers, making loans, and as underwriters, selling stock. (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ACCOUNTING (88%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SCANDALS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); TRENDS (78%); BONDS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); HISTORY (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (74%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (67%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



837 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: The Trouble With Bubbles 

BYLINE:  By Edward Chancellor; Edward Chancellor is author of "Devil Take the Hindmost: A History of Financial Speculation."

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
As Walter Bagehot, the great 19th-century editor of The Economist, put it: "The rocks only show once the tide has gone out." In recent months, we have seen the tide of sentiment and wishful thinking, which buoyed Enron in its rise to glory, subside. The rocks, upon which the company was scuppered, emerge in ever sharper form. However, the Enron affair is not an isolated case. On the contrary, it can be seen as representative of the greatest speculative mania in the history of the world.
 Speculation predates the Internet, of course, and Enron existed before Internet mania took hold. But in its hubris and attending hype, in its focus on earnings instead of ethics, in its insistence that it is unique and unprecedented -- in touting its innovative use of technology -- Enron stands as the quintessential Internet company. And its fall, like the bursting of the Internet stock bubble, has been spectacular. 
 One of the characteristics typical of a bubble, and especially typical of the Internet bubble and Enron, is blinding arrogance. Enron called itself the "world's greatest company" (or sometimes just the "world's leading company"), while the media raced to pile on the superlatives, dubbing Enron the "most innovative" company in America, one of the "fastest growing," one of the "most admired." Small wonder that Enron's meetings with outside investors have been compared to revival meetings.
The Houston energy company was both a leading proponent and beneficiary of the Internet boom, moving its energy trading business to an online platform. The company's Internet ambitions did not end there: it spent billions of dollars constructing a telecommunications network for trading bandwidth and delivering "killer app" services like video on demand. Enron also invested heavily in Internet and technology companies. Enron was the quintessential "weightless company" of the Information Age. Its "knowledge assets" were said to be infinitely "scalable," while the markets it hoped to dominate were forecast to be soon worth trillions of dollars.
Speculative bubbles frequently occur during periods of financial innovation and deregulation. Enron was a prime beneficiary of the deregulation of the American utility industry. By developing trading markets for energy products (and many others), it extended the financial revolution of the last quarter of a century. With characteristic hyperbole, Enron's management boasted that it could manage risk better than almost any company in the world. However, it is now clear that Enron used financial engineering to conceal risk. The failure of Enron reveals a culture of lax regulation -- another common feature of bubble periods.
During manias, there is a tendency for businesses to be managed for the immediate gratification of speculators rather than for the long-term interests of investors. A decline in business ethics is another common feature of boom periods. At such times, the conflicts of interest, inherent in the business world, tend to be abused. In Enron's case, the abuse of the conflict of interest between management and shareholders, or the "agency problem," as economists call it, can be measured by the difference between the more than $1 billion raised through share sales by Enron's executives and directors and the many billions of losses of by outside investors.
There were also multiple conflicts of interest between Enron and its outside advisers. Arthur Andersen earned more from its consulting services for Enron than from its auditing work. In time, we may discover whether this conflict of interest was the cause of Andersen's acquiescence in Enron's deceit.
Enron's relationship with Wall Street reveals similar conflicts. Analysts employed by the investment banks eager to provide services to Enron remained bullish on the company long after others had started to raise questions regarding the opacity of its balance sheet and its low returns on capital. Merrill Lynch put money in Enron's "special-purpose vehicles" and raised hundreds of millions of dollars from others to invest in the same. Dozens of investment banks received information about the true nature of Enron's financial situation, yet because they received it on a confidential basis, they could not share it with their brokerage clients.
Speculative manias frequently end in a wave of lawsuits and calls for greater regulation. Last year, following the collapse of the Nasdaq and the abysmal record of many I.P.O.'s, shareholder class-action lawsuits reached record levels. Enron will no doubt keep lawyers busy for years. The conflicts of interest suggested by the Enron scandal are already provoking calls for tighter regulation of derivatives, as well as the accounting and investment banking professions.
In his classic book "Lombard Street," Bagehot wrote: "The good times . . . almost always engender much fraud. All people are most credulous when they are most happy. . . . Almost everything will be believed for a little while." In the bad times that inevitably follow, people are less happy and therefore less credulous. Their vision of entrepreneurs is more jaded, investors are more suspicious and business morals more strict.
Under such circumstances, grand corporate frauds are more difficult to perpetrate. Perhaps a little less happiness is a small price to pay for a little more honesty.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Marc Rosenthal) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ETHICS (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (86%); BUSINESS ETHICS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); BANDWIDTH (75%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); ENGINEERING (73%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); BONDS (67%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (65%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (50%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%) ETHICS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: CHANCELLOR, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



838 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY; 
An Especially Rough Year

BYLINE:  Compiled by Jeff Sommer

 BODY:
Investors holding shares of Janus's stock funds last year suffered the worst losses of those of any of the 20 biggest mutual fund companies, according to a new survey.
 The study, by Kanon Bloch Carre, an investment management firm based in Boston, weighted each fund by size, so that the biggest funds had the greatest effect on a fund company's performance. 
 It found that the stock funds of Janus, a unit of Stilwell Financial, fell by an average of 24 percent last year. Amvescap P.L.C. of Britain, which owns the Invesco and AIM funds, had the second-worst performance, with an overall decline of 21 percent. MFS Investment Management was third from the bottom, with an average loss of 19 percent. 
T. Rowe Price was best, with an overall loss of 2.8 percent, followed by American Funds with a loss of 3 percent and Franklin Templeton Investments with a loss of 3.6 percent. 
Fidelity Investments, the largest United States fund company, ranked 10th with a loss of 10 percent for its directly sold funds. The Vanguard Group, the second-largest company, was sixth with a loss of 7.6 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); RANKINGS (77%); TRENDS (77%); BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: INVESCO LTD (92%); JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (92%); FMR CORP (90%); KANON BLOCH CARRE & CO INC (90%); FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (56%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: JANUS534 

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (92%); JNS (NYSE) (92%); BEN (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%) SIC6722 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



839 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: EARLY WARNING; 
'99 Deal Failed After Scrutiny Of Enron Books

BYLINE:  This article was reported by Edmund L. Andrews, Neela Banerjee and Andrew Ross Sorkin and written by Ms. Banerjee. 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
Three years ago, a German company pieced together a picture of the Enron Corporation's finances so troubling that it helped persuade the company to call off a merger with Enron, executives in Germany and the United States said.
 The 1999 deal would have combined Enron and Veba, a utility company based in Dusseldorf, Germany, in a so-called merger of equals. The negotiations collapsed amid a clash of egos between the Germans and the Americans and the growing sense at Veba that Enron was actually going to take it over, executives involved in the talks recalled. 
 But Veba also became concerned about the levels of debt Enron had and with what a senior executive said were Enron's "aggressive accounting practices." Consultants from PricewaterhouseCoopers told Veba that Enron, through complex accounting and deal making, had swept tens of millions of dollars in debt off its books, making the company's balance sheet look stronger than it really was, according to people involved in analyzing the failed deal. 
The consultants drew on public sources like trade publications and securities filings, these people said. It could not be determined if the talks reached the stage at which the companies exchanged confidential financial information.
It was similar questions about partnerships and other devices used by Enron to shift debt off its books that precipitated the company's financial collapse last fall. Securities experts said the fact that a potential merger partner had such doubts years earlier suggested the problems might have been apparent if Wall Street or federal regulators had been looking more closely.
PricewaterhouseCoopers was one of several banks and consulting firms that worked on the Veba-Enron deal. Other advisers included Goldman, Sachs, Credit Suisse First Boston and McKinsey & Company, bankers and consultants said. 
The auditing arm of PricewaterhouseCoopers is listed in an offering document as the accountant for the LJM2 partnership that was run by Enron's chief financial officer. A spokesman for the firm said, however, that PricewaterhouseCoopers had "never been the auditor of any of the partnerships." He said he could not confirm details of the firm's involvement as an adviser to Veba.
Press officers for the other advisory firms declined to comment on the Veba-Enron deal.
In the wake of Enron's collapse, it has become apparent that many financial firms -- from Enron's lenders to Wall Street bankers who underwrote the company's partnerships to investment houses that bought into them to the accountants who reviewed their books -- knew more about Enron's condition than the company publicly disclosed.
But for many reasons, that knowledge did not translate into action to put the brakes on Enron's deal making or to force the company to disclose more about its finances until last fall, when Enron was already under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Securities laws, for example, put restrictions on how information can be shared inside investment firms. Many of the congressional committees examining Enron's collapse are looking at whether loopholes in disclosure and accounting rules made it possible for Enron to hide its true condition.
Still, there was enough information available to make Veba dubious about Enron. 
"We were wondering why this wasn't common knowledge, or why it wasn't discovered by those people whose business it was to discover these things," said one of the people who worked on analyzing the deal. He agreed to discuss the episode on the condition that his firm not be identified. 
Both Enron and Veba were looking to make acquisitions in 1999, when Europe, like the United States, was deregulating its energy markets. Veba later merged with another company to form E.ON, Germany's second-largest power company.
E.ON and Enron declined to comment on the details of the talks, which the companies have never disclosed. 
But several people involved in the failed transaction said that the negotiators talked about basing the combined company in Dusseldorf. Ulrich Hartmann, the head of Veba and now the chief executive of E.ON, would have been in charge, and Jeffrey K. Skilling, then Enron's president, would have been his No. 2 and heir apparent. 
As part of Veba's due diligence effort -- the detailed financial and legal analysis that precedes any deal -- a team from PricewaterhouseCoopers worked for about two weeks, people with knowledge of the effort said, scouring trade publications and S.E.C. filings for information about Enron's deals. They eventually pieced together a picture of a highly leveraged company far different from the glittering industry leader that the rest of the equities market saw. 
Veba concluded that Enron had shifted so much debt off its balance sheet accounts that the company's total debt load amounted to 70 to 75 percent of its value as expressed in its debt-to-equity ratio, executives said.
In March 1999, debt rating agencies would have probably calculated Enron's debt level at about 54.1 percent, based on the information that the company disclosed in regular reports to the S.E.C., according to John E. Olson, a longtime critic of Enron and the head of equities research at Sanders Morris Harris, a Houston-based securities firm. 
Had regulators like the S.E.C. and rule makers at the Financial Accounting Standards Board demanded more information from companies like Enron, Mr. Olson said, its parlous finances would have been apparent much earlier.
"When you have so many moving parts like Enron had, not even an analyst worth his salt could have figured the company out," he said. "What would have helped is full disclosure by Enron. Accounting mandates by the F.A.S.B. and the S.E.C. would have saved the company from itself and from bankruptcy."
Veba's advisers found that many people in the energy industry knew about Enron's complex accounting practices, if in a piecemeal fashion, but few were willing to ask hard questions about it.
"When things were going well," said one of the people involved in analyzing the deal, "the view among those who knew about this kind of stuff was that Enron was being Enron, which meant being clever."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ulrich Hartmann would have been chief of a merged Veba-Enron. (Reuters)(pg. 32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (91%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); AUDITS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (74%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); ETHICS (71%) ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (84%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (83%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP; VEBA AG; PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; BANERJEE, NEELA; SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



840 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: A FIGHTER'S TALE; 
Bin Laden Stirs Struggle on Meaning of Jihad

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: AZHAKHEL BALA, Pakistan, Jan. 20 

 BODY:
Little in the manner of Ijaz Khan Hussein betrays the miseries he saw as a volunteer in the war in Afghanistan.
 Mr. Khan, a college-trained pharmacist, joined the jihad, or holy war, like thousands of other Pakistanis who crossed over into Afghanistan. 
 He worked as a medical orderly near Kabul, shuttling to the front lines, picking up bodies and parts of bodies. Of 43 men who traveled with him to Afghanistan by truck in October, he says, 41 were killed. 
Now with the Taliban and Al Qaeda routed, have Mr. Khan and other militants finished with holy war?
Mr. Khan, at least, said he had not.
"We went to the jihad filled with joy, and I would go again tomorrow," he said. "If Allah had chosen me to die, I would have been in paradise, eating honey and watermelons and grapes, and resting with beautiful virgins, just as it is promised in the Koran. Instead, my fate was to remain amid the unhappiness here on earth." 
Jihad literally means striving. The Prophet Muhammad gave Muslims the task of striving in the path of God. Whether that striving is armed or a personal duty of conscience is a question causing consternation in the world's 1.2 billion Muslims, and that question goes to the heart of President Bush's war on terrorism.
In the Muslim world, it seems that Osama bin Laden is now a fractured idol, and many Muslim scholars criticize him. Yet he also remains appealing to others, almost as a political Robin Hood.
"Osama bin Laden is not a theologian, or a jihadist in the traditional sense of the term; he's a political activist," said one critic, Olivier Roy, a French scholar who has written several books about Afghanistan. "He has Islamized the traditional discourse of Western anti-imperialism. So a lot of Muslims support him, not because they see him as a true warrior for Islam, but because they hate America, and he's the only man in the Islamic world that they see fighting the Americans. He's like Carlos the Jackal converted to Islam."
In mosques and Islamic seminaries from Morocco to Indonesia, moderate Muslims have been scouring the Koran to demonstrate that a true vision of jihad can never be squared with Sept. 11, even while expressing how aggrieved Muslims may be with America over issues Mr. bin Laden has identified in his videotapes, like Israel's treatment of Palestinians, the presence of American troops in the Arabian peninsula and the United States' role in maintaining sanctions against Iraq.
"Don't make the mistake of thinking that Osama bin Laden is the true face of a billion Muslims, or the true voice of the Koran," said Dr. Safir Akhtar, a research scholar at the Islamic University in Islamabad, a Saudi-financed institution that has long been a magnet for young militants from around the Islamic world. 
"He may have a special appeal through his religiosity," Dr. Akhtar said, "and his spartan way of life, and he has certainly drawn deeply from Muslims' deep sense of frustration, but people think of him more as an adventurer than as an Islamic leader, and they know from their own studies that his sense of jihad is deeply flawed."
Conversations with ordinary Muslims in Pakistan tend quickly to turn to their disillusionment with the inglorious figure Mr. bin Laden has cut since Sept. 11 -- as he counseled future jihadis that "this world is an illusion," valueless beside paradise, and posed for the videotapes with a Kalashnikov and a camouflage jacket, while avoiding the hazards of combat himself. Moreover, many of Islam's most militant theologians now rebuke Mr. bin Laden, who suggested in the videotapes that he cast himself in the mold of Saladin, who recaptured Jerusalem from the Crusaders in the 12th century. 
From Cairo, Beirut and Tehran, and a dozen other centers of fervent Islamic belief, pioneers of Mr. bin Laden's kind of jihad -- violent, anti-Western, above all anti-American and anti-Israeli -- have called him a coward and an enemy of Islam.
No example is starker than that of Sheik Muhammad Hussain Fadlallah, spiritual leader of Hezbollah, the Lebanon-based Party of God, for 25 years a scourge of Israel and the United States with its suicide bombings and other terror attacks in Lebanon and Israel. After a 1983 truck bombing of a United States Marine barracks near the Beirut airport killed 241 servicemen, American officials accused Sheik Fadlallah of having ordered the attack, an allegation he returned when he blamed the Central Intelligence Agency for a 1985 car bombing outside his Beirut home that killed 75 people.
But Sheik Fadlallah, now 66, has been relentless in his condemnation of the attacks in America.
He preaches that they were "not compatible with Shariah law," the Koranic legal code, nor with the Islamic concept of jihad, and that the perpetrators were not martyrs as Mr. bin Laden has claimed, but "merely suicides," because they killed innocent civilians, and in a distant land, America. In an interview with a Beirut newspaper, Al Safir, Sheik Fadlallah again accused Mr. bin Laden of having ignored Koranic texts.
"There is no concept of jihad as aggressive combat," he said, quoting verses of the Koran that Islamic theologians have argued over for centuries. In misreading these texts, he said, Mr. bin Laden had relied on "personal psychological needs," including a "tribal urge for revenge."
An Egyptian-born theologian, Sheik Yusuf Abdullah al-Qaradawi, with a history of anti-American militancy even longer than Sheik Fadlallah's, expresses a similar view. From his base in the Persian Gulf state of Qatar, the 75-year-old sheik has issued Islamic fatwas, or decrees, on issues like the need for Muslims to boycott McDonald's restaurants, and on husbands' right to beat their wives as long as they do not draw blood.
But on the Sept. 11 attacks, he has used language similar to that of Mr. Bush and other American politicians.
"Islam, the religion of tolerance, holds the human soul in high esteem, and considers the attack on innocent human beings a grave sin," said. "Even in times of war, Muslims are not allowed to kill anybody save the one who is engaged in face-to-face confrontation with them.
"Killing hundreds of helpless civilians," he added, "is a heinous crime in Islam."
To many Western scholars, Mr. bin Laden stands out not for the liturgical context, but for drawing on the wellspring of anti-Western sentiment in the Muslim world. 
Another French scholar, Gilles Kepel, said Mr. bin Laden drew his views from a deadly mixture of the fundamentalist, aggressive form of Islam known as Salafism that he knew as a student in Saudi Arabia and the heady, but misleading, experience he had when he arrived in Afghanistan in the 1980's to join the last stages of the jihad against Soviet occupation troops.
"By 1989, the jihadists thought that they had destroyed the Soviet Union, and that militant Islam was a force that could prevail against any enemy, forgetting that what really drove the Russians out of Afghanistan was the Stinger antiaircraft missiles given to them by the United States, which neutralized Soviet air power," Dr. Kepel said. "This led them to believe that they could triumph everywhere."
That has not been the case. The Taliban ruled Afghanistan for just five years. Islamic militancy has been violently suppressed in Egypt and Algeria, has crested as an influence in Sudan, and has achieved little in Chechnya and Kashmir.
In Pakistan, clerics who saw the country as following in the Taliban's rise have instead witnessed the nation's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, starting a broad-based crackdown on Islamic militancy.
Yet there are legions of young men who seethe with resentment at America and its power, and long after Mr. bin Laden and Al Qaeda have faded into history, they seem likely to form a ready pool of recruits for messianic leaders.
In Pakistan, that is evident in any one of the hundreds of Islamic schools and seminaries that flourished around Peshawar, the frontier city, in the wake of the anti-Soviet jihad in Afghanistan. Although they are under notice now from General Musharraf that they will no longer be allowed to operate as thinly disguised recruiting camps for holy war, their courtyards still teem with angry young men who say they will one day find a way to strike back at America for all it has done in Afghanistan, and for America's "crimes" against Muslims.
At one such institution, the Markaz-e-Islami seminary near Peshawar, a visitor stopped recently to read a painted signboard inscribed with 140 names of Pakistanis who have died as "holy warriors" in Afghanistan and Kashmir since 1993. 
A bearded young man named Nurullah, introducing himself as a student, pointed to a fresh board nearby that has been prepared for the names of the latest martyrs, men who died fighting with the Taliban after Sept. 11, and said, "Jihad will continue until doomsday, or until America is defeated, either way."

The Force of Islam
This is the last in a series of articles examining the growth in the influence of Islam. Previous articles focused on Islam and women, the devout rulers of Saudi Arabia, and Muslim influence in Indonesia, Russia, Nigeria and Turkey. Articles in the series and related coverage are available on the Web:
nytimes.com/world 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ijaz Khan Hussein, a Pakistani pharmacist who joined the fight against the United States, said that despite the hardships he would do it all again. (John F. Burns/The New York Times); Throughout the Muslim world, a theological debate is being waged over Osama bin Laden's vision of jihad. (Reuters)(pg. 15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); RELIGION (91%); PHARMACISTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (83%); TALIBAN (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); HIJACKING (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%) ISLAM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; SURVEYS AND SERIES; PALESTINIANS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; KORAN; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) BURNS, JOHN F; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (93%); IRAQ (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); INDONESIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MOROCCO (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); ISRAEL; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



841 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
Help for Those in a Wave of Joblessness

BYLINE:  By Leslie Eaton 

 BODY:
WHEN she was laid off in October, Alexandra Kuscher couldn't help feeling blindsided and bitter even though, she said recently, she should have seen it coming.
 Her office at Deloitte & Touche, the accounting firm, had been in the World Financial Center, across West Street from the World Trade Center. After Sept. 11, she and her colleagues in marketing were working, four to a phone, out of a hotel room in Times Square. And they weren't very busy. 
 But when she lost her job, "I didn't know what to do with myself," she said. And she was worried about paying her rent.
 A lot of other people are in the same boat. Since September, economists estimate, about 100,000 jobs have disappeared from New York City. The unemployment rate, which measures the percentage of people in the labor force who are looking for work but can't find it, shot up to 7.4 percent in December, from 5.8 percent in August. And things may well get worse before they get better.
 But that does not mean there is no work - and no help - out there for the unemployed. "There are jobs," Joseph McDermott insists. "It's not 1935. In 1979, unemployment was in the double digits; in '92, '93, '94 it hovered between 7 percent and 9 percent. And people got jobs."
 Mr. McDermott is executive director of the Consortium for Worker Education, a nonprofit group that, among other thins, runs the city's Worker Career Centers, which provide training and job counseling to about 12,000 people a year in the five boroughs.
 Now, in partnerships with business, labor and government, the group has geared up to help as many as 80,000 people who it estimates are unemployed because of the trade center disaster.
 It's not hard to qualify, said Carmelo Loran, an adviser to the program: "Were you working before Sept. 11? Yes. Are you working now? No. We limit the bureaucracy."
 Last week, its office at Seventh Avenue and 25th Street looked busy. The hot line - (212)558-2261 - was ringing as people called to make appointments with counselors. The counselors themselves (there are 13) were sitting at desks spread with paper, helping people to write resumes and to hook up with some of the 7,000 employers who have listed openings in the group's job bank.
 There was a waiting list to use the 30 computers available for job-seekers; a conference room was crammed with people getting a tutorial on training programs (and extended unemployment insurance benefits).
 But it is not busy enough for Mr. McDermott, who is frustrated that only about 6,000 people have contacted the program so far. So he is putting ads in newspapers, sending out fliers and trying to contact everyone in the city who has applied for unemployment insurance in the last few months.
 And he is breaking, at least temporarily, his ban on talking to reporters. "We hate to be in the paper," he said. "We're usually, just do your work and shut up."
 The group's efforts are still evolving, and there are no guarantees. The ex-employees of defunct dot-coms are hard to place, especially at the salaries they were used to. Workers in food service and travel are having a tough time. And the spreading recession hasn't made things any easier.
 But Mr. McDermott insists that with a little creativity, jobs can be found. Hotel workers can move to hospitals; airline ticket agents can work at banks; workers displaced in Chinatown may find jobs in Flusing, Queens.
 And he points to successes like Mal J. Schuster, whose TriBeCa construction consultin business ended along with his phone service after Sept. 11. "I'm not a spring chicken," Mr. Schuster said. "I'm in my 50's, and I was wondering if it was even possible for me to find employment."
 Through the consortium, Mr. Schuster got a six-month contract with Pfizer, the drug company, which made a special effort to fill temporary jobs with workers who were displaced by the trade center disaster. He is enjoying his work in facilities management so much, he said, he hopes to continue it either at Pfizer or somewhere else after his contract ends.
 Then there is Ms. Kuscher, who started a new job about two weeks ao at Everyday Media, placin advertisin. She did not find it directly through the consortium; she did it herself, by tapping the contacts of everyone she knew. But the consortium provided a computer, fax, phone, copier, and, most important, adviser and emotional support.
 "I came in there as an emotional wreck," she said. "but the job search wasn't as difficult as I thought it would be."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alexandra Kuscher lost her marketing job at Deloitte & Touche in October, a victim of reduced business after Sept. 11 About two weeks ago she started at Everyday Media. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (86%); DISMISSALS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); HIJACKING (74%); TERRORISM (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (92%); CONSORTIUM FOR WORKER EDUCATION INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CONSORTIUM FOR WORKER EDUCATION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (92%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2002 



842 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Whistle While You Work; 
In Washington, the Dreaded 'P' Word Rears Its Head

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
PRODUCTIVITY is an economic concept that makes people's eyes glaze over. But rub them and stay awake. Productivity is about to join taxes, budget deficits and the recession as a grass-roots political issue.
 Not that President Bush plans to build his State of the Union address this week around the concept, or even necessarily mention the word. But when Democrats and Republicans lash out at each other over stimulus packages and deficits, productivity -- the output of the economy per hour of work -- is an invisible presence in their arguments. And nothing is more important than productivity in the rosy declarations of Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, that the coming recovery will be vigorous. 
 "As we have witnessed so clearly in recent years, advances in technology have enhanced the growth in productivity, which in turn has been essential to lifting our standards of living," Mr. Greenspan proclaimed in a speech this month.
Mr. Greenspan's faith in productivity became the bedrock in the late 1990's of the new economy. The information technologies gave industry what seemed like an endless supply of faster, more efficient electronic equipment. Investment surged as companies constantly upgraded their operations with the latest devices, and productivity also surged. Using the new equipment, a worker who assembled 100 oil filters an hour in 1999 raised that to, say, 103 in 2000, or a call-center operator who handled 100 inquiries in 1999 increased that to 103. The rising revenue from the sale of the additional output fattened profits, justifying yet more investment in new equipment.
And then the investment abruptly stopped. Companies found themselves producing more than they could sell. Their rising productivity worked against them, so they cut way back on the purchase of new equipment, causing a recession now 11 months old. 
For Mr. Greenspan, however, the new economy still lives: the investment will resume once the recession ends, and so will the rapid productivity growth. "Reports from business around the country suggest that the exploitation of available networking and other information technologies was only partially completed when the cyclical retrenchment of the past year began," he said in Congressional testimony on Thursday. 
Many other economists are not so sure. The productivity growth rate slowed last year to an annual average of less than 2 percent, from 2.6 percent a year on average in the late 1990's. Will productivity revive, as Mr. Greenspan says? A rash of new studies that try to forecast productivity's behavior in the months ahead predict rates that are all over the lot. 
"Everyone's guessing," said Martin Baily, an economist and productivity expert at the Institute for International Economics. "We don't know how to assess the future behavior of the ingredients that go into productivity."
That uncertainty is silently injecting pessimism into politics.
Dan Crippen, director of the Congressional Budget Office, told the Senate Budget Committee on Wednesday, for example, that his agency now expected the accumulated budget surplus over the next 10 years to be $4 trillion less than the forecast a year ago. The Bush administration's tax cuts drew the headline blame for so huge a swing -- and they were a big factor -- but productivity was also at fault. The reason is that if workers fail to produce as much per hour as the budget office once expected, their employers will have less to sell and there will be less income to tax.
"I think we took about 0.3 percent" off the annual productivity growth rate over the next decade, Mr. Crippen testified. By his agency's calculations, that is enough to account for $600 billion, or 15 percent, of the $4 trillion decline in the expected surplus.
Productivity also figures in proposals to stimulate the economy. Both parties have proposed tax breaks for companies that invest promptly in new equipment. But tax breaks are rarely enough of an incentive, many executives say. Profits must also be a lure, and they rise when productivity goes up, increasing output and revenue. Both the Democrats and the Republicans, in their stimulus proposals, assume, without ever saying so, that productivity will rise enough to help companies justify new investment.
That is a questionable assumption. Virtually all the new productivity studies predict that growth will be at least somewhat higher than the anemic annual average of 1.3 percent from 1973 to 1995. After that year, the surprising rise in productivity came largely from industries that manufacture computers, semiconductors and communications equipment. There were also gains from applying information technology to daily business practices, but they came more slowly.
Counting on the electronics manufacturers to once again raise the national productivity growth rate assumes that they can sell all the merchandise they are capable of making at an ever-faster clip. In productivity statistics, potential production doesn't count, only actual output -- and companies curtail output if the demand is not there.
Some pessimists, contradicting Mr. Greenspan, say the extraordinary sales of computers and communications equipment in the late 90's cannot be resurrected, now that the Internet and other electronic networks are largely in place. 
"Supply may be dynamic," said Robert Gordon, a Northwestern University economist, "but the demand may not be there to the same extent as 1995 to 2000."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A technician inspecting a wafer for computer chips. (Feature Photo Service) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TESTIMONY (74%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); CALL CENTERS (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%) UCHITELLE, LOUIS; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



843 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Bringing Home Lots More Gold 

BYLINE:  By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
SARAH SCHLEPER, a button-nosed young woman with skeins of long woolly wheat-colored hair, confides in the current issue of Glamour magazine that she once schussed topless down a slope at Vail, Colo. In the same article, Jean Racine disclosed that somewhere inside her resides a torchy diva. "It's kind of cheesy," she said, "but I'd like to sing pop -- like Mariah Carey or Whitney Houston."
 Not long ago, such revelations might have intrigued a handful of their friends. But now, with the Winter Olympic Games in Salt Lake City opening on Feb. 8, such titillating personal snippets may lend enough spice to their images to gain these women legions of new fans. 
 Corporate America is betting on it. Ms. Schleper, 23, was last year's United States slalom champion. Ms. Racine, 23, is the world's No. 1 female bobsled driver. A top candidate for Olympic medals, she possesses what marketers call the Wheaties factor: a magnetic blend of sex appeal, salty wit, wholesomeness and spunk. Those virtues commend an athlete to advertisers, who last fall began splashing the faces and toned physiques of Olympic hopefuls on products like corn flakes and candy, and who plan to crank up their efforts during and after the Games. 
Until recently, these newcomers were unknown to much of the nation. But when the Games start, a fortunate few athletes may well go on to become household names. The Olympics will be broadcast on NBC, which is guaranteeing advertisers 17.9 million households. With the athletes competing on their home turf, that number may climb. The economic slowdown has dented the sponsorship programs for 2002 and, with them, the multimillion-dollar endorsement deals that once went to the most vaunted athletes. But it has not deterred large corporations from gambling on athletes like Ms. Racine, who is judged likely to cash in on her 15 minutes of fame.
"We're not seeing the kind of pre-Olympics buildup that we normally would," said Bob Williams, the president of Burns Sports and Celebrities, a company that matches athletes to advertisers. "Many advertisers are taking a wait-and-see attitude."
Jay Ogden, a senior vice president at I.M.G., which represents top skiers like Picabo Street, Daron Rahlves and Kristina Koznick, agreed that since Sept. 11, marketing activity "has been somewhat subdued." But he predicted that the patriotic fervor that has swept the country would make the Games a bigger draw than in previous years and could still confer stardom on a few newcomers. Some have already signed lucrative contracts that are making them ubiquitous in print and television ad campaigns, in magazines, on supermarket shelves and on the Web.
Tricia Byrnes, a member of the United States Olympic snowboarding team, appears in print ads for United Airlines, a sponsor of the United States Olympic team, decked out in goggles and a windbreaker, her dashing attire clearly to evoke the brash, adventurous spirit of Amelia Earhart. 
Tracy Evans, an Olympic aerialist, executes a breathtaking backflip on Tommy .com, the Web site for Tommy Hilfiger, a sponsor of the American ski team. And Jim Shea Jr., a member of the skeleton team, new this year, flashes an infectious grin, one of several athletes seen in television commercials for Sprint.
Their youth and prowess make some of these relative unknowns catnip to advertisers who see in them an investment with marketing potential for 2006. Nevertheless, in an uncertain economic climate, they tend to be less avidly courted than such familiar names as Michelle Kwan, the current silver medalist in figure skating, who has marketing deals with Yoplait yogurt, Chevrolet and Disney Publish Worldwide.
Another proved winner is Eric Bergoust, whose record on the slopes and as an endorser make him a favorite of sponsors. Ruddy, with leading-man looks, Mr. Bergoust, 31, counts on a list of big-time sponsors, including Xerox, Coca-Cola and Tommy Hilfiger, which recently re-signed him as a spokesman for the clothing label. "He's got buzz," said Evan Morgenstein, Mr. Bergoust's agent. "In the sports marketing industry, the window for Olympic athletes is small, so buzz is essential," he said.
It is understood among marketers that with few exceptions, Olympic athletes as product endorsers have the shelf life of a plum tomato. Still, the corporations that subsidize their training, with contracts that can run as high as half a million dollars, say they are getting their money's worth.
"In this country, athletes are among the highest paid and most revered people," said Peter Connolly, the president for marketing at Hilfiger. "They can get a hundred thousand people to come out and see them at a live event. Who else can do that but a rock star?"
In marketing sweepstakes that are sometimes as competitive as many sporting events, the decision to sign an athlete is predicated on a cluster of factors, some obvious and others more elusive. "A gold medal helps, but it isn't a prerequisite," said Sue Rodin, a sports agent who specializes in representing women. 
Sex appeal goes a long way, of course. It is an asset that newcomers like Ms. Schleper strive to play up. It was probably pure calculation that prompted Ms. Schleper to announce to Glamour's readers: "I'm tough, but I'm still a girl. I can have these emotional, crazy, actress days." But sexiness, paramount in the Summer Games, exerts a less obvious pull in winter, when wool caps and layers of Gortex hide bedroom eyes and rippling muscles.
Marketers instead rely on a host of variables, chief among them an event's popularity with television viewers and, as important, an athlete's conduct in and out of the arena. In a risky business that even top agents like Ms. Rodin characterize as a crap shoot, advertisers bank on qualities that lie more than skin deep. Athletes who exhibit attributes like courage in adversity and commitment to the game are particularly captivating to Americans. "We're selecting athletes more on their stories, their determination and life achievements than the number of medals or triumphs they've had," said Quenton Martin, the vice president for Olympics of Coca-Cola North America, a sponsor of the Games. Celeste Clark, senior vice president for nutrition marketing at Kellogg, a sponsor of the United States Olympic team, echoed, "We look at athletic performance, but we also look for leadership." 
Starting in October, the company shipped 75 million cereal packages to supermarkets across the nation, each featuring an Olympic hopeful. Out of about 100 athletes scouted, 8 were photographed for cereal boxes, Ms. Clark said, because of their ability to think on their feet, their conduct as team members and their dedication to the sport.
Kellogg's early commitment entailed risks. The worst slip came last month when Ms. Racine dropped her former best friend and partner, Jen Davidson, with whom she had amassed $500,000 in endorsements, making their appearance on Kellogg's Crispix boxes an instant anachronism. 
Up-and-coming figure skaters like Sarah Hughes are among the athletes advertisers are courting most strenuously. Their grace, beauty and high visibility make them prime candidates to endorse health, beauty and fashion products, said Nova Lanktree, a Chicago agent who has matched athletes and marketers for 15 years.
As for veteran performers, Ms. Kwan continues to display an undefinable X factor that makes her a magnet, whether or not she takes the gold. "She may not be the most dynamic performer," said Mr. Williams, the agent. "But she doesn't have to be. She presents an elegant, classy personal style that advertisers have gravitated to." 
Courting the 12-to-22-year-old Generation Y, advertisers are eager to trade on names like that of Lisa Kosglow, a snowboarder, being marketed by Sprint. "They are part of a sport that has the strongest appeal to kids their age -- the ones who are buying the computer games and electronics," said Michael Goldberg, a sports marketer who has represented the Olympic gold medalist Mary Lou Retton.
At 19, Travis Mayer, a member of the American mogul ski team, has the requisite youth factor. And his pedigree does not hurt. Mr. Mayer beat Jonny Moseley, the defending gold medalist, in the Gold Cup competition in December. But just as compelling, his handlers say, is that Mr. Mayer, who has endorsement deals with Volkl, the ski manufacturer, and PowerBar, the energy snack, recently finished his freshman year at Cornell. 
"Marketers like those credentials," said Mr. Morgenstein, his agent. "He's well spoken, and that makes him different. After all, how many times can you say 'Dude' and people think that's cool?"

CORRECTION-DATE: March 10, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Jan. 27 with an article about the marketing of Olympic athletes misspelled the surname of an ice dancer and, because of an editing error, omitted her involvement in the situation. She is Naomi Lang, not Long, and her performances were sponsored by Coca-Cola. A reader alerted The Times to the misspelling on Feb. 1; this correction was delayed by an editing lapse.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sasha Cohen, a figure skater. (Reuters); Jim Shea Jr., a member of the skeleton team. (Agence France-Presse); Travis Mayer, a member of the mogul team.; Jean Racine, the world's No. 1 woman bobsled driver. (Associated Press); Tricia Byrnes, a member of the snowboarding team. (Reuters); Naomi Long, a figure skater. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SNOWBOARDING (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); SPONSORSHIP (88%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); SKIING (77%); ATHLETES (75%); SPORTS AWARDS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (71%); PRINT ADVERTISING (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: WHITNEY HOUSTON (79%); MARIAH CAREY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OGDEN, UT, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



844 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: There's a Small Matter Of Checks and Balances 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WARTIME concentrates power in the presidency. Abuses of capitalism -- especially when they are Enron-sized and presided over by a president's friends -- tend to swing the pendulum the other way, as Congress acts to investigate, condemn and regulate. So what happens when war and scandal, a powerful president and an ascendant Congress all take the stage at the same time?
 That may well be the subtext on Tuesday night, when President Bush goes to Congress for his State of the Union address. He will be cheered wildly, from both sides of the aisle, for his conduct of the war. He will declare that the nation is strong, its economy slowly recovering. But at the same moment, he and his audience in the House chamber will be engaged in their perpetual historical struggle -- not over the state of the union, but over the state of its checks and balances. 
 George W. Bush, who was dismissed a year ago by some as an accidental president of questionable authority, has emerged as the leader of a war on terrorism with unquestioned authority to decide where the war goes next. But he has also seized the moment to assert, though not yet fully exercise, far greater powers for the executive branch at home. The most dramatic are determining who will be tried before a military tribunal rather than a civilian court, listening in on lawyer-defendant conversations in terror cases, and defining the status of prisoners at Guantanamo Bay in a way that allows the military to sidestep the Geneva Conventions.
In each case he is taking for the executive branch alone the right to rule on a question of constitutional rights or international law. But most of Congress has uttered barely a peep. Instead, Capitol Hill is abuzz with the politically safer possibilities of the Enron investigation, with its tales of document-shredding and elaborate deceptions of shareholders and employees.
Politically speaking, legislators on both sides of the aisle know that blood will be spilled on the Enron issue. Left undebated, though, is a trickier matter: Is Congress evading its critical role as a check against an accumulation of unchecked power in the presidency over domestic surveillance, liberties and security? This is wartime, the administration says. But it also says that this war will focus intensely on "homeland defense," a task that could last for decades.
Mr. Bush can claim, reasonably, that Congress gave him broad power to hunt down terrorists in the days immediately after the Sept. 11 attacks. Nonetheless, liberals and libertarians, historians and constitutional scholars, have begun to argue forcefully that his pronouncements go beyond both what Congress was thinking about in the shock of September, and what the founders envisioned before anyone conceived of skyscrapers or airplanes, much less terrorists who commit mass murder using both.
"As a matter of constitutional theory, we should be very nervous about unilateral executive pronouncements that don't rest on firm authority," said Jack Rakove, a Stanford University history professor who studies the way 210 years of politics have molded the constitutional division of power. "As a matter of politics," he adds, it's always better for presidents to seek consent, which was the issue in the Vietnam War."
But so far the White House has shown little interest in negotiating with Senator Patrick Leahy, the Vermont Democrat and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, over legislation that would define the president's powers in convening military tribunals for foreign-born terrorists -- or any other legislation that may limit his freedom to act. Polls show that the American people are with Mr. Bush. They are reluctant to tie his hands in a confusing and unconventional war, in which the enemy may well be a fellow passenger in Seat 6A with plastique in his shoe. Mr. Bush's aides interpret that as carte blanche to reassert presidential authority.
Senator Leahy says that's short-sighted. "This war on terrorism is going to be going on long after George Bush is gone, and long after I am gone," he said. "So we want to make sure we do it right. Why not work out rules on military tribunals and get authorization from Congress, before it comes back to haunt the president?"
To those with a long memory, that may look like the classic battle between legislators and the executive that characterized the Vietnam war years. If it does, look again.
The lines now are a lot blurrier. Everyone involved is skittish about making political missteps in a time of high public emotion -- which may explain why so few in Congress have tried to limit the president's wartime powers, and why Mr. Bush has acted with considerable restraint.
If it is true that Congress hasn't used the powers it has to rein in Attorney General John Ashcroft, it is also true that Mr. Bush has passed up two opportunities to convene military tribunals -- in the case of the mysterious Al Qaeda operative Zacarias Moussaoui, and in the case of Richard Reid, who is accused of trying to blow up a plane with explosives in his soles. In both cases Mr. Bush decided to let civil trials proceed.
The White House says the cases prove Mr. Bush is not power-hungry. "The president simply needs flexibility in pursuing the war," said Ari Fleischer, the president's spokesman, who knows well that in Washington flexibility is power).
ANOTHER explanation, dismissed at the White House but alive everywhere else, is that Mr. Bush's advisers concluded that actually using his newly declared powers could set off a divisive debate, and that he should save the tribunals for really big fish like Osama bin Laden.
"I think they know that they overreached, and now they are pulling back," says Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., the historian best known for his book "The Imperial Presidency."
In fact, Mr. Bush's political aides have spent a lot of time looking at historical precedents, and they don't always like what they've found. Karl Rove, the president's chief political adviser, is trying to determine if any post-Pearl Harbor lessons should apply as Mr. Bush navigates his way to midterm elections. It turns out that less than a year after Pearl Harbor, Franklin D. Roosevelt's Democrats lost 9 seats in the Senate and 45 in the House. And Woodrow Wilson lost both houses of Congress in 1918. 
Roosevelt also faced civil liberties questions, and may not have given them enough thought. His order to intern Japanese-Americans (an order Congress did nothing to stop) has become, in history's light, the biggest blot on his presidency. And Roosevelt's speech writer, Samuel Rosenman, recalled in his memoirs that while drafting the State of the Union address for 1942, Roosevelt laughed that Attorney General Francis Biddle "has been on my neck" to declare that civil liberties would not be impaired.
Mr. Ashcroft is not suspected of losing sleep over that issue. But, in one of those wonderful oddities of history, President Bush has said his planned tribunals rest on the precedent of Roosevelt's use of a military tribunal to try Nazi saboteurs captured in America.
The citation doesn't please some libertarians. Robert A. Levy, a constitutional scholar at the Cato Institute, for example, wrote that Mr. Bush had gone so far beyond the guidelines under which the Supreme Court upheld the Roosevelt tribunal that "the order as it now stands is illegitmate." (He added, with a dig at Mr. Ashcroft: "Those of us who say so are not, in the attorney general's unfortunate and offensive words, 'giving ammunition to America's enemies.' ")
Nevertheless, in an interview, Mr. Levy allowed that the rules the military has since promulgated give fairly broad protections to defendants, and "take the wind out of the sails of some of the critics."
In the end, then, the outcome of this struggle may well be decided by politics and public opinion. Mr. Bush says "Trust me," just as F.D.R. did. Congress says very little, not because it lacks the power to establish the rules, but because exercising that power risks setting off political dynamite. So, for now at least, Congress has changed the subject -- with a little help from Kenneth L. Lay and Arthur Anderson. 
But, as Mr. Bush never tires of saying, Sept. 11 was a new kind of attack requiring new responses. "If this is going to be a long, twilight struggle," says Professor Rakove, "then maybe we have some time to talk about how to prosecute a strategic campaign against terrorism within constitutional confines. But sooner or later, we do have to start that conversation." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HISTORY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); MILITARY COURTS (70%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CUBA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



845 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY; 
Money Funds Cut Fees As Their Yields Fall

BYLINE:  Compiled by Jeff Sommer

 BODY:
With money market yields dropping to record lows, several money market funds have cut their fees to ensure that investors do not lose money.
 The Invesco Funds Group, Nations Funds and Pioneer Investments have all reduced the expenses they charge to investors, keeping their yields in positive territory. 
 Many investors treat money market funds as bank accounts, at least in part because the value of the funds' shares has never declined. Unlike bank accounts, however, they are not insured, and their yields have declined sharply over the last year. Short-term interest rates have plummeted as a result of 11 rate cuts by the Federal Reserve.
The average yield on taxable money market funds reached a record low of 1.51 percent last week, and tax-free funds fell to 0.92 percent, according to iMoneyNet Inc. of Westborough, Mass. 
The average expense ratio of a money-market fund is 0.61 percent, it said, but expenses charged by some funds threatened to cause losses for the first time. 
So far, at least, no company has been willing to let that happen. 
The Pioneer Cash Reserves fund, for example, which had charged expenses of 1.02 percent to 2 percent on its share classes, lowered its management fee last week by 0.1 percentage point. Its yield is now 0.33 percent, and Pioneer, a unit of UniCredito Italiano, will cut expenses further if needed to keep returns positive, the company says.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (96%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); BONDS (78%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: INVESCO LTD (91%)

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



846 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: South Dakota Takes Center Stage in Political Wars 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: SIOUX FALLS, S.D., Jan. 24 

 BODY:
Unlikely though it may be, South Dakota has become the first battleground in a war of political superpowers. Already, the belligerents are crowding local television news broadcasts with their advertising.
 First came the angry accusations from the Club for Growth, a conservative group based in Washington, that Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader and senior senator from South Dakota, was trying to block essential tax cuts, hurt the economy and hamstring President Bush "in a time of national emergency." 
 Then, in the last few days, came the angry countercharges from Mr. Daschle's organization: that the conservatives behind the first advertisements were bent on rewarding big special interests like Enron, the collapsed energy company, and that they were outsiders so alien to South Dakota values that they once called family farmers "welfare dependents." The announcer solemnly warns, at the end: "These people are not from South Dakota. And they're not like South Dakotans." 
All of this revolves around a man who is not even on the ballot this year. But like Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. in 1982, Mr. Daschle has assumed a kind of uber-Democratic status, thanks to his decision to confront the administration on domestic policy, and the decision by the administration and its allies to present him as the face of Democratic obstructionism.
Now, in Mr. Daschle's home state, where television advertising is comparatively cheap and support for Mr. Bush is strong, some conservatives see an opportunity to humble, distract and ultimately soften up Mr. Daschle for 2004, when he will actually be up for re-election -- or, perhaps, in a race for the Democratic presidential nomination. (In a measure of the speculation, a committee in the Republican-controlled State Legislature passed a bill this week that would not allow him to do both.)
Along the way, conservatives also hope to defeat the Democratic senator who is on the ballot here this year, Tim Johnson, who is now in what is widely believed to be one of the tightest races in the nation. The net loss of one seat would make Mr. Daschle the minority leader.
So South Dakotans are getting ready for an air war. 
"We've got one, no question about it," said Joel Rosenthal, the state Republican chairman. "And it's going to be huge." Mr. Rosenthal added, "I think people are going to get tired of it pretty quickly."
Stephen Moore, president of the Club for Growth, a fund-raising group that seeks to promote economic conservatives, said one of his models was a legendary political action committee from the 1970's and 1980's: the National Conservative Political Action Committee. He said the committee "made liberal a dirty word" and helped bring down a generation of senators who were part of the liberal pantheon, like George McGovern of South Dakota and Birch Bayh of Indiana.
Mr. Moore was delighted that Mr. Daschle responded to his advertisements this week, which he called a sign that the campaign was achieving one of its purposes: "To throw him off balance politically, to make him pay more attention to his constituents back home so he can't just carry the ball on what we see as a very liberal political agenda."
Mr. Daschle said he answered the advertisements because "anytime somebody from out of state comes in with distorted and very unfair attacks, you've got to respond."
Other groups have joined the fray, and more are expected. The Family Research Council, a group of social conservatives, has run newspaper advertisements here denouncing Mr. Daschle and accusing him of not moving fast enough on conservative judicial nominations -- or, new advertisements say, on a cloning ban.
And then, of course, there is the Bush administration. Ranit Schmelzer, Mr. Daschle's press secretary, said, "We think that from the highest parts of the White House, this is, if not directly, then indirectly signed off on." 
The mystery to Mr. Bush's allies is why a state like South Dakota elects a man like Mr. Daschle, who has held his Senate seat since 1986. The state is sparsely populated: it has only one Congressional district. It is decidedly Republican in its presidential voting. The last time it went for a Democratic presidential candidate was 1964. South Dakota is, in some ways, a quintessentially Republican part of the map, voting for Mr. Bush by 60 percent in the 2000 election.
Mr. Rosenthal agrees that Mr. Daschle's success here puzzles national Republicans, particularly given the party's edge in voter registration.
"He's elected in South Dakota, frankly, by a lot of people who aren't in his own party," Mr. Rosenthal said. "They don't vote for him because of his beliefs; they vote for him because they like him."
The personal nature of politics here -- the state has only about 475,000 registered voters -- was evident in conversations with farmers at the Sioux Empire Farm Show here this week.
"Tom's been around, and he knows ag," said Kelly Melius, 35, a farmer who also spoke highly of Mr. Johnson and his Republican opponent, Representative John Thune. "We're such a small state, and they're the only three guys we've got to work with, so you get to know them."
But Colin Hoffman, a cattle farmer from Leola, said that while "as a person, I think he's a nice guy," he felt that Mr. Daschle needed to "come home and listen to his people on several issues," including abortion.
Those feelings, in the view of conservative strategists like Grover Norquist, highlight the dangers for Mr. Daschle. 
"He's from South Dakota, but for the next three years, he'll be the face of the Democratic Party," Mr. Norquist said. "It's easy for Ted Kennedy to be the face of the Democratic Party, because if everyone in Massachusetts knew what he did every day in office, they'd still re-elect him." Not so for South Dakotans, Mr. Norquist maintains, a proposition conservatives intend to test in the coming months.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A campaign advertisement being shown on television in South Dakota by conservative opponents of Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader. (Courtesy of Red Sea L.L.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); FAMILY FARMS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); FUNDRAISING (64%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (55%) ELECTIONS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TIM JOHNSON (58%) TONER, ROBIN; DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); JOHNSON, TIM (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (58%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (99%); INDIAN OCEAN (59%) UNITED STATES (99%) SOUTH DAKOTA

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



847 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Refugee Issue Clouds Visit By Australian To the U.S. 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SHAW 

DATELINE: CANBERRA, Australia, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
Prime Minister John Howard has an embarrassing problem at home over Australia's treatment of illegal immigrants, one he hopes to avoid when he visits the United States next weekend.
 Officials preparing Mr. Howard's schedule say he plans to concentrate on trade and investment while talking up his country's buoyant economy to business executives and government officials at the World Economic Forum in New York. 
 Complicating that plan, however, are the hunger strikes at a detention center in the Australian desert now in their 11th day. Detainees held a noisy rally there today, and one man was seriously injured after climbing over a razor-wire fence.
Militants among the asylum seekers and their supporters have warned that there could be deaths after days of hunger strikes, self-mutilations and attempted suicides at the camp, called Woomera. 
The barracks house about 800 illegal immigrants, many from the Middle East and Afghanistan.
Australia, a nation of 19.3 million people, has been criticized by other countries and international aid groups for its treatment of the immigrants. By way of response, Mr. Howard's government points out that Australia has absorbed five million settlers over the last 50 years and that each year it accepts 80,000 new citizens, including about 10,000 authorized refugees.
The opposition Labor Party advocates releasing about 600 children and their mothers from five camps to welfare centers until their family cases are decided. The government has rejected that proposal.
A growing coalition of church groups, ethnic organizations and civil liberties lawyers, encouraged by news media and United Nations agency support, has advocated replacing the policy of detention with one that uses temporary visas until refugee claims are assessed.
For the past two weeks, scores of the 200 Afghan detainees at Woomera have been mutilating themselves and publicizing it through the news media. Their aim is to reduce long delays, sometimes as long as two years, in settling their claims for refuge and release. 
So far there have been no fatalities although, in addition to the man injured today, one man suffered fractures in jumping from a roof.
Woomera is the largest of a network of Australian centers holding about 2,700 illegal arrivals, most of whom were brought here in the past two years by smugglers based in Indonesia.
Mr. Howard, 62, a conservative re-elected in November for a third term with a bipartisan mandate to deter illegal immigrants, is unmoved by the protesters. He has called their tactics of sewing their lips shut, drinking disinfectant, hunger strikes and threatened hangings a form of blackmail. "We are not going to change detention policy," he said.
His officials also now contend that the Afghans' earlier claim of fleeing persecution by the Taliban no longer applies since that government has been defeated.
The concerns expressed by the public over the treatment of the detainees, still a minority view, according to surveys, has been bolstered by the resignation of the government's principal independent immigration adviser, Neville Roach.
Mr. Roach, a senior electronics executive of Sri Lankan origin who arrived here 40 years ago, said that, "Compassion has been thrown out the door."'
"The asylum seeker controversy is doing serious damage to Australia's multicultural fabric," he said.
The New York-based prize-winning Australian writer Peter Carey, visiting his homeland, founded in 1788 as a British prison colony, said: "A real Australian is by my definition an immigrant. Our ancestors had no idea where they were, and it seems to me that they have much in common with the frightened people in Woomera." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); SMUGGLING (78%); CHILDREN (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); TALIBAN (74%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (74%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); BONE FRACTURES (70%); SUICIDE (54%); RELIGION (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; ASYLUM (POLITICAL); HUNGER STRIKES; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%)

PERSON: JOHN HOWARD (92%) SHAW, JOHN; HOWARD, JOHN (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%) AUSTRALIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); INDONESIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) AUSTRALIA

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



848 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: DIFFERENT STRATEGIES; 
2 in the Energy Business Prove There Are Profits in Old-Fashioned Ways

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
Two days after George Phydias Mitchell sold the company based near here that he built from scratch over five decades into a multibillion-dollar natural-gas giant, he spent this morning the way he spends many Saturday mornings: having breakfast with friends in his hometown of Galveston, at the deli in his local Kroger's supermarket.
 It's a far cry from the high-flying lifestyle of another Texas energy-industry executive, Kenneth L. Lay, who, in happier days, lavished millions on politicians and socialized with the president. Mr. Lay, of course, was forced to resign as chairman of Enron last week, after that company's spectacular bankruptcy. 
 When all the attention is focused on Enron, the energy company-transformed-into-a-trading-giant-turned-dot-com-burst-bubble-with-an-accounting-scandal-twist, companies like Mitchell Energy and another Houston company, Kinder Morgan Inc., have shown that there is another way to do business in the oil patch: the old-fashioned one. These companies, instead of pursuing ventures that even their founders didn't understand, focused on real assets like pipelines and actual oil and gas. While trading can be extremely lucrative, these two companies, among others, prove there is a lot of life left in the fundamentals. 
"You have the Ken Lays of the world who will soon be giving depositions about what the meaning of 'is' is, and then you have George Mitchell," said John E. Olson, an energy-industry analyst with Sanders Morris Harris in Houston. Mr. Mitchell, he said, is "retiring undefeated."
Mr. Mitchell, 82, has in his time also developed The Woodlands, a successful planned community north of Houston, and has restored much of Galveston's architectural and cultural glory.
Equally undefeated is Kinder Morgan, chiefly a pipeline company, which is everything that Enron is not. The company was assembled in the 1990's by Richard D. Kinder, a former Enron president, who decided that there was plenty of money to be made in the mundane business of transporting natural gas, fuels and other materials. With William V. Morgan, another former Enron executive, he bought the stock of the Enron Liquids Pipeline Company.
Today their business is one of the biggest in its segment of the industry, owning and operating a network that includes more than 30,000 miles of pipelines, retail distribution operations, electricity generation plants and terminals for collecting and shipping fuels. Last week the company reported 2001 net income of $225.2 million, compared with $152.4 million in 2000.
"We love the nonsexy businesses that have high cash flow," said the company's president, Michael C. Morgan, who is the son of the co-founder. "The whole strategy from the get-go was to stay focused on assets" like pipelines and loading terminals, he said. "This is basic infrastructure."
The pipeline company, for example, gets 3 cents a gallon for moving gasoline around the country, "whether the cost is $1 at the pump or $3 at the pump," he said. "We have always tried to just stick to the knitting."
The allure of low-risk income has defined the company, Mr. Morgan said. After completing a recent merger with another enegy company, the KN Corporation, based in Denver, the tight-fisted Kinder Morgan immediately sold the three corporate jets and got rid of the $180,000-a-year box at Denver's Pepsi Center. Kinder Morgan also disposed of KN's Enronesque energy trading business as part of the $1 billion sale of assets. "Too volatile," Mr. Morgan said.
Also sticking to the basics of business is Mitchell Energy and Development, which was sold to Devon Energy Corporation of Oklahoma on Thursday for $3.1 billion and the assumption of $400 million in debt and other obligations. Mr. Mitchell himself received $1.3 billion in the sale. 
Mr. Mitchell built his company into one of the nation's largest independent producers of natural gas and natural gas liquids, working mainly from fields in Texas.
His five-decade rise in the energy business is even more startling in light of the company's humble beginnings -- and his own. His father had been a goatherd in Nestani, a town in the Peloponnesus in Greece. When he realized that, as the youngest child in the family, he would receive only a quarter-acre of land as his patrimony, he decided to try his luck in America.
One of his first jobs was on a railroad. When it was time for his father to pick up his first paycheck, George Mitchell said, the paymaster asked the immigrant for his name.
"Savvas Paraskevopoulos," he replied.
"From now on, you're Mike Mitchell," the paymaster said.
Mike Mitchell eventually settled in Galveston and married another Greek immigrant, Katina Eleftheriou. They had four children: George, born in May 1919, was the third. When he enrolled in Texas A&M, he was barely able to pay the $29 a month for tuition, room and board.
After graduating, he went to work for Amoco, but left to join the Army in World War II. When he returned to Texas a year and a half later, he found that those left behind at Amoco had advanced within the company.
But he wondered whether following in their footsteps would satisfy him. A professor had told him, he recalls, that if he worked for an oil company, "You can drive around in a pretty good Chevrolet. But if you want to drive around in a Cadillac, you'd better go out on your own."
Mr. Mitchell took the advice. "I said hell, then I'm going to be a consultant," he recalled.
In the early days, Mr. Mitchell would look over land records and work up the geology and engineering to plan the next hole, while his brother Johnny ran down to the Esperson Drug Store in Galveston to round up partners.
"You didn't worry about the S.E.C. in those days," he said.
He built up a core of supporters in Galveston and Houston, he recalled, and those early partners were "tough as hell" when a well wasn't successful. He especially remembers the response of one, William Zinn, a lawyer. 
"I'd say, 'Mr. Zinn, I'm sorry. This well, I just got salt water.' "
He recalls the lawyer replying, "I don't need salt water. I've got plenty of that here in Galveston!"
In 1952, a friend introduced him to a bookmaker from Chicago who wanted to talk with him about exploring a patch of land in north Texas. "I said, 'How could there be a hot deal in north Texas?' " He said he thought of those fields then as "so moth-eaten the ears are falling off."
But the field turned out to be basically a layer of dirt over an enormous reservoir of natural gas. Mr. Mitchell eventually bought up the mineral exploration rights for 400,000 acres in the area, and it became the mother lode of his business.
Through the ups and downs of the gas market, he built the company. But he says he realized he needed to build more than a company. After visiting the Brooklyn slums of Bedford-Stuyvesant and the Watts neighborhood in Los Angeles in the 1960's, he wanted to do something to reverse the trend toward white residents leaving urban areas. He studied community planning and eventually applied for a $50 million loan guarantee from a Housing and Urban Development program for planned communities.
The result was The Woodlands, with more than 70,000 residents, which sits about 30 miles north of central Houston on 27,000 piney acres. But he says he never lost sight of the notion that his creation, an independent municipality that benefits from Houston's airport, highways and parks, should be absorbed by the larger city. "The Woodlands people should eventually be part of Houston and make Houston work," he says. When he sold the development company in 1997 for $543 million, he had put The Woodlands on a path to eventually joining the city of Houston, though some Woodlands residents have said they would rather remain independent. 
As he built The Woodlands, he also helped rebuild Galveston. He has spent more than $65 million of his own money to buy and restore some 17 buildings in the once-elegant island city, revitalizing its historic Strand district and helping to bring back the town's Mardi Gras celebration, which had faded away during World War II.
Mr. Mitchell's love for Galveston goes beyond restoring its weather-beaten buildings. Richard E. D'Albergo, 58, a Galvestonian whose cerebral palsy limits him to moving around the city on a battered, three-wheeled bicycle, sometimes sees Mr. Mitchell at breakfast with friends, among whom he counts himself. Mr. D'Albergo said he is impressed that Mr. Mitchell, though a billionaire, doesn't act like one, and always seems to have time for conversation. "He's just, to me, down to earth," Mr. D'Albergo said. "He's just like everybody else, you know what I mean?"
He recalled that one day he told Mr. Mitchell he was interested in computers but didn't own one himself, leading Mr. Mitchell to say, "I'll just go see if I've got one that we're not using." Then, said Mr. D'Albergo, "He gave me one." Mr. D'Albergo uses it today to support himself with various small tasks.
Mr. Mitchell and Cynthia Woods married in 1943 and raised 10 children, some of whom remain involved in the business Devon purchased. An avid tennis player, he says he still gets out on the courts once a week. "I play very slowly," he said. "I wore my knees out."
Into his ninth decade, Mr. Mitchell was still demanding that his company innovate. Beneath those initial north Texas reservoirs, Mr. Mitchell discovered an even richer trove of gas trapped in a formation known as the Barnett shale. The company has developed a technology known as light sand fracture that taps the Barnett shale economically.
He's still planning decades ahead at a time in life when many men have stopped buying new suits, or even green bananas. Thanks to the deal with Devon, the Mitchells will own 15 million shares of Devon's approximately 156 million shares, making him a major shareholder. On Thursday, during the brief meeting to ratify the sale of his company to Devon, Mr. Mitchell told fellow shareholders, "You can count on me to keep my eye on them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The center of attention among friends, George Mitchell was at his usual Saturday breakfast yesterday at a Kroger's supermarket in his hometown of Galveston, Tex. Mr. Mitchell is one of a number of Texas energy company billionaires who made their money by relying on business fundamentals. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); CASH FLOW (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); TESTIMONY (70%); ETHICS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (55%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); KINDER MORGAN INC (83%); KINDER MORGAN ENERGY PARTNERS LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MITCHELL ENERGY & DEVELOPMENT CORP; KINDER MORGAN INC; ENRON CORP 

TICKER: KMI (NYSE) (83%); KMP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (53%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: GEORGE J MITCHELL (89%); RICHARD D KINDER (55%) SCHWARTZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) HOUSTON (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



849 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: China Changes Its Approach in the Latest Espionage Incident 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
Last April when an American spy plane collided with a Chinese jet over international waters near China's coast, China's state press was filled with angry rhetoric and its people with indignation. "World Cop Stop the Arrogance," screamed the China Defense News, "Americans, You Are Too Hegemonic," blazed the Global Times -- headlines typical of that time. 
 But this week, the Chinese barely made a peep after a new, perhaps even more shocking, set of espionage revelations came to light: President Jiang Zemin's newly delivered Boeing 767 had been surreptitiously loaded with dozens of listening devices while its interior was being outfitted last year in San Antonio. 
 In its first issue after the story was reported in the foreign media and on the Internet, The Global Times's lead headline was "Bush's Advance Team Is Coming," on a story about the president's much anticipated visit here. Internet chat rooms this week buzzed with talk of pop stars and rumors of stalkers' injecting pedestrians with AIDS-infected blood. At the Chinese Foreign Ministry, officials were distinctly low-key, noting that the bugging, which they called "a stupid action," would have no effect on President Bush's trip to China that begins Feb. 21. 
China's relationship with the United States has been changing dramatically, in tone if not substance, in the last eight months, and the most recent espionage accusations have served as a barometer of that shift.
"I don't know if I'd be so vain as to say the Chinese learned from events of last April," said Adm. Joseph W. Prueher, who was the American ambassador here when the planes collided last spring. "But I think there is now a desire to prevent every event from becoming a crisis and to handle conflict in a less volatile way."
Although the first months of the Bush administration last year were marked by intense hostility between the countries, since last summer Mr. Jiang has increasingly reached out to the United States, supporting its military action in Afghanistan. 
There are many pragmatic reasons for such a change, from China's hope that a more conciliatory tone would help promote its views on the divisive issue of Taiwan, to its desire to avoid the distraction of international crises as it is prepares to host the Olympics in 2008 and to meet obligations as a new member of World Trade Organization. Last spring when the planes collided, China was still tensely waiting to see if it would get the Olympics or be invited to join the trade body.
Perhaps equally important, political analysts here said, is that Mr. Jiang is trying to make his mark as the architect of a new type of foreign policy so that he can stay central to China's politics even after he must formally step down next year. 
And so, two similar espionage events dropped into separate contexts have produced markedly different reactions. The country's change of heart seems complete and dramatic because the central government still controls the media and, to a large extent, outward expressions of public opinion.
The Ministry of Propaganda instructed newspapers and news shows not to report on the incident, and almost all have complied. Following that cue, Internet chat room operators, who are required to monitor postings, said they had been editing out most critical comments about the event to avoid trouble with the government.
In the face of such limited coverage, many Chinese are only dimly aware of the revelation. Those who know about it, mostly intellectuals and college students, say they are upset but not irate. They note that the United States has been more friendly to China of late, and it is still unclear who bugged the plane -- although the assumption on the street here is that Americans did.
"I think much of the anger is there just like last time, but now it's unacceptable and there's no way to show it," said one media commentator. He added that "anything that happens in next few months is going to be handled in low-key way because of the current political dynamic."
The most immediate pressure comes from Mr. Bush's planned visit, an important meeting for Mr. Jiang.
Mr. Jiang has angered many people here by actively supporting the United States in its war against terrorism, even sending Chinese diplomats last fall to press the American cause with Pakistan's leader, Gen. Pervez Musharraf. With such approaches, Mr. Jiang has wooed the Bush administration to a somewhat more moderate position on China, analysts and diplomats said.
"There's a mutual need for each other, and the Chinese want a good atmosphere for Bush's visit, possibly hoping that he'll say something to support China's position on Taiwan," said Gao Chaoquan, acting editor of China's most influential policy magazine, Strategy and Management. 
Also, political analysts here say that President Jiang has made a constructive relationship with the United States a central theme of his foreign policy, and he hopes that success on that front will allow him to continue political life after he retires. Next year, he is expected to become head of Central Military Commission, where his influence will partly depend on his ability to make himself indispensable.
Although the United States preferred a later date for President Bush's visit, Mr. Jiang insisted on a meeting early in the year so that he would have time before his retirement for a high-profile return visit to Washington in the fall, a Chinese journalist said. "He wants to make himself central to foreign policy so that he'll be able to stay on like Deng Xiaoping," said one Chinese political analyst. "And he knows that if he makes this into too much of an incident, he may not get to go to the U.S."
More generally, with war and recession now consuming much of the world, neither China nor the United States can afford to engage in the kind of showdown that occurred after the spy plane collision. 
The kind of extensive, ultra-patriotic media coverage that came on the heels of that incident could gin up popular anger that would be difficult for China's leaders to modulate.
"My roommates were quite angry. They felt America was up to its old tricks and nothing had changed," said Chen Xing, a computer student at Beijing University. But he said that the reaction was "not nearly as intense" as the one last April.
"Since there is no media coverage, people can see this is not the same kind of issue," he said. "Since it involves leaders and the military, it's not just the media -- everyone knows that it wouldn't be sensible to say too much." 
For one thing, any public rendition of the tale would make the Chinese military look either silly or corrupt, because it was supposed to provide 24-hour security for the plane while it was in San Antonio.
It would also emphasize the little-known news that Jiang Zemin had purchased an expensive foreign aircraft with a fancy imported interior. One posting on Beijing University's electronic bulletin board latched onto that fact, asking: "Why buy a Boeing? Isn't a domestically made Bee-2 good enough?"
Many in China who recalled intense fury over the plane collision feel little right now. "I think everyone can see that the relationship between China and the U.S. is better now," said Fu Xiaobin, a graduate student. "I don't think people's basic views have changed, but since 9/11 the U.S. has been talking to China and the countries are finding a new shared interest."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Jiang Zemin has been reaching out to the United States. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (92%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); OLYMPICS (84%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); POLITICS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); AIRLINES (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); WIRETAPPING (70%); AIDS & HIV (69%); CHAT ROOMS (68%) WIRETAPPING AND OTHER EAVESDROPPING DEVICES AND METHODS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ESPIONAGE; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; OLYMPIC GAMES; OLYMPIC GAMES (2008) 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%) ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH; JIANG ZEMIN (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) CHINA; UNITED STATES; TAIWAN

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



850 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE FRONTIER; 
On a Barren, Icy Peak, Border Guards Prevent Escapes Into Pakistan

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: CHAPRI BASE CAMP, Pakistan, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
A two-hour scramble up a trail of crumbling rock, frozen mud and snow leads to an old hunting shelter that a dozen Pakistani soldiers have turned into a two-room headquarters here.
 From a barren promontory on this wild northwestern border, 10,000 feet high in a tribal area that had long rejected Pakistan's army and laws, the soldiers watch the surrounding hills, ready to shoot or to try to capture anyone trying to sneak across from Afghanistan. 
 Other troops simply pause at this hut for breath and hike seven more hours into the thin, frigid air to tent camps along the crest of the White Mountains that mark the border. They stay on the icy peaks, often at elevations of more than 14,000 feet, for eight days at a time, with orders to scour the intervening valleys in constant five-hour patrols.
Down the other side of the peaks is the cave-riddled region called Tora Bora, where the Americans bombed for weeks in pursuit of Osama bin Laden and sent hundreds of his Qaeda fighters fleeing. The soldiers here still hear the rumble of American warplanes, prowling Afghanistan's jagged border zone for remnants of enemy forces. 
The troops here, the first Pakistani soldiers ever to enter this border region, are charged with preventing the escape of Al Qaeda or Taliban forces. Their officers were anxious to counter any impression that Pakistan might have slackened off the task.
"I'm sure that no one could get across this border," said Lt. Sher Ayaz, field commander of the mountain base. "We are patrolling around the clock, and it is not possible."
It is impossible to certify how tight the seal has been. Hundreds of bedraggled Arab and other fighters were captured early on, but in this part of the border, at least, none have been sighted in the last few weeks.
But the arduous efforts of the 4,000 troops assigned to guard the border across the northwest tribal zone are plain to see. Up on the high peaks, the soldiers have to heat snow with burning twigs for drinking water and to endure the frigid winds. Helped by local tribesmen who serve as guides, they carry rifles, binoculars, night-vision goggles and satellite phones.
The border search reflects a sharp turn in Pakistan's foreign policy after the terror attacks of Sept. 11, when Pakistan's leader, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, ended the country's support of the Taliban.
The entry of army troops into this border zone may also prove to be a turning point in Pakistan's domestic history, officials say, as the government makes its strongest push ever to extend authority into the fiercely independent tribal areas. 
The 19th-century British colonial authorities granted autonomous legal status to the Pashtun Muslim tribes of the northwest. Those tribes had long been known for their harsh codes of male honor, blood feuds and aversion to outside control, as well as their generous hospitality and their jirgas, or decision-making assemblies of male elders.
Many had close links with Afghan groups, and with their walled mud houses, turbaned men and burka-clad women, their settlements resemble the ones across the border.
When Pakistan was formed in 1947, the northwestern border tribes kept their special legal status. Most criminal cases, for example, are handled by a tribal jirga rather than by the national police and laws. Tribal chiefs have shared power with officials of the national government.
The border zones remained off limits to the police and the military, allowing rampant smuggling of guns, drugs and electronic goods and the cultivation of opium poppies. 
Many tribal groups are militantly Islamic, too, and had sent men to fight alongside the Afghans against the Soviets. After Sept. 11, thousands of tribesmen, especially from the Bajaur and Mohmand districts, defied the authorities and rushed to fight again, against the Americans.
So when the United States began pressing Pakistan to close the Afghan border, the government faced a delicate challenge. Initially, existing border guards and tribal militias were ordered to patrol. But in December, with the intense American bombing of the Tora Bora region in Afghanistan, General Musharraf decided to send army troops to Pakistan's tribal border zone for the first time ever.
The task was made easier, local people say, by the appointment of Lt. Gen. Ali Muhammad Jalim Aurakzai as northwestern army commander. The commander, who has a tribal background, convened a grand jirga that persuaded tribal leaders to acquiesce, officials say.
The army, in turn, promised to send mostly Pashto-speaking troops and began medical assistance, road building and other activities to benefit the local people, said Maj. Muhammad Amir Uppal, an army spokesman.
Within 24 hours of that grand jirga, the first troops were flown by helicopter onto the border ridges. But after the initial weeks, all supplies have been lugged up the mountains by porters and mules, and the soldiers have had to hike to their posts.
The Chapri base camp is in the Kurram agency, which historically is more developed and has better ties with the government than several neighboring tribal areas. In the nearby Khyber agency, an official said, some tribes opposed the army's entry, and as a result several leaders have been detained.
More than tribal pride is at stake: the presence of the army and outside law could threaten lucrative smuggling and other illegal activities. The interests of tribal leaders and political agents who have personally profited in the past, political experts say, may also be diverging from the interests of the tribal people. 
Now, with an imperative to get firmer control over the border, General Musharraf's government has started a campaign to, as officials benignly describe it, bring the tribal areas "into the mainstream." The government is offering the carrot of more development funds and more representation in the national legislature, as well as the stick of more stringent law enforcement.
Such talk has prompted angry reactions from some tribal leaders.
Last week, thousands gathered just south of Peshawar in the town of Darra to protest against encroachments on tribal independence.
Sayed Yusuf Hussain, the chief of the Bangash tribe here in the Kurram agency, said he had been asked to join that demonstration but refused. "I told them that they are just doing this to protect their illegal activities," he said. "It's people with interests in arms, drugs and fake currency that are protesting. I don't think the tribesmen are supporting them."
"We are treating the Pakistani Army like our guests," he said, making clear that important boundaries of sovereignty remain. "We want to be in the national mainstream. But I would never want anyone to interfere with our jirga system," he added, referring to the Islamic justice meted out by the tribal meetings. "It's fair, speedy and economical."
One local tribesman who did not seem overly concerned is Muhammad Taqi, a gray-bearded man who does not know his own age and who this weekend was cutting scrub oak branches along the trail below the Chapri base camp, for use as cooking fuel. He has made money as a guide and porter for the troops, he said. His face lit up when asked if he was aware of the $25 million reward the United States has offered for the capture of Mr. bin Laden.
"I saw those pamphlets that the Americans dropped, and I've been looking all over for Osama," he said. "But maybe my luck isn't so great this time," he added with a laugh.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pakistani soldiers at their camp on the northwestern border with Afghanistan. They are to shoot or capture anyone trying to cross into Pakistan. (Joao Silva for The New York Times) Map of Pakistan highlighting the Chapri base camp: Pakistani soldiers set up headquarters at the Chapri base camp.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TALIBAN (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); ARMIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); HIKING (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); HIJACKING (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP); TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (57%) ECKHOLM, ERIK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



851 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 42 words

HEADLINE: JANUARY 20-26; 
COMING UP

 BODY:
 President Bush meets with Hamid Karzai, the Afghan leader, on Monday, and delivers the State of the Union address on Tuesday. The World Economic Forum begins meeting in New York on Thursday. The January employment report will be released on Friday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); AFGHANISTAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



852 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2212 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Homestore Fights for Life as Bad News Piles Up

BYLINE:  By MIGUEL HELFT

 BODY:
WHEN Homestore.com, the nation's largest online real estate company, reported an unexpected third-quarter loss on Nov. 1, executives there blamed Sept. 11. 
 A steep drop in advertising had derailed nearly triple-digit revenue growth, they said. The next day, investors cut the value of Homestore shares by more than half. 
 If only the company's problems were so simple. It is increasingly clear that the troubles at Homestore, a Westlake Village, Calif., company that operates the site for the National Association of Realtors, started much earlier and ran much deeper. 
A stream of bad news, including disclosures of accounting irregularities, has poured out in recent weeks. Homestore, which until late summer was hailed as an online powerhouse in the making, is now a ghost of its former self. Its rapid rise and fall place it among some of the biggest flameouts of the Internet bubble, with some of its harshest critics even likening it to the Enron debacle.
On Jan. 7, Homestore's board installed new management, saying that Stuart H. Wolff, the founder, chairman and chief executive, had left "to pursue a new technology venture." The same day, trading in Home store's shares resumed on Nasdaq, which had halted trading on Dec. 21, when the company disclosed that its accounting was being audited internally. 
On Jan. 2, after preliminary audit results, it said it might have to lower stated advertising revenue for the first nine months of 2001 by as much $95 million, out of the $121 million it had reported. Some analysts are bracing for more bad news. 
"They've said the patient has a broken bone, but we don't know what it is, a pinkie or a skull," said Lanny Baker, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney.
Homestore, which late last year also lost its chief financial officer and other senior executives, is facing more than a dozen shareholder suits contending that executives sought to prop up the stock by painting a rosy, and misleading, picture of company finances. The suits also contend that Mr. Wolff, and trusts he controls, sold as much as $13.2 million in Homestore shares from July 2000 to December 2001, while the stock price was still high. 
Mr. Wolff declined to comment on the suits but said his departure was not tied to the recent problems. "There is no relationship between my leaving and the accounting inquiry," he said, adding, "I would encourage everybody to wait for the facts before they draw any conclusions."
The new management team includes three veterans of the WebMD Corporation, an Internet health company, including the new chief executive, W. Michael Long. They face the difficult task of rebuilding a company that had grown at breakneck speed through more than two dozen acquisitions.
"There were too many conflicting priorities at Homestore," Mr. Long said. "The challenge is to zero in on serving our core constituency of real estate professionals."
The new team has taken swift steps to try to restore confidence. The audit committee has hired outside legal and accounting experts to help with the review, the company said. On Jan. 16, the company dismissed or accepted the resignation of seven more employees and said it might take "additional disciplinary measures before the inquiry is complete."
THE company faces skeptics among customers and investors, some of whom regard it as the latest tale of Internet hype fueled by overconfident managers and willing Wall Street analysts. 
Homestore's shares traded as high as $138 in January 2000, giving the company a market value of nearly $10 billion. By Friday, they had fallen to $1.62, wiping out all but $190.3 million in shareholder value. In November, Cendant, which owns about 18 percent of Homestore, told its own investors that it might have to write down the entire value of its Homestore investment.
Homestore's roots date to 1996, when the real estate industry saw the Internet as a threat to a prized possession: the listings of houses for sale, which are controlled by brokers and agents and grouped regionally by industry-controlled Multiple Listing Services. For decades, home buyers had to go to a broker or agent to gain access to listings. But businesses like HomeAdvisor, part of Microsoft's MSN unit, and an Internet start-up called Homeseekers.com had begun putting listings on their Web sites, challenging the role of agents and brokers as gatekeepers -- and threatening to erode their commissions on home sales. 
The Realtors' association had begun its own online effort, but after it spent millions, its site was in disarray and its board was ready to shut it down. 
At the time, Mr. Wolff, a scientist with an entrepreneurial drive, was scouring the Internet for a business opportunity. After stumbling on the Realtors' site, Mr. Wolff, who had a doctorate in electrical engineering from Princeton and no experience in real estate, persuaded the group to let him run the site. He raised some $7 million from investors and started the company, giving the association a 4 percent stake. 
Mr. Wolff and his team aggressively canvassed listings services nationwide, offering them cash and warrants in Homestore before it went public in exchange for exclusivity. Within six months, the site, Realtor.com, had access to one million listings, or more than 90 percent of the houses for sale in the country. 
Through its relationship with the Realtors' group and exclusive deals with many listing services, it outflanked its rivals, who often had to go directly to agents and brokers. (Homestore's exclusive relationship with listing services set off a yearlong antitrust inquiry by the Justice Department; the inquiry ended in July 2001 with no enforcement action.)
In the late 1990's, Homestore continued to grow quickly, signing marketing deals with various Internet portals. It also acquired more than two dozen companies so it could provide technology services to its growing list of real estate professionals and establish itself as the leading online destination for all things related to real estate. 
The acquisitions included a Web hosting service for real estate brokers' sites; a site of home listings from the National Association of Homebuilders; SpringStreet.com, an apartment listing site; technology for virtual home tours; and HomeFair.com, a moving site. Homestore went public in August 1999, raising about $140 million. In a secondary offering in January 2000, it raised an additional $429 million. 
Its biggest acquisition came last February, when it bought Cendant's Move.com site and the Welcome Wagon direct-marketing unit for about $757 million. The deal gave Homestore 40 years of exclusive access to all houses listed by Cendant's Century 21, Coldwell Banker and ERA franchises. It also made Cendant, which bought services from Homestore on behalf of its franchises, one of its biggest customers.
Though Homestore reported four profitable quarters on a pro forma basis, which excludes many expenses, it never actually made money.
Still, it won nearly unanimous approval on Wall Street. Some of the nation's biggest investment firms put Homestore on their recommended lists, and until mid-2001, all but one analyst following the company rated it a buy or a strong buy. As late as early September, company executives continued to promise a surge in earnings.
Homestore's downfall was swift. On Oct. 3, the company reduced third-quarter estimates, blaming the Sept. 11 attacks. Three weeks later, it laid off 700 workers, about 20 percent of the work force. Then it announced the quarterly loss. Though its net revenue nearly doubled, to $116 million from $62.2 million in the third quarter of 2000, it had a net loss of $106.6 million, compared with a net loss of $27.1 million in the period a year earlier. 
At the core of Homestore's accounting problems, which were first disclosed less than two months later, was its heavy reliance on unreported barter transactions, the company said. Yet many details of the deals are not yet known, and analysts are puzzling over the magnitude of the inflated revenue.
In reporting one of the first results of its investigation, Homestore said it booked $54 million to $95 million as ad revenue in the first three quarters of 2001 that it never received in cash. Instead, the ads were traded with advertisers for undisclosed goods and services.
Swapping ads was common in the heyday of the Internet bubble. But most companies kept barter revenue at less than 10 percent of their total. The practice has largely stopped since the online advertising market began to crumble in early 2000. 
Jonathan Cohen, a fund manager at JHC Capital Management in Greenwich, Conn., the former head of Internet and software research at Merrill Lynch, said the last time barter revenue was significant in the industry was in the late 1990's. "I can't recall any Internet company," he said, "with a barter revenue issue of this magnitude."
More unusual in Homestore's case was that the barter transactions were not simple ad swaps, but exchanges of ads for goods and services, the value of which Homestore appears to have vastly overstated, said Brett Trueman, an accounting professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley. 
According to the shareholder suits, Home store was forced to end its barter deals when its main barter partner, which was not identified, stopped doing business with it. 
The scale was akin to what "went on at Waste Management, Sunbeam and Enron," said Darren J. Robbins, a partner at the San Diego offices of Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach, a law firm that filed a suit against Homestore on behalf of shareholders.
Critics say the accounting fiasco suggests lax oversight on the part of Homestore's directors. "The board should have known," said Nell Minow, the author of three books on corporate governance. "Their job is to ask very hard questions. By definition, they failed to do that here."
Joe F. Hanauer, a board member since 1996 who was appointed chairman after Mr. Wolff's departure, defended the board's actions. As soon as there were signs at a November board meeting that the accounting did not follow accepted standards, he said, "the board took upon itself to do a very detailed inquiry." 
Homestore's other directors either declined to comment, were unavailable for comment or did not respond to requests for comment.
Homestore faces another possible headache, arising from a dispute with its key marketing partner, AOL Time Warner. The companies signed a complex marketing agreement in the spring of 2000 under which AOL received $20 million in cash and 3.9 million shares. The agreement protected AOL against a drop in Homestore's share price and could end up costing Homestore as much as $90 million more in cash. 
According to documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the agreement has been submitted to arbitration because of what Homestore says is AOL's "breach of certain of its obligations under the agreement."
An AOL spokeswoman, Wendy Goldberg, said, "We have more than met our promotional commitments to Homestore." 
MR. WOLFF always spoke of Homestore as a partner with real estate professionals, but almost from the beginning, the company annoyed many within the industry. 
Its main source of revenue is subscriptions paid by brokers and agents for an array of services, like prominent listings on Realtor.com and various technology and information feeds for their own Web sites. The subscriptions range from about $430 to $1,100 annually. 
Many agents and brokers resented that after they had helped build Realtor.com by providing listings, they were being forced to pay Homestore high rates for technology services -- or merely for being displayed prominently on the site. 
The company retains important assets, including relationships with the Realtors' association and Cendant's franchises, and it says it has 369,000 real estate professionals as subscribers to its services, accounting for 58 percent of revenue. Its various Web sites remain leaders in their fields. 
Many agents, meanwhile, report getting few leads from Realtor.com, and a sizable number may not renew, analysts and others in the real estate industry say.
For four weeks, Mr. Long, the chief executive, has been crisscrossing the country to meet with customers and employees. He acknowledged dissent among customers, saying Homestore failed in the past to make some technology and services effective and easy to use for many professionals. 
"Customers have been forthright with their concerns," Mr. Long said. "I feel that every customer is willing to give the company the benefit of the doubt that we will address the issues that they have."
Some remain skeptical. On Jan. 14, after the board of the Multiple Listing Service of Northern Illinois threatened to pull the plug on its feed to Realtor.com because it had not been paid, Mr. Long met with the group's board. Homestore agreed to keep paying $1 a listing but made clear that it would not be able to do so beyond this year, said James M. Kinney, president of the listing service and of Rubloff Residential Properties, an independent real estate firm in Chicago.
After the meeting, Mr. Kinney said, one question lingered in board members' minds: "Can they reinvent themselves before they run out of money or time?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: W. Michael Long, left, took over this month as chief executive of Homestore.com, and Joe F. Hanauer is the new chairman. (Kim Kulish/Corbis SABA for The New York Times) Chart: "Troubles at Home"Homestore.com is struggling to reinvent itself, plagued by a sagging share price and recent announcements of accounting irregularities. AUGUST 1999 -- Initial public offering raises $140 million JANUARY 2000 -- Second public offering raises $429 million APRIL 2000 -- Receives request for information from Justice Department in antitrust inquiry MAY 2000 -- Forms marketing alliance with America Online SEPTEMBER 2000 -- Starts iMove.com, a joint venture with five moving companies OCTOBER 2000 -- Agrees to acquire Move.com from Cendant for $757 million JULY 2001 -- Justice Department inquiry is closed with no action taken SEPTEMBER 2001 -- Acquires iPlace, a provider of online credit and neighborhood information DEC. 21, 2001 -- Announces accounting inquiry after internal audit; trading is halted JAN. 7, 2002 -- New manage-ment team is put in place; trading resumes (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Homestore.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUSPENSION OF TRADING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); AUDITS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); RETAILERS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); BONE FRACTURES (63%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: WEBMD HEALTH CORP (61%); MOVE INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%) HOMESTORE.COM INC (HOMS) 

TICKER: WBMD (NASDAQ) (61%); MOVE (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (61%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (58%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL J LONG (89%) HANAUER, JOESPH F.; LONG, W. MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



853 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Power House; 
Greed, Pain, Excesses. Oh, What a Lovely Issue.

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
ONCE they express their requisite sympathy for stockholders and investors in Enron, many Democrats are downright giddy over the company's implosion. Not since Watergate and Richard M. Nixon's cozying up to corporate bigwigs wielding bags of money, they say, has their party had such an ideal vehicle to arouse the citizenry and skewer a Republican president as favoring monied interests.
 "It's Teapot Dome," said Jim Hightower, the former Texas agriculture commissioner who has built a career on speaking for the disenfranchised. "It's a perfect populist crusade." Though, unlike the Harding administration scandal, no one in this administration is known to have acted illegally regarding Enron. 
 Stanley B. Greenberg, who helped devise a populist theme for Al Gore in the 2000 presidential campaign, said the Democrats' rallying cry in the November elections should be: "The greed is real. The pain is real. The excesses are real." 
And the reality is that the issue could be potent for the Democrats, though some are wary of rushing headlong into making Enron a political issue and caution that the company spread its bounty to both parties. Yet Enron was far more generous to Republicans and has closer ties with Republican officials in government.
Republicans are especially vulnerable because Enron reinforces the long-held perception that their's is the party of big business and the rich. The White House is already a target because the administration is stocked with officials formerly involved with the oil industry in Texas. Even religious conservatives, a powerful constituency for the Republican Party, are grousing that their president is showing more fealty to corporate titans than Christian leaders.
Adding to the image of a party more attuned to corporate interests than ordinary Americans was the recent election of Marc Racicot as Republican Party chairman. He refused to sever his ties to a law firm that has lobbied extensively for Enron and other companies. The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll, published today, underscores the image of a White House run by the upper crust. It reports that 61 percent of Americans say big business has too much influence in the administration. And 50 percent said the administration's policies favor the rich; only 14 percent said they favor the middle class.
Democrats may have the best opportunity to capitalize on Enron if they do not retreat to the simplistic anti-big business slogans of decades past. Nearly a century ago, President Theodore Roosevelt scored by demonizing the Standard Oil Company as representing the evils of the newly sprouting corporate giants -- and shattering it into 34 pieces.
While the age of trustbusting is long gone, Democrats could portray Enron as symbolizing the evils of a new corporate economy fostered by giant stock purchases and multinational companies. They can expand their argument and point to other disastrous business collapses, like Kmart, as evidence that corporations are running roughshod over working people. "If they're smart, the Democrats' strategy should be to make Bush into another shifty-eyed J. R. Ewing," said Kevin Phillips, the political analyst who wrote "The Politics of Rich and Poor." "If they dig deep enough, they can strike gold: that this guy has been up to his neck in every facet of the oil business in Texas, and it often hasn't reflected well in his judgment."
But turning Enron into a big-business-versus-the-little-people bonanza for the Democrats could be more knotty than it seems -- and not just because Enron spread its largess to Democrats as well.
For one thing, Democrats can no longer fully disassociate themselves from industry. President Clinton courted big business -- and it was his White House that presided over an era of prosperity for corporate America.
There is also a history of populist crusades falling flat. Most recently, voters were not altogether convinced in the 2000 campaign when Mr. Gore ridiculed the Bush tax cut proposal as "a form of class warfare on behalf of billionaires."
In the 1980's, the Democrats' drive to make villains of junk bond trading firms backfired, as did President Harry S. Truman's brazen seizure of big steel companies in 1952. "Standing up for the little guy will always be part of Democratic Party politics," said Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana, chairman of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council. "But we suffer from the stereotype of resenting people who have been successful even if they have done nothing wrong. We don't want to play into that stereotype."
There is no question that Enron can help Democrats stir up the party faithful, just like Whitewater galvanized hard-core conservatives. The question is whether the Democrats can broaden the appeal of the issue.
To do so, they cannot merely repeat the party's mantra that Republicans favor the rich, but would have to take the argument to the next step: not only that Republicans are responding to corporate interests, but that they are doing so at the expense of ordinary citizens. Even some religious conservatives have accused the administration of overlooking their interests in favor of big business. Many were furious when, at the Republican Party's winter meeting in Austin, Tex., this month, the party installed Lewis Eisenberg, an abortion rights activist who has contributed to Democrats, to head the party's drive to raise money. Mr. Eisenberg's appeal: he's close to business and knows how to get big donations.
"It was a terrible appointment," said Gary Bauer, a conservative who ran for the Republican presidential nomination in 2000. "Couldn't they find a chief fund-raiser who actually agreed with the party's platform?" 
On the other side of the political spectrum, Mr. Hightower said it would not be sufficient for Democrats to assure voters that "we're on your side." He said the party needed to take its argument several steps forward. "We need to wrap up not just the corruption of money in politics but the actual damage to people and pensions and the disrespect for workers and the flim-flam of the new economy," he said.
Recognizing that such populist appeals could succeed, Mr. Bush, in a striking change of tone, said last week he was outraged by the conduct of Enron, and noted that his own mother-in-law had lost more than $8,000 in Enron shares.
AS part of their offensive, Republicans are seeking to shift the spotlight to Democrats who took Enron donations, and they portray the Enron debacle as a business scandal with no partisan bounds. In fact, White House officials are questioning why regulators in the Clinton administration did not pick up on the transgressions at Enron.
Dismissing the Democrats as trying to politicize the Enron collapse, Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director, said, "The American people are savvy enough to understand the difference between political rhetoric and fact -- and the fact is that the administration did not make any attempts to help Enron."
James Carville, the Democratic consultant, countered that the question is not whether the administration acted to save Enron. "It's not what they did when they went belly up," he said. "It's what they did when Enron had money."
But, like many other Democrats, Mr. Carville is not free of Enron entanglements. He said he agreed to deliver a speech last October for the corporation for his usual big fee. The company went belly up, so he never could offer his words of wisdom. But chances are, his remarks would not have been about corporate greed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tourists can still gather on the south side of the White House, but vehicles have been rerouted off E Street and concrete barriers have been installed. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TRENDS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ETHICS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); RELIGION (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%) ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; ETHICS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); STANDARD OIL CO (61%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (88%); AL GORE (58%) BERKE, RICHARD L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



854 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds Enron's Taint Clings More to G.O.P. Than Democrats 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE and JANET ELDER 

 BODY:
Americans perceive Republicans as far more entangled in the Enron debacle than Democrats, and their suspicions are growing that the Bush administration is hiding something or lying about its own dealings with the Enron Corporation before the company filed for bankruptcy protection, the latest New York Times/ CBS News Poll shows.
 Even among Republicans, a majority said they believed that the administration had not been forthcoming about its dealings with Enron. That perception could pose a threat to Republican candidates in the midterm elections this year, and undermine the White House drive to portray the Enron collapse as affecting Republicans and Democrats equally. 
 In a demonstration of how the public's concerns have shifted in recent weeks, the economy has now supplanted battling terrorism -- albeit by a slight margin -- as the issue people want their elected officials to make a top priority. They fear that the budget deficit is too much of a burden for the nation, and 6 in 10 favor postponing the Bush tax cut rather than incurring a deficit. 
President Bush's impressive approval rating of 82 percent has not diminished since the terrorist attacks. As Mr. Bush prepares to deliver his first State of the Union address on Tuesday, neither party is seen as having an edge on keeping the country prosperous, improving education, balancing the federal budget or making the proper decisions about how to spend taxpayers' money.
Still, while Mr. Bush on Tuesday hopes to galvanize the public behind his economic prescriptions and his stewardship of the war, it is unmistakable from the survey that he must also contend with the twin political predicaments posed by Enron and the economy.
The White House has sought to portray the collapse of Enron as affecting business but not having political ramifications because the company was generous to Democrats as well as Republicans. But this poll shows, for the first time, that Americans associate Enron much more closely with Republicans.
In fact, Republican Congressional candidates begin this midterm election year with the albatross of being considered far more tied to Enron than their Democratic rivals. The poll's respondents were nearly five times as likely to say Enron executives had closer ties to Republicans than to Democrats.
Republicans were nearly twice as likely to say their own party's ties were closer to Enron than the Democratic Party's ties. 
The nationwide telephone survey of 1,034 adults was taken Monday through Thursday. Most of the interviews were conducted before the Congressional hearings into Enron began on Thursday. About half of the respondents had been interviewed when Mr. Bush, in a sharp change in tone, expressed his outrage over Enron's conduct. The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
In the last week alone, the portion of people who say they are paying attention to the Enron collapse has risen to three-fourths from two-thirds -- and more people view it as a Republican problem. While a majority of Americans say the Bush administration is either hiding something or lying about Enron, people who have been paying very close attention to the corporation's unfolding collapse were even more likely to hold those views.
"In terms of campaign financing, Enron had closer ties to the Republicans," Charles Sarver, 29, a Republican who is a collections company manager in Lexington, Ky., said in a follow-up interview. "I don't feel, as far as we know now, that any political favors were given out." 
But Mr. Sarver added: "There's always a chance in influencing which way a tax bill might go, for instance. It's, 'Look, I'm going to make sure I take care of you, when it gets time for this bill, and you take care of me.' "
Roy Marshall, 58, an air-conditioning sales representative in Albany who is an independent, said: "I think the Bush administration knows more than they're telling, but I think all politicians do that. Are they lying flat out? I don't think so."
Americans said that big business wielded too much influence, not just with the Bush White House but also with members of Congress of both parties.
The accounting and other practices that contributed to Enron's fall were seen by respondents as not surprising in the business world. Seven in 10 said such practices were widespread in other large corporations; only 1 in 10 said Enron was an isolated case.
Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political adviser, said bluntly in a speech last week that Republicans' performance on the war and fighting terrorism could be a winning issue in the fall election. Indeed, the poll found that the Republicans' strength is perceived to be the party's ability to protect the nation by keeping the military strong and by making the right decisions about fighting terrorists.
Perhaps because of his high profile on the war, Mr. Bush is now seen as fully in charge of what goes on in his administration. More than half the respondents said Mr. Bush was in charge, while 4 in 10 said others were running the government most of the time. Last March, shortly after Mr. Bush took office, the figures were reversed.
Most Americans said they would judge the success of the war in Afghanistan by whether Mr. Bush made good on his vow to capture or kill Osama bin Laden. More than 6 in 10 say the United States will not have won the war unless Mr. bin Laden is captured or killed. Even so, a majority of Americans continue to say that the war is proceeding well. They also registered support for expanding the war to other countries where terrorists may be hiding, like Iraq, Somalia and the Philippines -- even if those countries refuse to assist.
While Republicans are given high ratings on maintaining a strong military and fighting terrorism, Democrats are viewed as more likely to make sure the tax system is fair, protect the environment, improve the health care system and make the best decisions about Social Security.
Democrats may be heartened that people still favor many of the domestic proposals that were on the front burner before Sept. 11. Americans support fundamental changes in the health care system. A majority say that reducing the cost of prescription drugs for the elderly matters significantly to them personally. More than half the respondents say that protecting the environment is so vital that requirements and standards cannot be too high -- and improvements must be made no matter the cost.
Women were more concerned about these matters than men, especially on health care and prescription drugs.
Reflecting the steadfast support for Mr. Bush on the war but holding reservations about him on other issues, David Olson, 34, a security consultant from Portland, Ore., an independent, said: "Certainly our battle with terrorism continues to be significant. And I support Bush in the way he is handling that. I'm not in full agreement with his tax plans and his handling of the economy. The budget deficit needs to be dealt with as one of the top priorities for the government."
Ted Detwiler, 71, a retired awning salesman in Hamilton, Mont., emphasized his worries about health care. "Everybody was waving the flag for the first month or two," said Mr. Detwiler, a Democrat. "But if you don't have insurance and can't get to the doctor, the war is pretty far away."
Beyond Enron, a looming problem for Mr. Bush is that Americans still say his signature legislation, the tax cut, will not make much difference to the economy and is not the best way to manage the nation's finances.
More than 7 in 10 Democrats and 6 in 10 independents said they would rather put off cutting taxes than incur a deficit. Even Republicans were evenly divided. All demographic groups said it was a bad thing for the nation to run a deficit.
Even as Republicans have failed to convince Americans that the tax cut is a good idea, Democrats have been unable to persuade the public that the deficit stems from the tax cuts. About a third of the public blames the deficit on the war, a third on the recession and a tenth on the tax cuts. Still, more than 4 in 10 said important domestic programs were being hurt because of the tax cuts.
In a trend that may spell trouble for the White House, people generally say the country is headed in the right direction, but the number who say things have gone seriously off track is rising.
As for their own finances, a majority of Americans say they are having trouble paying their bills. Only a quarter say their family's financial situation has improved over the last year.
The poll also found that the Republicans' drive to make a high-profile villain of the Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, has not succeeded. He is still a virtual unknown. Eleven percent of Americans have a favorable impression of Mr. Daschle, 15 percent unfavorable, 18 percent undecided, and 55 percent have not heard enough about him to have an opinion.
Vice President Dick Cheney is far better known, but not entirely a household name. He has a favorable rating of 39 percent, 11 percent unfavorable, 21 percent undecided and 28 percent have no opinion.

How the Poll Was Conducted
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Monday through Thursday with 1,034 adults throughout the United States.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country.
Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the margin of sampling error is larger.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.

GRAPHIC: ChartExecutives of the Enron Corporation had closer ties to members of which party? REPUBLICAN: 45%DEMOCRATIC: 10BOTH EQUAL: 10NO OPINION: 34 The collapse of the Enron Corporation is of what importance to the nation? GREAT: 39%SOME: 44VERY LITTLE: 8NO OPINION: 9 Poll conducted by The New York Times and CBS News. (pg. 1) Chart: "Public Images of the Two Parties"Opinion of the Democratic Party? FAVORABLE: 58%UNFAVORABLE: 24%NO ANSWER: 8 Of the Republican Party?FAVORABLE: 58%UNFAVORABLE: 33%NO ANSWER: 9 REPUBLICAN ADVANTAGES Which party is more likely to . . . . . . make sure U.S. military defenses are strong?REPUBLICAN: 67%DEMOCRATIC: 18% . . . make the right decisions when it comes to dealing with terrorism?REPUBLICAN: 57DEMOCRATIC: 15 EVEN MATCH-UP . . . make the right decisions about balancing the federal budget?REPUBLICAN: 44DEMOCRATIC: 39 . . . make the right decisions about how the government should spend taxpayers' money?REPUBLICAN: 42DEMOCRATIC: 40 . . . make sure the country is prosperous?REPUBLICAN: 41DEMOCRATIC: 38 . . . improve education?REPUBLICAN: 39DEMOCRATIC: 42 DEMOCRATIC ADVANTAGES . . . make sure the tax system is fair?REPUBLICAN: 36DEMOCRATIC: 49 . . . make the right decisions about Social Security?REPUBLICAN: 31DEMOCRATIC: 48 . . . improve the health care system?REPUBLICAN: 28DEMOCRATIC: 51 . . . protect the environmentREPUBLICAN: 23DEMOCRATIC: 57 Based on interviews conducted with 1,034 adults nationwide Jan. 21 through 24. Those who gave other answers are not shown. (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); ETHICS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%) PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP; CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BERKE, RICHARD L; ELDER, JANET; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



855 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-13

China Espionage Reaction Shows Altered Ties to U.S.
China's mellow reaction to the most recent accusations of espionage by the United States has served as a barometer, illustrating the dramatic change in tone, if not substance, in relations between the nations over the past eight months. 6

New Protests in Argentina
Thousands marched again to demand that Argentina's president ease austerity measures, but in seeking solutions he faces divisions even within his own party. 8

NATION CHALLENGED 14-17

Powell Requests Review Of Bush's Stand on Prisoners
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell has asked President Bush to declare that the United States is bound by the Geneva Conventions in its treatment of the captives in Afghanistan and at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, administration officials said. 1

Artifacts From Ground Zero
Architects, museum experts, city officials and others are amassing scraps from the World Trade Center -- raw materials for exhibitions and a memorial that do not yet exist. 1

A Muslim's Duty
The meaning of "jihad" is causing consternation for the world's 1.2 billion Muslims. The interpretation goes to the heart of President Bush's war on terrorism. 1

NATIONAL 20-33

Voters See Republicans As Closer To Enron
Americans see Republicans as more entangled in the Enron fall than Democrats, and many said they believed that the Bush administration had not been forthcoming, the latest New York Times/CBS Poll shows. 1

Day Laborers Struggling
The economic decline in the Northwest has pushed day laborers from agricultural areas into cities, where many are finding little or no work. 20

Pollution Claims in Court
In one of four major lawsuits, thousands of people in Anniston, Ala., claim that PCB contamination from a Monsanto plant has led to reduced property values, emotional distress and health problems. 20

Two Votes Make a Mayor
In Penn, Pa., population 475, two write-in votes for a noncandidate create a reluctant victor. 20

Political Battleground
South Dakota has become a battleground in a political advertising war, a fight revolving around a man who is not even on the ballot this year: Senator Tom Daschle. 24

New Princeton Professor
Princeton trustees approved the hiring of K. Anthony Appiah, a scholar of black studies at Harvard. 26

U.C.L.A. Buys Sontag Archive
The literary archive of the author Susan Sontag, which includes essays, scripts and diaries, has been purchased by the U.C.L.A. Library. 29

NEW YORK/REGION 35-39

New Jersey's Budget Deficit Is Called Worst in Nation
Analysts in government and on Wall Street say New Jersey's budget deficit, which amounts to 12 percent of its $24 billion budget, is the worst in the nation. Nonetheless, the state is likely to come up with a solution before the fiscal year ends in June. 35

Brooklyn Trolley Effort May End
An idealistic 20-year effort to return trolleys to the streets of Brooklyn, where they were once so plentiful the borough named its baseball team the Trolley Dodgers, may be ending. 37

Neediest Cases 37

OBITUARIES 41

Chess 40
Weather 42

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); CITIES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); APPROVALS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); WAR ON TERROR (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); RELIGION (67%); TERRORISM (67%); WRITERS (67%); LITIGATION (63%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (63%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); LITERATURE (60%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%); MONSANTO CO (53%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (53%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); TOM DASCHLE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARGENTINA (94%); CHINA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CUBA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



856 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Who Said Economics Is Dismal? It's Party Time 

BYLINE:  By ALEX KUCZYNSKI

 BODY:
REM KOOLHAAS, Peter Gabriel, Jenny Holzer and Bono are alighting in New York this week, but not for a movie premiere or the opening of a multimillion-dollar clothing boutique.
 No, they will arrive in their black T-shirts and wraparound sunglasses for what has long been known as the world's largest cocktail party for the elite, an extravaganza open only to millionaires, heads of state, corporate leaders, cultural and academic figures and a few dozen others who influence the world economy. It comes with a price tag: about $20,000 a head. 
 For the last 31 years, the event -- the World Economic Forum, a five-day conference where some of the world's most influential people gather to discuss finance, economics, sociology, culture and technology -- has taken place in seclusion in Davos, a Swiss ski village.
Attendance has always been a badge of some social honor, like Renaissance Weekend in the Clinton years. It has traditionally been a small group of people who could say, passing at a cocktail party, "See you at Davos?" -- a comment that is the intellectual version of the Louis Vuitton graffiti bag. And now, for the first time, largely because of security concerns arising from the Sept. 11 attacks, the forum is moving to New York. 
About 3,000 participants will be meeting at the Waldorf-Astoria from Thursday to Feb. 4 to discuss heady topics including "The Designing Mind" and "Dance and Diversity," dine at the glitziest restaurants, go sightseeing and shop. American officials including Secretary of State Colin L. Powell will mingle with Bill Gates of Microsoft. Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton will be able to share canapes. Manhattan lacks Davos's ski slopes and cozy kitchen-cabinet appeal, but the city can hold a proper party. No offense to Helvetian culture, but Switzerland is better known as the land of neutrality, not the land of Nobu sake-tinis.
"What, why would you ever have it anywhere but New York?" exclaimed Julian Niccolini, an owner of the Four Seasons restaurant. "Beh! Everyone in the world is here already! This is the center of the planet. The capital of the world."
So the participants, who pay their own airfare and hotel bills, will be wined and dined on Saturday night with cocktails and dinner on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, not at the nice but drowsy Congress convention center in downtown Davos. Elton John is providing the entertainment for a party at the Four Seasons. Le Cirque? Booked solid.
They will gossip at the reception that the German media executive Hubert Burda is giving at the Brasserie on Wednesday. For those foreigners who like American football, not futbol, McKinsey & Company, the consulting firm, has dibs on the Super Bowl with a Four Seasons party.
Gregory Carr and Peter Gabriel will share honors as hosts at a dinner party at Mr. Carr's Fifth Avenue penthouse in honor of Witness, a foundation that addresses human rights issues.
The "Friday Nightcap" given each year by the Forbes brothers, Steve and Robert, at the elegant but rather stiff Steigenberger Belvedere hotel in Davos will take place this year at the "21" Club. The usual crowd -- a quiet group of perhaps 100 -- has swelled this year, to 266. Bill Clinton and political figures like Hamid Karzai, the leader of the interim Afghan government, have been invited to the Nightcap -- where, by the way, guests will be encouraged to leave their bodyguards outside for crowd-control purposes.
The guests will feast on mini Maine crab cakes with curry-carrot dipping sauce, and will wash it all down with a Galet des Papes Vielles Vignes Chateauneuf-du-Pape, a southern Rhone considered so hip, so painfully du moment, that oenophiles refer to it as the Narciso Rodriguez of wine.
Monie Begley, a spokeswoman for the Forbes brothers, said that "21" was chosen by them "because it is so American, and this is a time for us to honor America as best we can." (And, she added, it's fun. The Belvedere hotel doesn't have toy airplanes hanging from the ceiling.)
The Forbes brothers will rub elbows with luminaries like Howard Stringer, the chairman of the Sony Corporation of America (his close friends call him "Sir Howard"); Mike Medavoy, the chief executive of Phoenix Pictures; the Internet and technology guru Esther Dyson; Bryan Moss, the vice chairman of Gulfstream Aerospace; and Princess Firyal of Jordan.
Since Sept. 11, said Charles D. McLean, a spokesman for the conference, two-thirds of the agenda has been torn up and reworked to reflect the issues confronting the world after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
The sessions in Davos were held in a conference center, and small lunches, big dinners and other events took place in the wood-beam dining rooms of ski hotels that dot the village and act as a great leveler. "Just try getting a suite in one of the big hotels and you'd find it was impossible," said a South African mining baron. Indeed, Mr. McLean said, part of the experience there for the bigwigs of business was finding themselves in cramped hotel rooms with 40-watt light bulbs and drawers that jammed. "It was like summer camp for them," he said. Well, maybe.
Jane Stanton Hitchcock, a novelist who is married to Jim Hoagland, a columnist for The Washington Post, accompanied her husband to a Davos forum several years ago when they were courting, and said New York will be infinitely better.
"The Davos hotels are pretty sparse," she said. The good ones always fill up first. "The rest of them . . . well, they ain't the Ritz."
How about the Waldorf?
"Oh, everyone will be very happy," she said. "Hot water, fluffy towels. My, oh, my. The Swiss are very spartan people."
And she said it struck her that this conference was one where people could hobnob and strut their stuff.
Ms. Hitchcock recalled that at Davos each conference member was given a an e-mail address. Her husband would log on "and it would say he had 98,000 messages," she said.
"Mine would say, you have none," she added. "That was one way to measure who was important and who was . . . well, me."
Some frequent participants in the conference said that it wasn't really necessary, but that the schmooze factor made it worthwhile for some.
"The whole thing is a farce," said one foreign government official who will be visiting New York for the meeting and who has been to several Davos conferences. "It's basically structured to make a lot of wonky guys from the World Bank feel important.
"Peter Gabriel? I don't even know who that is."
(He put the phone down and was heard asking his secretary, "Es Peter Gabriel un politico aleman?")
Michael Kinsley, the editor of Slate, said he would attend precisely because the conference will be in New York. "I want to see what it's like in New York," he said.
"A lot of people are disappointed," he added, "because they like the idea of going to a village in Switzerland. But I think after New York it will never go back to Davos. I am sure everyone who goes regularly is going to say: 'Oh, it's been ruined. Now we can never go back to Davos.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: SHAKE THAT EURO -- Peter Gabriel will be a host at a party during the World Economic Forum in New York. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); GRAFFITI (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); SKIING (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (65%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); AIR FARES (60%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (81%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (68%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (68%); LVMH (BIT) (68%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (68%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (68%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HUBERT BURDA (54%); BILL GATES (50%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); ELTON JOHN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



857 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: PCB Pollution Suits Have Day in Court in Alabama 

BYLINE:  By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: ANNISTON, Ala., Jan. 25 

 BODY:
These days, Edgar C. Stroud grows his collard greens in five-gallon buckets filled with soil bought from Wal-Mart.
 He has done so ever since the man from the Environmental Protection Agency tested the dirt in his garden two years ago. 
 " 'Do you eat stuff out of this garden?' " Mr. Stroud said the man asked, somewhat ominously. 
"Yes," Mr. Stroud answered.
" 'Well, I wouldn't,' " Mr. Stroud said the man advised.
As is the case across west Anniston, Mr. Stroud's garden is laced with high levels of polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCB's, presumably from the plant three blocks away where the Monsanto Company produced the suspected carcinogen for nearly four decades.
During those years, St. Louis-based Monsanto flushed tens of thousands of pounds of PCB's and other toxic wastes into Snow Creek each year, sending the chemicals meandering through long-established neighborhoods and into Choccolocco Creek. More than 45 tons of PCB's, a highly efficient industrial insulator, were discharged in 1969 alone, according to company documents. Monsanto also deposited millions of pounds of PCB's in a hillside landfill just above the plant.
Thirty miles away, in Gadsden, Ala., a jury is hearing a lawsuit filed by Mr. Stroud and more than 3,500 other plaintiffs who contend that Monsanto and its chemical division, Solutia Inc., should compensate them for reduced property values, emotional distress and, in some cases, health problems related to the PCB contamination.
It is one of at least four major Anniston-related lawsuits against Monsanto and Solutia that have been filed by a total of 25,000 plaintiffs. Two of the cases have already been settled, for a combined $80 million.
Because of the difficulty of seating an unbiased jury in Anniston, Judge Joel Laird Jr. of state Circuit Court moved the trial to Gadsden.
In the first two weeks of testimony, the plaintiffs' lawyers have established through Monsanto memorandums that the company was aware of the level of its discharges and that it at least partly understood the risks as early as the mid-1960's, if not earlier. But it did not begin improving pollution controls until 1970, a year before it stopped making PCB's in Anniston. The company continued to produce PCB's elsewhere until 1977, two years before the federal government banned them.
A witness for the plaintiffs testified on Thursday that PCB levels in the blood of many plaintiffs was elevated. The 16 plaintiffs in the first phase of the trial had average PCB levels of 46 parts per billion, 27 times the national norm, said Dr. Ian Nisbet, a Massachusetts toxicologist and a consultant for the plaintiffs.
"This is by far the most contaminated community -- as indicated by the levels in their blood -- that I've ever encountered," Dr. Nisbet said.
Because science remains murky on the health effects of PCB's on humans, those plaintiffs who maintain they have been personally injured by Monsanto may have difficulty proving their cases. But Anniston is rife with anecdotes about high and persistent cancer rates, particularly about children who developed tumors after frolicking in and around Snow Creek.
David B. Baker, the president of Community Against Pollution, a local health and environmental group, said that his brother died at 17 of brain and lung cancer after growing up near the Monsanto plant.
"It seems like everybody in these neighborhoods has cancer," said Mr. Baker, while driving through streets where contaminated houses have been bought and leveled by Monsanto and replaced by chain-link fences bearing "Danger" signs.
The trial, he said, has given the community hope.
To illustrate the health risks of PCB's, lawyers for the plaintiffs have relied on Monsanto's own memorandums, many of them marked "Confidential -- Read and Destroy." 
A 1966 letter by a Mississippi State University scientist who was hired by the company to test creek water disclosed that 25 fish, when submerged in Snow Creek, "lost equilibrium and turned on their sides in 10 seconds and all were dead in three and a half minutes."
A 1970 report revealed that a blacktail shiner caught in Choccolocco Creek was found to have 37,000 parts per million of PCB's in its fat, making it "the most contaminated fish I've ever heard of in the wild," Dr. Nisbet said.
Lawyers for Monsanto and Solutia said they could not discuss the case because of an order imposed by Judge Laird. But in the past, they have maintained that the companies acted fairly in dealing with the city, that they spent more than $40 million on environmental testing and cleanup and that PCB contamination cannot be definitively linked to long-term health problems.
"We would all rather live in a pristine world," said Jere White, a lawyer for Monsanto and Solutia, in his opening argument two weeks ago. "We are all going to be exposed to things on a daily basis. Our bodies can deal with it."
For decades, many in Anniston had no idea that their neighborhoods were polluted or that their health could be at risk. But now, thanks to the lawsuits, the intervention of the federal government and the work of community groups, this city of almost 25,000 people seems to be defined by its environmental burdens.
In addition to the PCB problem, there are new concerns about mercury releases from the Monsanto plant and the Army's plans to incinerate toxic gases at its depot here.
"We're infamous," Mayor Hoyt W. Howell Jr. said. "The accumulation of the issues of the past have all come to a head at one time, and that's hard to handle." 
Mr. Howell said it was hard to pinpoint the effect of Anniston's environmental problems on economic development efforts, but said it was clearly one factor that has stymied the city. "We're between Atlanta and Birmingham on I-20," he noted, "and the prosperity of the 1990's was barely felt here."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Sunday about a lawsuit over the discharge of PCB's in Anniston, Ala., referred incorrectly to one of the two defendants. Solutia Inc. is a chemical business that was spun off from the Monsanto Company, the other defendant. It is not Monsanto's chemical division.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edgar C. Stroud grows his collard greens in buckets since the E.P.A. warned him about PCB's in his garden two years ago. The site in Anniston, Ala., is three blocks from a Monsanto plant that produced the chemical. (Jacob Langston for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (91%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); CHLORINE (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); JURY TRIALS (87%); LITIGATION (87%); TESTIMONY (87%); TOXICOLOGY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); WITNESSES (75%); PLASTICS (74%); LAWYERS (72%); LANDFILLS (72%); CARCINOGENS (70%) WATER POLLUTION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS; PCB (POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS) 

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (92%); SOLUTIA INC (84%); STROUD'S (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MONSANTO CO; SOLUTIA INC 

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (92%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (92%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%) SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESINS; 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (56%) ALABAMA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%) ANNISTON (ALA)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



858 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Spending a little to publicize the need to raise a lot to vaccinate children.

BYLINE:  By Allison Fass 

 BODY:
IT costs only $30 to immunize an infant against preventable diseases like measles and mumps, according to the Vaccine Fund, a worldwide organization that raises money for universal immunization. So why is the organization spending dollars to advertise this week at the World Economic Forum?
 "We would like to spend all our money for the immunization of the children," said Jacques-Francois Martin, president and chief executive at the Vaccine Fund, based in Lyons, France, but "without a brand, we won't be able to raise any more." 
 "We are a very new organization," he added, only two years old, and "we need to work to really be associated with the idea of working for children and saving lives." 
So the organization is promoting its efforts to the world's economic and political decision makers who will attend the forum, which starts on Thursday. It is the first of the forums to be held in New York City, after 32 years in Davos, Switzerland.
As for concerns about the cost of the campaign, the Vaccine Fund is spending about $60,000 for production and media placement -- far less than a typical ad campaign promoting a product would cost. The creative work is being donated by the Vancouver office of Grey Worldwide, part of the Grey Global Group. 
"There are children out there who are dying from diseases that they don't have to die from, because the cure is already out there," said Jeff Lewis, creative director at the Grey Vancouver office. "When you have children -- I've got two kids -- I think you start caring about all children, quite frankly."
The campaign, scheduled to begin today, is centered on print and outdoor ads presenting expressive photographs of children from many backgrounds raising their hands with fingers forming the V for victory sign, which also of course could be read to stand for "vaccine."
Each ad shows the V as a letter in a sentence that forms a headline as well as in the sentence that serves as the theme of the campaign, "Every child. Every where."
For example, in one ad, the V symbol forms the V in "Victory over disease," and in another, it appears in "Believe in miracles." Other examples include "Millions will be saved," "World's best value" and "Share our vision."
"It helps if you have some kind of a device, a symbol, a set of words, that makes people remember you or makes people take notice of your particular cause," Mr. Lewis said.
"With the AIDS ribbon, nobody even has to say anything," he added. "You wear it on your lapel and everybody knows what you're supporting."
The ads will appear in a daily conference newspaper published by Earth Times News, as well as on telephone kiosks within three blocks of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, where the forum is being held. The ads will appear in brochures to be distributed to reporters covering the forum and at a fund-raising dinner on Saturday at which the featured guest will be Queen Rania of Jordan, a member of the Vaccine Fund board. Video versions of the ads have been developed to be shown at presentations the organization holds as well as for possible use as public service announcements on television.
The Vaccine Fund will also promote its work at the Winter Olympics with another campaign with Olympic Aid, a humanitarian organization with athletes in principal roles. The Olympics campaign will include commercials produced for cost by Intersport, a marketing company in Chicago, that feature athletes like Dorothy Hamill and Marion Jones. The spots will be shown on giant screens in Salt Lake City.
Executives of the Vaccine Fund said they hoped the campaign would assist in raising $1 billion for vaccination efforts by 2005, in addition to the more than $1 billion the organization has already raised. The goal is to increase the percentage of children in poor countries being vaccinated each year to 80 percent from 56 percent.
"With $2 billion over five years," Mr. Martin said, "we can save 15 million lives."
The organization works with the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization, which is composed of groups including Unicef and the World Health Organization. Most of the Vaccine Fund's money so far has come from a $750 million donation from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, announced in 2000.
Mr. Lewis said he was thinking of Winston Churchill when he came up with the idea to use the V for victory hand sign rather than the peace symbol. He added that he was not initially aware of a big campaign for Verizon Wireless that uses the sign to stand for the brand name.
Brenda Raney, a spokeswoman for Verizon Wireless in Bedminster, N.J., owned by Verizon Communications and Vodafone, said the company was not concerned about the Vaccine Fund campaign.
"The reality is that's a universal symbol," she added. "Through the ages it's had several different meanings."
The campaign was to have started in September in conjunction with a special session of the United Nations devoted to children, but it was postponed, like the session itself, because of the terrorist attacks. The executives of the organization hope to use the campaign when the special session takes place in May.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The universal hand sign for victory is at the center of a campaign for the Vaccine Fund. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (91%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUMPS (90%); MEASLES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TRENDS (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (70%); PHILANTHROPY (65%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (65%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (59%) VACCINATION AND IMMUNIZATION; PHILANTHROPY; ADVERTISING; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM; WINTER GAMES (OLYMPICS); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

COMPANY: GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (58%); GREY WORLDWIDE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%) VACCINE FUND; GREY GLOBAL GROUP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

PERSON: MURRAY D MARTIN (56%) FASS, ALLISON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LYON, FRANCE (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (77%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (55%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (77%); SWITZERLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



859 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
Compaq's efforts to sell directly to consumers are paying off. But whether it can seriously challenge Dell remains a question.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
FOR years, the Dell Computer Corporation has charmed investors and new-economy converts by selling directly to customers, online and via the phone. Such an approach allowed it to sell PC's more cheaply and efficiently than its competitors had, thereby moving the company from also-ran to market share leader.
 For just as long, investors have listened to the promises of Dell's rivals, most notably the Compaq Computer Corporation, which has pledged to sell more of its products directly to consumers and corporate customers, and at least slow Dell's march to dominance. As those promises remained unfulfilled and the computer market slumped, Compaq's stock price tumbled, leaving Dell the lone star of the Texas-based PC makers, and leaving Compaq to pin its hopes on a merger with Hewlett-Packard. 
 But there are signs that Compaq is coming around, if a little slowly. Not only did the company far exceed analysts' expectations in its latest earnings announcements -- reporting earnings of 5 cents a share despite a sluggish PC market -- but executives said its direct-selling approach had finally kicked in. Without it, the company said, the recent results would not have been possible. 
Michael J. Winkler, Compaq's executive vice president for global business units, said 59 percent of the company's sales in the United States were made online or by phone and shipped directly to customers in the fourth quarter, compared with 43 percent in the similar period a year earlier.
Mr. Winkler said that by relying less on resellers to handle inventory, and by streamlining its internal manufacturing processes, Compaq had $2.5 billion less of inventory sitting on its shelves and those of resellers in the fourth quarter of 2001 than in the similar period in 2000. (Roughly $1.7 billion of that inventory had been held by resellers.)
The inventory management savings alone, Mr. Winkler said, cut $28 from the cost of each PC sold. "When you ship over four million units in a quarter," as Compaq did in the final quarter of 2001, "you're talking over $100 million a quarter in savings," he said. In part because of those savings, he said, the company increased profit margins on all PC's by three percentage points in the fourth quarter. (Compaq would not disclose its actual profit margins.)
Not only is less inventory sitting on the shelves, Mr. Winkler said, but it is sitting for less time. In the fourth quarter of 2001, Compaq sold off its inventory at about the same rate as Dell, analysts said, and twice what Compaq achieved a year earlier.
Depending on which analyst you choose to listen to, Compaq's direct-selling assertions are either worthy of praise or pessimism. 
Dan Niles, an analyst with Lehman Brothers, is among the believers. "They've definitely started to turn the corner," Mr. Niles said. "They could've made themselves look better this year by not getting rid of excess inventory, but you have to do that to get to a model that's closer to Dell's."
Mr. Niles said the company spent much of 2001 selling off excess inventory at prices that virtually guaranteed losses. "But since they suffered for about a year, they're going to reap rewards the rest of the way," he said. "They need to get the PC business to the point where they're running at even a slight profit."
He estimated that $3.7 billion of Compaq's $8.5 billion in sales in the fourth quarter were PC's. It also sells servers and other computer equipment. "If you take care of the PC side, the rest of the business, which has higher margins, should be able to come through."
Marty Gruhn, an analyst with Summit Strategies, a consulting firm in Boston, agreed that Compaq deserved respect for its direct-selling improvements. Ms. Gruhn, who evaluates the online-selling efforts of computer manufacturers, among others, said: "Compaq has a much stronger and much more detailed strategy of selling on the Web than a year ago. It's not even close."
Like most large companies, Compaq is also getting a significant, but undisclosed, part of its online sales from Internet and proprietary connections it sets up exclusively with its bigger corporate customers.
In the last year, Compaq said, it has refined its online relationships with companies like Microsoft, the Walt Disney Company and others. Previously, corporate buyers at those companies would log onto a Compaq site to view the products their companies have allowed them to buy.
But in some cases, these buyers would have to follow a different purchasing procedure than if they had used the company's internal procurement system, thus diminishing the employees' willingness or ability to buy through the Compaq site.
In the last half of 2001, Compaq began integrating its online catalogs directly into the procurement systems of its corporate partners, increasing the online orders from those companies to 90 percent from 30 percent. Such orders are at least $25 cheaper than those taken by phone or other means, Compaq said.
Compaq reached the pinnacle of the computer industry with the help of distributors and corporate resellers, so its move to a direct model -- which can cut those companies out of the transaction -- has not been entirely smooth.
Anthony Penzarella, an analyst with IDC, a research and consulting firm, said some resellers "have stopped selling certain vendors' products in the past year because they did not appreciate being circumvented in the sales process." That was especially true when PC makers aimed at the small and medium-size business market, a high-growth market that "is clearly the territory" of resellers, he said.
As an example, Mr. Penzarella noted that according to IDC's estimates, Compaq's indirect channel sales -- those going through resellers and retailers -- dropped 55 percent from 2000 to 2001. That drop, he said, could help account for the fact that, as a percentage of overall sales, Compaq's direct sales have increased.
Compaq denied that its indirect sales had decreased. "A distinct portion of the market will always prefer" doing business with resellers, Mr. Winkler said, and Compaq is "not cutting them out." He added that the company had eased problems with big distributors and smaller resellers, in part, by giving them commissions for shipments Compaq makes directly to customers.
For instance, Mr. Winkler said, when a reseller sells multiple computers to a corporation, Compaq often ships that order directly to the corporation. The reseller gets a commission of 4 percent to 8 percent, "and since they don't have to take inventory, it's much more profitable for them."
By establishing more direct relations with its end customers, Compaq is "doing more than just saving a couple of dollars on each box," said Daniel Kunstler, an analyst with J. P. Morgan. "You're also engaging the customer a little more, establishing a relationship." That, he said, can help Compaq earn bigger sales with the customer in the future.
But it remains to be seen whether Compaq can make such hopes materialize, Mr. Kunstler said, particularly because Dell remains a formidable competitor. "Dell has a history of doing direct selling, and they can withstand quite a bit of margin pain over a long time," he said. "So I don't want to disparage Compaq's efforts, but they've got some distance to go." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Compaq says it is relying less on stores, including the CompUSA in Manhattan. The company said 59 percent of its sales were online or by phone in the fourth quarter. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SALES 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (94%); DELL INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (94%); DELL (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



860 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Hard Choices As Andersen Defends Itself 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER with EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Enron's collapse is forcing Arthur Andersen, the company's auditor, to make hard decisions about its strategy, including whether to sell off its consulting practice and how to reassure and retain partners overseas. 
 Analysts and an executive at one consulting firm that is a potential buyer for Andersen's consulting practice said that Andersen was at least exploring that option with consulting firms and computer manufacturers. 
 "We've had consulting firms and product companies tell us that they are interested in buying Andersen's consulting business," said Dean McMann, chief executive of the Ransford Group, a Houston consultant that advises professional services firms. "I can't confirm that anyone's in discussions right now to buy it, but firms say they have had some discussions with them recently." 
An Andersen spokesman, however, said yesterday that the sale of the firm's consulting business was not even under consideration. "There have been absolutely no discussions inside this firm, at the director level or at the senior management level, for the sale or dissolution of all or portions of the partnership," said Charlie Leonard, the spokesman. "It is reckless and misleading to suggest that there is any factual basis for that claim."
The growing number of lawsuits against Andersen, as well as recent disclosures about document destruction and accounting lapses, have left its overseas partners jittery about the possible cost and the potential damage to Andersen's name, once one of the best in the accounting business. More than half, or $4.9 billion, of Andersen's $9.3 billion in revenues for the year ended Aug. 31 came from overseas. 
Because the foreign offices of a major accounting firm are relatively independent, groups of partners have sometimes switched firms. So far, however, partners at Andersen's offices around the world say they are staying put, at least in part because they do not want to lose the benefit of compensation packages in the strong United States dollar, packages that are related to dollar-denominated contracts with clients. 
"We are not even thinking about separating from Andersen," said Yang Seung Yoo, managing partner of Korea Andersen. "We still have very strong trust."
He acknowledged, though, that Andersen's apparent role in Enron's collapse was a problem for the firm. "We are in a very difficult situation," he said. 
Partners at some offices, and some entire offices, are more likely than others to switch allegiances, said Mr. McMann, adding that such movement was fairly common in Mexico. 
Andersen's chief executive, Joseph. F. Berardino, says the company is considering changes in its operation. But these changes will not include the sale of the consulting business, the firm says. 
Andersen's consulting services made up $4.7 billion of the firm's revenue last year. Consulting work accounted for slightly more than half of the $52 million in fees that Andersen received from Enron in 2000.
Critics have blamed accounting firms' consulting services for creating conflicts of interest. Andersen's accountants may have gone too easy on Enron, they argue, to hold on to lucrative consulting projects. Executives at some possible buyers of Andersen's consulting unit said that Andersen had been exploring deals for pieces of the business.
The sale of the consulting business would give Andersen the cash to help it battle the extensive litigation against it. But the market for consulting firms is much weaker than it was a year or two ago, analysts say, because of the recession. Some potential buyers, like another Big Five accounting firm, may therefore be reluctant to buy. More likely would be a corporate purchaser, like I.B.M., Hitachi or Compaq.
Andersen's efforts to exploit the benefits of consulting contributed to its split from Andersen Consulting, a former sister company now known as Accenture. 
Andersen built up a consulting practice of its own that Andersen Consulting considered competitive. The two entities were ultimately split apart by an arbitrator in 2000.
But the broad category of consulting services also includes much that a prospective buyer may not want, said one executive at a Big Five firm. A would-be buyer may not want the businesses of selling tax advice, analyzing financial data of acquisition targets or reviewing employee benefit plans.
"Most companies that are talking to them would strip out financial advisory services," said one executive at a potential buyer. That would complicate any transaction, he said.
Overseas, some of Andersen's partners are thinking about protecting their own careers. "A lot of people are making contacts, saying, 'If we want to jump ship, would you be interested in us?' " said one executive at one of Andersen's rivals. 
Andersen's overarching structure has partnerships in each nation where it operates. Partners worry about liability for any wrongdoing in the United States.
"If this unravels -- and that's a big 'if' because no one knows where this is going to go -- it becomes each country on its own," said Arthur W. Bowman, editor of Bowman's Accounting Report. Partners must weigh the benefit of staying with Andersen and keeping access to some of its international clients against the chance of sharing in any Andersen losses in the United States.
It would not be unusual for individual partners or even entire groups of partners to shift their allegiances, Mr. Bowman said. Just last fall, Andersen acquired Price Waterhouse Management Consultants, part of the French consulting business of PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
But because of Andersen's tightly knit partnership structure and resulting institutional loyalty, Mr. Bowman said, he would expect the firm's members to be reluctant to leave. 
"The dissolution of the worldwide practice would seem a bit premature because there's no proof yet that Andersen is not going to survive this," he said. "But as I said earlier, people do start looking out for their own interests."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); ETHICS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); US DOLLAR (66%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (63%); COMPUTER MAKERS (56%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CONSULTANTS; ETHICS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (59%)

ORGANIZATION: ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO; ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (59%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: GLATER, JONATHAN D; WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



861 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: State Lures Good Jobs, but Companies Worry About Workers 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: JACKSON, Miss., Jan. 25 

 BODY:
When Mississippi won the great economic prize of 2000 -- the billion-dollar Nissan truck factory now rising like a white plateau along the interstate north of town -- few people wanted to discuss publicly the state's most serious shortcoming. Could it really find enough skilled workers to fill Nissan's 4,000 high-paying jobs? 
 It was a bit delicate to say out loud, but Nissan had sharp questions for state officials about Mississippi's lack of experience in high-tech manufacturing, and its traditionally poor educational record. Publicly, the company proclaimed its faith in the state's strong work ethic, but privately it got state government to pay $80 million to train its workers, as part of Mississippi's record-setting $300 million incentive package. 
 But now, two years later, another automaker has expressed interest in building its own billion-dollar factory in Mississippi, and suddenly the concerns about the size and quality of the state's work force have emerged full force in an unusual rift between Nissan and the state. Nissan is not happy about the possibility of sharing the work force with another big company, while state officials have made it clear that one big manufacturer is never enough.
For the last few months, it has been no secret around the country's statehouses that the Hyundai Motor Company, based in South Korea, has been shopping for sites for its first American factory, paying particular attention to Mississippi and the South. At least half a dozen governors and members of Congress have recently traveled to South Korea on "trade missions" that were mostly thinly disguised sales pitches, and the president of Hyundai spent the last week with a variety of elected officials at large open fields around the country. On Friday, the company confirmed that it had narrowed its choices to Mississippi, Alabama, Kentucky and Ohio, with an announcement expected soon.
Gov. Ronnie Musgrove of Mississippi traveled to South Korea last month, and many residents near Pelahatchie, about 30 miles southeast of Canton, where Nissan has its plant, knew perfectly well why men in suits had recently been admiring their countryside. But a few days before the governor left the country, he received a terse and pointed letter from Jim Morton, senior vice president of Nissan North America, regarding the possibility of "another automobile company" coming to central Mississippi.
"While I understand that Mississippi wants to attract other automobile-related manufacturing to this state, I would be greatly concerned if this new site is located within 80 miles of our Canton facility," wrote Mr. Morton. "A location in this region would severely impact the potential work force for Nissan and its suppliers." He warned that any future expansion of the Nissan plant would be significantly affected by the location of a competing plant.
The letter clearly irked state officials, who had presented Nissan with an unprecedented subsidy package and resented the implication that the state's populous center could handle only a single large employer before running out of suitable workers. Last week, after the letter was first published in the Jackson Clarion-Ledger, Mr. Musgrove said that to limit the state's growth in any way would severely hamper Mississippi's economic development.
"I work hard every day to bring high-quality, good-paying jobs to our state," the governor said. "When a company expresses an interest in Mississippi, we show them the entire state. The decision of whether or not to locate, and where to locate, is made by the company." 
Twenty years ago, it was the easygoing relationship between workers and employers that first attracted automakers to the South, where a quarter of all American-made cars are built. The car companies liked the absence of many unions and the lower average wage in the region, and did nothing to discourage the desperate competition among poor Southern states offering to pay their way into the global economy. They did not mind training workers, but only in states with a substantially higher high school graduation rate than Mississippi's.
In the fall of 2000, Mississippi battled back with its big incentive package and aggressive plan to train its workers. 
But the number of applicants for Nissan's jobs has not been as large as expected. Nissan had hoped to choose from a pool similar to the 130,000 names it received in 1983 for its plant in Smyrna, Tenn., but it has received 36,000 applications. Curt Thompson, executive director of the Mississippi Employment Security Commission, said he nonetheless remained confident that the state could supply enough workers for the Nissan plant and the 2,000 jobs that Hyundai would create, along with associated suppliers.
"We have lost 16,000 manufacturing jobs in the last year, and 24,000 over the last two or three years," Mr. Thompson said. "I realize that not all of those people would necessarily fit in an automotive plant, but we will do everything possible to expand our training efforts to come up with whatever an employer needs." 
The training offer was crucial to Nissan's decision, said Mark M. Sweeney, a consultant in Greenville, S.C., who worked on the Nissan project. Mr. Sweeney said that most large employers carefully measure the work ethic and experience level in the states on their list, interviewing other employers about rates of absenteeism and the quality of training, and Nissan knew that Mississippi was a bit of a gamble. 
"It was definitely an issue, part of the challenge of the decision, and that's why the state got particularly aggressive on the training incentive," he said. "I think the same is still true for Hyundai. Nissan and its suppliers are now on the ground gearing up, and I'd be a little nervous if I came in at a peak draw period in close proximity to them."
The big automakers, with cash to spend and red carpets wherever they step, enjoy being enormously selective in doling out jobs. In a state like Mississippi, which has one of the nation's lowest rates of labor participation -- the percentage of able-bodied people who work -- the companies want the luxury of rejecting a large number of people for every job.
"If you know you're going to be highest-paying employer in the area, you're going to look very carefully at the people who apply for jobs," said David Cole, president of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. "When you're an automaker, you want to be the king dog in your state." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%) AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS 

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (82%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (58%); NISSAN NORTH AMERICA INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NISSAN MOTOR CO; HYUNDAI MOTOR CO 

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (82%); 005380 (KSE) (82%); 7201 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (82%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (82%)

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (96%); OHIO, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) MISSISSIPPI

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



862 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 758 words

PERSON: James L. Usry 

HEADLINE: James L. Usry, Atlantic City Mayor in 1980's, Dies at 79 

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
James L. Usry, who in 1984 became the first black man to be elected Atlantic City's mayor but was defeated six years later in the middle of a municipal corruption scandal, died Friday at a nursing home in Galloway Township, N.J. 
 He was 79 and had been suffering from diabetes and cancer. 
 Mr. Usry, a Republican who was a middle school teacher, principal and assistant schools superintendent, first ran for public office in 1982, when he narrowly lost the mayoral election to Michael J. Matthews. But two years later Mr. Usry succeeded Mr. Matthews, who was under indictment for bribery and recalled from office. 
In 1990, Mr. Usry was indicted on charges of conspiracy, official misconduct and bribery -- one of 15 people accused by the state of taking part in an influence-peddling ring. Voters turned him out of office that year, even as most of the government's case against him appeared to collapse. He eventually pleaded guilty to a campaign finance law violation and was sentenced to 60 hours' community service working for the Salvation Army. 
Mr. Usry said he was on painkillers after a shoulder operation when a local businessman gave him an envelope containing $6,000, and that the money he received was to be used for a children's charity.
James Leroy Usry was born in Athens, Ga., on Feb. 2, 1922, and moved with his family to Atlantic City as a toddler, at a time when jobs for blacks in the deeply segregated resort city were ample but usually menial. The racial divisions that kept the black resort workers to their own part of the city, and even their own section of beach, deepened and festered as the city's fortunes declined in the 1950's. 
Municipal corruption also seemed, through a stretch beginning in the 1960's, to have become endemic. Three of the five mayors before Mr. Usry were indicted and were either convicted or pleaded guilty to crimes ranging from campaign law violations to bribery.
Mr. Usry's election to City Hall appeared to many people to presage a change in that pattern, because he seemed to have risen above Atlantic City's many problems and disadvantages. 
A soldier in World War II, he served in Africa and Italy with the 92nd Infantry Division, part of a famous segregated unit called the Black Buffaloes. He also worked his way up through Atlantic City's hospitality industry to become maitre d'hotel at the Club Harlem on Kentucky Avenue in the 1940's, and also played professional basketball for a time for the Harlem Globetrotters and the New York Renaissance. 
A graduate of Atlantic City High School, Lincoln University in Pennsylvania and Glassboro State College (now Rowan University), Mr. Usry devoted most of his career to education, as a teacher and school administrator, and was widely praised for his involvement with his students and with the community. He was 60 when he finally decided to run for city office.
In 1984, Gov. Thomas H. Kean said that Mr. Usry's campaign represented a vivid example of the "politics of inclusion," a trend that Mr. Kean said he hoped would sweep through New Jersey's cities, eroding racial and economic divisions. Mr. Usry returned the praise, calling himself a "Kean Republican" who supported the governor's efforts to broaden racial and ethnic participation in state government.
But Atlantic City's wounds did not heal. As mayor, Mr. Usry became an advocate for housing, education and affirmative action programs that would benefit the city's poorer residents, and was credited with planning the redevelopment of the Northeast Inlet neighborhood, one of Atlantic City's most blighted areas. But he drew fire for what other residents said was his lukewarm boosterism of the city's economic base, its casino and hotel industry. 
After he left office, the question of his prosecution became yet another element in Atlantic City's ongoing racial drama, with many people, especially blacks, arguing that he had been the victim of racism. 
Mr. Usry kept a mostly low profile in his last years. He became a substitute teacher in the city's public schools and served as a trustee at Lincoln University, occasionally surfacing publicly to help celebrate an old friend's birthday, but never again venturing back into politics. In an interview with The New York Times in 1995, when he was 73, he said he had stopped worrying about the past, and how he might be remembered.
"I've met the Queen of England," he said. "I've been to Africa, Europe and Israel." All in all, Mr. Usry said, he'd had "a good life." 
Mr. Usry is survived by his wife, Laverne, and four stepchildren. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: James L. Usry (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); MAYORS (91%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); BRIBERY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (88%); MISCONDUCT (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); SCANDALS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); RACE & RACISM (73%); SENTENCING (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); WORLD WAR II (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (71%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (70%); CONSPIRACY (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (67%); CHARITIES (66%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (64%); BASKETBALL (60%); DIABETES (57%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: THE SALVATION ARMY (55%)

USRY, JAMES L; JOHNSON, KIRK 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); ATHENS, GA, USA (54%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (51%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



863 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: States Look To Cigarettes As Way to Cut Big Deficits 

BYLINE:  By PAUL ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
Nowadays, cigarettes are not just for smoking. In New York, Connecticut and more than a dozen other states facing budget deficits, cigarettes and other tobacco products, ignored for years by legislatures with plenty of cash, are once again for taxing. 
 Following a routine playing out in state capitals around the country, Connecticut's governor, John G. Rowland, a Republican, on Thursday proposed (reluctantly, he said) a 61-cent increase in the state's 50-cent-per-pack tax. That increase, 11 cents more than state Democrats had asked for this year, would provide an estimated $260 million to help ease a $1 billion projected budget shortfall over the next two fiscal years. 
 "I don't really think it's a tax," Mr. Rowland told reporters. "It's a voluntary tax." 
In Albany a week earlier, Gov. George E. Pataki, also a Republican, proposed narrowing a $5.1 billion projected gap in the budget year beginning April 1 by raising $251 million from a 39-cent increase to the cigarette tax, which is now $1.11 a pack. The average cigarette tax in the country is 45 cents. 
Governors -- Republicans, no less -- trumpeting plans to raise taxes is not what most voters would normally expect, especially in a recession. But in the world of tax increases, cigarettes offer unique advantages that make them almost irresistible to politicians, even those up for re-election in November, like Govs. Rowland and Pataki. 
First, there are clear health advantages to making cigarettes less affordable, particularly for teenagers, whose smoking habits are highly influenced by the cost. Also, cigarette taxes hit only people who smoke, a minority, thus limiting the political damage. Polls of dedicated smokers even suggest that many welcome higher cigarette taxes as an incentive to quit.
"Voters don't see a cigarette tax increase the same way they see other tax increases, because they see it as a legitimate public health tool," said Kevin P. Graff, the executive director of Mobilized Against Tobacco for Children's Health in West Hartford. 
According to a poll taken in May by the Alliance for a Healthy New England, a coalition of health care providers, consumer groups and tobacco control organizations, 66 percent of 400 registered voters in Connecticut said they would support a 50-cent cigarette tax increase. Most smokers polled also said they would support a tax increase, Mr. Graff said. 
Cigarette tax increases are "politically the easiest thing to do," said Fred Carstensen, the director of the University of Connecticut's Center for Economic Analysis. "There are other changes that you could do, but they would be controversial, and it would be harder to persuade the Legislature to accept."
Though Mr. Carstensen referred to Connecticut, the idea is catching on with Republican, Democratic and independent governors and lawmakers in about 15 other states whose budgets have been weakened by a sputtering economy and weak capital gains. 
In Oregon on Wednesday, for instance, Gov. John A. Kitzhaber, a Democrat, called for raising the 68-cent-per-pack cigarette tax by 30 cents and also increasing taxes on beer and wine. In Kansas on Thursday, Gov. Bill Graves, a Republican, proposed increasing the state's 24-cent-per-pack cigarette tax by 65 cents to help close a $426 million budget gap next year. Gov. Jesse Ventura of Minnesota, an independent, recently proposed increasing the 48-cent tax to 77 cents a pack.
Bumping up the tax is gaining popularity even in states where it has long remained well below the national average. In Indiana, which faces a projected $1 billion budget shortfall by July 2003, Gov. Frank O'Bannon, a Democrat, is backing a plan to raise the 15-cent tax by 39.5 cents a pack (he had initially proposed a 50-cent increase), as well as collecting higher taxes on riverboat casinos. And in Oklahoma, the state health commissioner is advocating pushing up the 23-cent tax to $1.23. 
Lawmakers in Arizona, Illinois, Maryland, Missouri and Nebraska are also considering raising their taxes on cigarettes. 
On the West Coast, where public sentiment is decidedly against smoking -- undercover sheriff's deputies in California have begun arresting smokers for violating a state ban on lighting up in restaurants and bars -- raising cigarette taxes has long been viewed as a relatively easy choice in tough times. 
Washington State has the highest cigarette tax in the nation, at $1.425 a pack. Virginia, a major tobacco-growing state, has the lowest, just 2.5 cents a pack. 
While Mr. Pataki and Mr. Rowland, whose party portrays itself as the champion of lower taxes, are advocating hefty cigarette tax increases, Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey, a Democrat whose party is often seen as partial to tax increases, said Thursday that he was determined not to raise any taxes, including the 80-cent cigarette tax. 
That choice has a clear historical motivation. In 1989, Gov. Jim Florio, a Democrat, enraged voters and later lost his re-election bid after pushing a $2.8 billion increase in various taxes through the Legislature. Last fall, Mr. McGreevey became the first Democrat since Mr. Florio to be elected governor.
Given that history, according to a top McGreevey administration official, the potential political cost of raising any taxes, even on cigarettes, would not be worth the revenue.
Even outside Virginia, Kentucky and the Carolinas, all major tobacco producers, some states continue to hold the line on cigarette taxes as budget deficits grow. 
In New Mexico, a group that works and lobbies on behalf of families said that increasing the state's cigarette tax by 60 cents over three years would generate about $50.4 million, but the idea did not gain wide support in Santa Fe. 
And last year in Vermont, the only state not required by law to produce a balanced budget, Gov. Howard Dean, a physician, watched lawmakers shoot down his proposal to raise the cigarette tax by 44 cents, to $1.11. On Tuesday, in a speech to the Vermont Legislature, Dr. Dean called smoking "a public health emergency," adding, "The lack of an adequate cigarette tax is an emergency for all Vermonters who depend on the state for health care."
But mindful of last year's defeat, Dr. Dean said that despite a large budget gap, he did not intend to try to get more money from cigarettes this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO PRODUCTS (93%); BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); SMOKING (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); EXECUTIVES (61%); HEALTH CARE (50%) SMOKING AND TOBACCO; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: ZIELBAUER, PAUL; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



864 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Hotel Plans a Defiant Debut Near Ground Zero 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SAULNY 

 BODY:
During the last few days before its grand opening tomorrow, the Ritz-Carlton, New York Battery Park hotel's 300 or so staff members seemed to have devoted themselves to a world of make-believe at their newly constructed glass-and-brick tower perched at the tip of Lower Manhattan.
 Workers were being evaluated on how well they handled countless scenarios led by a team of 75 Ritz-Carlton trainers who had flown in from around the world to make sure this modern palace lives up to the company's five-star standards. So there were mock banquets and "afternoon tea trials," concocted conversations that served as tutorials on "proper verbiage," and dozens of check-ins and check-outs, although no guests had arrived. 
 The contemporary decor in this Ritz-Carlton marks a dramatic departure from the traditional, Old World style in most of its other hotels, but it is distinct in another way: it is at 2 West Street, just five blocks south of ground zero. 
The trainers hope the practice drills will smooth the opening of the first Ritz-Carlton in New York since the company removed its trademark lions from 112 Central Park South five years ago after a protracted dispute with that building's owners. But despite all the preparations, a crucial detail remains beyond the hotel's control: how the sagging economy will respond to the first major development project to open downtown since the terrorist attack of Sept. 11.
"That we do open a hotel, that should set a trend of confidence," said Manfred Timmel, the new hotel's general manager, adding, "By name alone we are making a certain statement."
And the statement is loud and clear, according to those who track the hotel industry and redevelopment around the former site of the World Trade Center. The new hotel's presence, they say, will add inestimable cachet to a battered zone in need of an image makeover.
"The presence of the Ritz name and services, it clearly enhances the value of the area," said John Fox, a senior vice president and hotel industry analyst for PKF Consulting. "Ritz is a very strong brand name that is able, by virtue of the brand, to generate a lot of business."
The president of the Alliance for Downtown, Carl Weisbrod, called the new hotel, which features many original pieces of art by New York artists, "a symbol of elegance" and "a terrific thing."
But what are the chances for survival of a hotel whose rooms go for $465 to $4,500 a night, when business travel, its lifeblood, has dwindled precipitously, and leisure tourism, its backup, is foundering?
Although Mr. Timmel would not give precise figures, he did say the hotel had already softened its estimates about how robust business would be at its debut. And analysts said that while the beginning may be shaky, the ultimate success of the $210 million project, which includes 113 condominiums priced from from $650,000 to $6.4 million, will not be decided by how it does in the short term.
"I think they're going to have some trying times ahead," Mr. Fox said. "It's coming on the market at a tough period and at a very tough location, given what's happened downtown. They're clearly opening to a market that's quite different from when it was conceived.
"That said, you can't look at it in terms of one or two years. You look at it in terms of 30 or 50 years. While it may go through some early travails, ultimately it will be very successful."
Mr. Timmel said the hotel has already met its newer, more modest goals. Guests have made reservations. Meeting rooms are booked. The caterers are busier than expected.
The 500,000-square-foot building, owned by Millennium Partners, was originally scheduled to open on Oct. 10, just 29 days after the attack. Instead, as he and his staff were evacuated to New Jersey on a tugboat on Sept. 11, Mr. Timmel, who had previously been the general manager of the Regent Wall Street, said he looked back at the carnage and wondered what would happen to the Ritz and to the neighborhood.
"A decision wasn't made at that time because there was a period of uncertainty," he said.
For one thing, the hotel's construction crews were among the closest to ground zero, and were immediately drafted to work in the rescue effort. "There was not any doubt we'd continue the project," Mr. Timmel said, "but there was a question about timing and market conditions."
The hotel industry in New York had a peak year in 2000, in average room rates and occupancy levels. But since then, about 4,500 new rooms have come on the market and occupancy has declined. Room rates are down, too, from an average $237 in 2000 to a projected $182 this year, Mr. Fox said.
Millennium Partners' director of corporate communications, Matthew Hall, said 77 condos had been sold, including several since the attack. He, too, would not discuss specifics but acknowledged that sales had slowed since Sept. 11.
The Ritz-Carlton and Millennium Partners are planning another opening in the spring, for the Ritz-Carlton New York, Central Park, on Central Park South. It will also have residences, priced from $20 million to $30 million, Mr. Hall said.
Mr. Timmel, though, remains intent on Lower Manhattan."We have to focus on the positives," he said. "We expect the local community to overcome."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Housekeepers-in-training at the new Ritz-Carlton in Lower Manhattan sit down to a banquet drill. Doormen, left, practice their skills on another employee. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LODGING (89%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (88%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); TRENDS (76%); TRADEMARK LAW (71%); BRANDING (71%); BRAND EQUITY (71%); TERRORISM (69%); HIJACKING (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: RITZ-CARLTON HOTEL (NYC) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (57%) SAULNY, SUSAN; TIMMEL, MANFRED 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



865 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: Anarchy Has an Image Problem; 
In the Face of New York Police, Taste for Conflict Wavers

BYLINE:  By JACOB H. FRIES 

 BODY:
You would think anarchists would be happy. The World Economic Forum, long a target of their rage, opens in New York on Thursday, just a short subway ride from dorms full of radical students and socialist community centers on the Lower East Side. 
 But there is a problem. Is it really such a good time to pick a fight with the New York Police Department? 
 Sure, similar economic summits have provided an opportunity for anarchists and other protesters to take a stand against the globalization of capitalism. They laid siege to the streets of Seattle at one meeting in 1999, and at a conference in 2001, they battled anti-riot forces in Genoa, Italy. To the anarchist way of thinking, back then they were struggling against plain old police officers protecting the economic bigwigs and Starbucks. This time, though, they are up against a force that the world thinks is made up of nothing but heroes. 
The question of image has split a movement that prides itself on embracing radicals of different stripes, anarchists say. So they have been meeting every week to talk strategy. 
David R. Graeber, 40, an assistant professor of anthropology at Yale University who is a founding member of the Anti-Capitalist Convergence, an anarchist group, said that right after the World Trade Center attack, even aggressive anarchists lost their taste for confrontation.
"For obvious reasons in the wake of Sept. 11, the very militant stuff didn't fit with anybody's state of mind, especially in New York where many people were directly affected," he said. "But there's a feeling now that enough time has passed, that the issues we raise are as relevant as ever. A lot of people think the first major protest since the attacks must send a pointed message."
But anarchists, being anarchists, do not agree about the best way to communicate that message. 
Some have argued for a "festival of resistance," Dr. Graeber said, in which protesters would conduct street theater, dress like clowns or play games like capture the flag as a peaceful means of disruption. Others, he said, prefer a more satirical tone and plan to use puppets and symbols like the Statue of Liberty to underscore their message. 
Perhaps several hundred people intend to participate in a "black bloc," dressing all in black and performing acts of civil disobedience -- as if to prove that "the anti-globalization movement survived intact," Dr. Graeber said.
So organizers say the city can expect to see a little of everything, from the ridiculous to the combative. While few were willing to criticize their compatriots' choice of tactics, some are worried about the bad public relations fallout if things get out of hand.
In fact, anarchists say in all seriousness, their most stubborn problem is poor public relations. It continues to undermine their message, they say, and reduces their political influence. 
When pressed, most anarchists admit that their own actions are partly responsible for their hoodlum image. At the earlier globalization protests, participants who formally profess to be anarchists made up a large segment of those arrested on charges of vandalism or in violent confrontations with police. (Already, the mayor of Salt Lake City, in talking about security during the Winter Olympics, said he was concerned about anarchists, and he promised to arrest those who "disrupt and destroy" the Games.) 
As their public reputation suffers, anarchists say, it becomes harder to present the message. "The thing is, when the cops say something, it's taken as absolute truth," Dr. Graeber said. "But if we say something, it is taken to be suspect and has to be triple-checked."
Anarchists say that public misconceptions and misunderstandings about them abound. Few people realize, they say, that while some anarchists vandalize corporate property, they are guided by principles that seek to protect life. As one anarchist put it, "We're nonviolent, but we're not pacifists."
"People have a very firm connection in their mind between anarchism and violence, but anarchists are against violence in any form," said Eric Laursen, 41, a member of Another World Is Possible, an umbrella organization for many anti-globalization groups. (Mr. Laursen and many other anarchists define violence as physical harm to people.) 
"We're just trying to show that an elite superstructure rules over the world and is simply unaccountable to anybody," he said.
Mr. Laursen is a freelance writer who puts bread on the table by working for several corporate clients. Is he being a bit hypocritical? Like many of the anarchists interviewed, Mr. Laursen said he would rather try to fix the system from within than live alone in the woods. 
"Everyone has to do something for a living," he said. "People are more willing these days to accept whatever commitment you can make."
"Hypocrite" is the least of the charges heard from critics. Some say anarchists are thugs who use violence the same way terrorists do, and the organizers of the conference say anarchists are using violence at a time when the rest of the world has decided it is inappropriate.
"These various groups are seizing on opportunities to confront the police because they know those are the images that will get them on the front pages of newspapers," said a spokesman for the World Economic Forum, Charles D. McLean. "The people who really care about the issues -- about the environment, inequality in the world, health care -- are inside the meeting talking about ways to improve the situation. The bottom line is that Americans and people around the world have decided violence is not acceptable or legitimate." 
Another name problem, longtime adherents say, comes from the words "anarchy," which can mean chaos, and "anarchism," which Webster's says seeks to replace all government with "the voluntary association of cooperative groups." 
In fact, anarchists say, the term simply marks supporters of "direct democracy." (Still, because of the problems, many left-leaning groups have replaced "anarchist" with "anti-authoritarian" or "anti-capitalist.") 
Despite their conflicts, anarchists maintain that they share some beliefs: that leaders are unnecessary; that people can successfully lead themselves; that corporations wield too much power in developing countries. 
But when asked what an anarchist world would be like (and this gets back to that public relations problem), followers admit that it is a vision they are still trying to piece together. Would there be any private property, or even bosses, in such a society? 
"It's like someone in the Middle Ages trying to imagine Wall Street," Dr. Graeber said. 
Brooke Lehman, 29, an organizer in New York City and teacher at the Institute for Social Ecology, an anarchist school in Vermont, said she envisioned a future based on "communal economics." "We don't need to be getting apples from New Zealand," she said. "A lot of ecological problems come from not looking at resources on a local level."
How would these communal efforts be organized? "I imagine a confederation of many assemblies that would report directly to a neighborhood," she said.
"Organized anarchists" may seem like an oxymoron, but anarchists do tend to follow Ms. Lehman's model by including smaller working groups that are based on the participants' expertise or interest, such as law, medicine or the arts, she said. Assignments are given to committees each week, and larger decisions are made by consensus.
On Jan. 20, when more than 70 people gathered for a weekly meeting at St. Mark's Church in-the-Bowery, matters started with each working group reporting in. Members of the legal group announced that they would teach crash courses in civil rights. The housing group pleaded for more beds. 
Then everything stopped. A man and a woman whom no one recognized were escorted out amid whispers that they were police infiltrators.
The crowd, ranging in age from 15 to 70 or so, settled down to hear more from the working groups. A woman from the food committee said her group would have to feed thousands of people on a tight budget and needed to cut corners. She ordered everyone to "liberate" forks and spoons from chain restaurants: "It's not really stealing, it's not really illegal, it's just obnoxious."
So some steal. Some proffer puppets. In the end, anarchists say, they all share a singular passion for protest and a belief that American democracy can be better.
"Our rights are like our muscles -- if you don't use them, you lose them," said David Solnit, 38, an organizer of Art and Revolution, a group based in Oakland, Calif. 
"Civil disobedience and nonviolent protest are a legitimate part of democracy, but are now being criminalized," Mr. Solnit said, speaking from a community center in the Lower East Side where he has been making large masks for use in protests this week. "If people didn't break the law, America would still be a British colony, slavery would still exist, women wouldn't be able to vote, the Vietnam War might still be going on." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Smashing windows during the 2000 economic forum meetings in Davos, Switzerland. (Reuters); Arts in Action members, above and left, making puppets last week for use at World Economic Forum demonstrations. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RIOTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (76%); STREET ART (75%); HIJACKING (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); TRENDS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); THEATER (66%); TERRORISM (65%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (52%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (93%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: FRIES, JACOB H 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (77%) UNITED STATES (97%); SWITZERLAND (77%); ITALY (71%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



866 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-5

Female Palestinian Bomber Kills One in Jerusalem Blast
A woman set off an explosion in a shopping district in Jerusalem, killing one man and herself and wounding 113 people. A New York man who escaped from the World Trade Center without injury in September was hurt along with his family in the blast. A5

Russian Generals Are Killed
A Russian military helicopter carrying two generals and three senior officers exploded and crashed in Chechnya, killing as many as 14, officials said. Rebels said they shot the aircraft down. It was the second time in four months that Moscow has suffered a major loss of top commanders there. A3

Jewish Remembrance Awards
In Berlin, six people were honored for efforts to preserve the history of prewar Jewish life in Germany. A4

NATION CHALLENGED A6-7

Complications for Effort To Track Foreign Students
Despite promises to tighten controls on student visas after Sept. 11, a computer network ordered by Congress six years ago to track foreign students in the country will not be operational until next year. Even then, there will not be enough officers to check on all the violators, officials said. A1

Debating Captives' Rights
Vice President Dick Cheney and Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld said captives in Afghanistan and Guantanamo Bay would not be designated prisoners of war, regardless of what decision the administration made on Secretary of State Colin L. Powell's request to review how the Geneva Conventions might apply. A6

Afghanistan Raid Is Questioned
The Pentagon has said two compounds in Oruzgan that it attacked last week were Taliban and Al Qaeda redoubts. But the local officials say that the groups were not in the area and that the United States was duped into joining a factional fight. A6

Mission at Afghan Hospital
United States Special Operations forces initiated an operation at a hospital in Afghanistan where seven Al Qaeda gunmen have been holed up for nearly two months. Two loud explosions and gunfire rocked the walled hospital compound. A6

Streamlining Domestic Defense
The vice president endorsed creating a defense command at the Pentagon to coordinate military response to attacks in the United States. A6

Meeting of Arab Students
Arab students attended a conference in Washington dedicated to their political concerns, the first meeting of Arab activists since Sept. 11. A7

Group Says It Kidnapped Writer
A previously unknown group claimed in an e-mail message that it kidnapped Daniel Pearl, a Wall Street Journal foreign correspondent, in Karachi, Pakistan. A6

NATIONAL A8-13

Amid War and Recession, A Changing Budget Agenda
President Bush will send a budget to Congress a week from today. An analysis finds that it appears to stray far from the agenda of small government and fiscal conservatism that the administration advocated on taking office a year ago. Besides proposing a 9 percent spending increase, the plan will cast aside promises of paying down debt or maintaining a surplus while projecting at least several years of deficits. Mr. Bush has two excuses: war and recession. A1

A Canyon Conundrum
There is a weird new wrinkle in the love-it-to-death romance between the Grand Canyon and the nearly five million people who descend upon it every year: a train station that has neither tracks nor trains. The station is the last stop on a light-rail transit system that does not exist and is not being built. Therein lies a tale of how the federal government has tried, and failed, to cure the problem of too many tourists and cars but no place to park. A1

Companies Clash in Mississippi
Mississippi is courting the Hyundai Motor Corporation, which wants to build a $1 billion factory in the United States. But Nissan, which is building a billion-dollar truck factory there, is not happy about the prospect of sharing the work force with another big company. Nissan is warning that any future expansion would be affected by the presence of a competing plant. A8

In Hawaii, a Drivers' Revolt
Drivers in Hawaii are openly rebelling against having their speed monitored by digital cameras and computers in the back of unmarked vans operated by a private company, which is paid $29.75 for every citation issued. A9

Retooling the G.O.P
As mayor of Los Angeles and, before that, as a lawyer and takeover artist, Richard J. Riordan has always insisted he was a pragmatist with no use for ideological debates. But now that he is seeking the Republican nomination for governor of California, he says he is trying to refashion his party's traditional conservative ideology by steering it leftward. A8

A Winter Festival Misnamed
The funny thing about the University of Okoboji Winter Games in Iowa has always been that there is no university. This year, there was no winter. But the games must go on in sleet, in snow, and, yes, even when the temperature is 64 degrees above zero instead of 54 below. A8

Balloon Crash Investigated
Federal investigators were trying to determine the cause of a fatal hot-air balloon crash northwest of Las Vegas. The pilot of a hot-air balloon was killed and six passengers were injured when the balloon they were riding in crashed into a cinder block wall during winds of up to 25 miles per hour. The group took the balloon ride as a birthday celebration for some of the passengers. (AP)

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Reinventing a Police Force For a Post-Sept. 11 World
Driven by the compelling realities of the Sept. 11 attacks, New York City's new police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, is taking steps to reshape the New York Police Department. The goal, simply put, is to meet the singular challenge of preventing -- while at the same time preparing for -- future acts of terrorism. A1

Tough Choices for Anarchists
You would think anarchists would be happy. The World Economic Forum, long a target of their rage, opens in New York on Thursday, just a short subway ride from dormitories full of radical students and socialist community centers on the Lower East Side. But is this really such a good time to pick a fight with the New York Police Department? B1

Sex Offender Issue in Court
New Jersey's highest court will hear a case that is expected to determine which among the state's convicted sex offenders may be involuntarily institutionalized after completing their prison sentences. B1

States Turn to Tobacco Tax
Nowadays, cigarettes are not just for smoking. In New York, Connecticut and more than a dozen other states that are grappling with budget deficits, cigarettes and other tobacco products, ignored for years by legislatures with plenty of cash, are once again for taxing. B1

Calling for a Commuter Tax
Gifford Miller, the New York City Council speaker, plans to go to Albany to ask the State Legislature to reinstate the commuter tax, Council aides said. The tax, levied on people who work in the city but live elsewhere, was repealed in 1999, but with the city facing a huge deficit, some officials say it could use the extra revenue. B5

A Defiant Debut at Ground Zero
Five blocks south of ground zero, staff members have been going through elaborate training for the grand opening of the Ritz-Carlton, New York Battery Park hotel. But for all the preparations, a crucial detail remains beyond the hotel's control: how the sagging economy will respond to the first major development project to open in the downtown area since the Sept. 11 terror attack. B4

Neediest Cases B6

ARTS E1-10

SPORTSMONDAY D1-9

Next Stop, New Orleans
The New England Patriots beat the Pittsburgh Steelers, 24-17, clinching the A.F.C. title and a trip to Super Bowl XXXVI in New Orleans. D1

The St. Louis Rams earned their second trip to the Super Bowl in three years when they defeated the Philadelphia Eagles, 29-24, to win the N.F.C. title. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Deadlocked Over Documents
Vice President Dick Cheney said that the White House was prepared to go to court to fight the release of documents demanded by Congress as part of the investigation into any influence the Enron Corporation had in formulating the Bush administration's energy policy. A1

Examining Shredded Paper
Agents of both the F.B.I. and the Securities and Exchange Commission have expressed interest in reviewing the remains of documents that a former Enron executive said were recently shredded at the company headquarters. A10

Mob Prosecutor Joins Inquiry
The Justice Department has named a leading organized-crime prosecutor from New York -- Andrew Weissmann, chief of the criminal division of the United States attorney's office in Brooklyn -- to its investigation of Enron's collapse, department officials said. A10

Changes at New Republic
Martin Peretz recently agreed to sell majority control of The New Republic, a scrappy champion of liberal politics, to the financiers Michael Steinhardt and Roger Hertog. What may shock loyal readers, just as it surprised Mr. Peretz, is that in the last presidential election neither of his new partners voted for his friend from Harvard, Al Gore. C1

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES B7

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Poor marks on the environment; Enron and the lawyers; the Bloomberg way at City Hall.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E9
Crossword E7
Weather D10
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); BUDGETS (85%); TALIBAN (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (71%); HELICOPTERS (71%); AL-QAEDA (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); DICK CHENEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GERMANY (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); CUBA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



867 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: MOST WANTED: DRILLING DOWN/WIRED CITIES; 
Logging On Coast to Coast

BYLINE:  By SUSAN STELLIN 

 BODY:
The cities with the fastest-growing Internet populations are far from the epicenter of the dot-com boom. According to data from the research firm Nielsen/NetRatings, Pittsburgh, Salt Lake City and Phoenix top the list, with increases in the number of Internet users in those cities around 20 percent last year. 
 By comparison, the number of active Internet users in the entire United States grew just 6 percent last year, with 104.7 million people logging on at least once in December 2001, compared with 98.6 million the previous December. In San Francisco, the number of Internet users decreased 8 percent last year, while the online populations in New York and Seattle remained relatively stable. 
 "We've been tracking local data for several years now, and the one thing we've noticed is this slowing or shift in growth from the larger markets to the medium-range markets," said T. S. Kelly, a principal analyst for Nielsen/NetRatings. As for Internet access in cities known as high-tech centers, he said, "Mostly everyone who does want it has it." SUSAN STELLIN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pittsburgh is the Internet growth leader. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: NETRATINGS INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (92%)

PERSON: STELLIN, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) UTAH, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%) SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH); PITTSBURGH (PA)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



868 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: OFFSHORE BANKING; 
Enron Footprints Revive Old Image of Caymans

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: GRAND CAYMAN, Cayman Islands, Jan. 26 

 BODY:
People here had always made their livelihoods offshore. Generations ago, Caymanian men were renowned as sailors aboard ships headed for the United States and Europe. Now residents of those old ports of call venture here to make or protect their fortunes in offshore banks and businesses.
 In less than four decades, this territory of the United Kingdom has gone from being a mosquito-infested island to being the world's fifth-largest financial center. The growth has brought opportunities, providing good jobs and fueling the local economy. But it has also brought opportunists who have taken advantage of the island's lack of income taxes and its booming banking sector to evade taxes or launder money. 
 Government officials insist that those episodes are in the past and that they have strict financial regulations and procedures to exchange information with law enforcement agencies in different countries. 
But old perceptions linger, and not just those in John Grisham's legal thrillers, where a Cayman Islands bank account is de rigeur. The recent disclosure that the Enron Corporation used nearly 700 partnerships registered in the Cayman Islands to avoid paying federal taxes has revived suspicions. A recently signed treaty to exchange tax information with American authorities has been derided by some American prosecutors as a sham because it would not take effect for a few years, which they said would give tax cheats ample time to find another haven.
Executives and officials on Grand Cayman are used to the skepticism, even as they insist they are not the impenetrable tax haven of old. They want to prove that the notion of someone sauntering into a local bank with sacks of money or setting up free-wheeling deals is myth in an age when international monitors keep close watch.
"The fact that the Cayman Islands are tax-free doesn't equate with this being some kind of black hole," said Deborah Drummond, the government's assistant financial secretary. "We provide a very necessary service to global capital markets, and when requested, we have the ability to fully cooperate with international authorities. The concept of stashing money in a tax haven and dropping off the face of the earth is not an appropriate way to look at what the Cayman Islands are about." 
With tens of thousands of business partnerships listed in the Cayman Islands, though, and with hundreds of banks here, there is no doubt that the financial sector has driven the island's new prosperity and a high -- some say too expensive -- standard of living.
Although the popular image may be that of a Caribbean Casablanca harboring bon vivants with a penchant for fast cars and faster cash, the streets of downtown George Town, on Grand Cayman, are mostly full of gawking tourists from the cruise ships anchored nearby. Most of the cars are the sedans and sport utility vehicles found in American suburbs, as are the homes, although there are some spectacular oceanfront estates.
Oddly enough for a Caribbean island that has been plagued by accusations of financial shenanigans, there are no casinos nor even a lottery, because religious-minded locals resist gambling as an evil. 
The transformation into a financial center began in the mid-1960's, when officials capitalized on the island's no-tax policies to pass banking laws that became the foundation of the financial sector.
The 1980's brought problems to this and other offshore centers, as money launderers relied on banks that were unprepared or unwilling to ask too many questions of their customers. "I don't think anybody in the United States was focused on it until then, said Thomas Jefferson, a former financial secretary. "It caused all of us to look inside and look at what were our policies."
Since 1990, when the island entered into a mutual legal assistance treaty with the United States, banking regulators say they have provided information to investigators in 180 criminal cases.
Nevertheless, concern over some practices led international monitors to label the Cayman Islands in June 2000 as uncooperative in fighting money laundering. They were taken off the blacklist last June, after codifying what banking regulators said were already common practices. Still, all players in the financial sector from banks to lawyers now have to review every single one of their clients in order to ensure their identity and sources of income.
"You either get over it, deal with it, or whine and become more marginalized," Ms. Drummond said. "We got the whining out of our system a while ago."
Today, there are more than 400 banks and 47,000 partnerships registered or licensed in the Cayman Islands. The government, which prefers to allow the private sector to market the island's services, has moved away from the notion of being a tax haven and prefers to focus on the range of professional services offered by the 6,000 people who work in the financial sector.
The banks include about a dozen full-service institutions, with the rest being offshore banks that by law must be affiliated with either a local or overseas bank. Although the Cayman Islands started the decade with about 62 shell banks that were essentially conduits for cash, recent changes in the law require all banks to have a physical presence, records and books in the islands.
Although Enron's multitude of partnerships have raised suspicions, officials and executives here said such companies are legitimately used by major corporations to defer taxes, maximize profits or provide a tax-neutral setting for deals involving businesses in two countries with different tax rates. Aircraft deals have become popular here, for example, because the island's stability is acceptable to manufacturers and insurers who worry about the political climate or legal protections of some Third World clients.
"These are real deals, not paper transactions designed to deceive," said Tony Travers, the senior partner at Maples and Calder, a law firm on Grand Cayman. "This is not brass-plate stuff. We have real people here and we know we add value, for the simple reason that clients would not pay us if we did not."
By some estimates, Cayman banks hold $800 billion in American money -- a figure that last year led Robert M. Morgenthau, the district attorney in Manhattan, and others investigating tax cases to question how much of it was there to keep it from the reach of tax collectors. 
But Cayman bankers and officials, long accustomed to these criticisms, said that most of that figure represents money from major American banks that has been booked in Cayman accounts in order to gain interest, among other advantages.
"Those $800 billion are not physically in the Cayman Islands, it is all in New York," said Conor O'Dea, managing director of Bank of Butterfield. "It is booked with banks in the Cayman Islands. It is not a wire transfer. We would love to have $800 billion in deposits."
Still, the islands enjoy perhaps the highest standard of living in the Caribbean. Many people who were born here and remember the days when the only jobs for young men were aboard ships said the financial industry has provided more opportunities. At the same time, some lament the loss of an easy-going, trusting pace, especially when expatriates outnumber native-born Caymanians.
"Some of the expats don't have a feeling of unity," said William Ebanks, a farmer who grows pineapples and raises hogs on the northeast part of Grand Cayman. "It's more a feeling of they're here to get what they can and go."
That philosophy has also been adopted by some native-born acquaintances of one local woman who works in a law firm. She said that while it has taken her more than 10 years to finish building her house, some of her co-workers have managed to build two homes.
"I know how I got my house," said the woman, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "We get the same pay. How could they get so far in life?"
But keeping up with with the neighbors here can become expensive because of a hefty 20 percent duty on imported goods, an indirect tax that adds up quickly because almost everything here has to be imported from the United States.
"When I grew up, I could go fish and that was good enough to eat," said Rudy Manderson, who runs a construction company. "Now, if you don't have a T-bone steak, you're not in the groove. The tourists and foreigners eat these, so people figure they have to eat the same thing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Ebanks, a Grand Cayman native, thinks too many foreign residents think only of themselves. (David Gonzalez/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); TAX FRAUD (91%); ACCOUNTING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CRUISES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ETHICS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (53%) TAXATION; TAX EVASION; BANKRUPTCIES; TREATIES; ETHICS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: JOHN GRISHAM (52%) GONZALEZ, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAYMAN ISLANDS (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%) CAYMAN ISLANDS

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



869 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Council Chief To Advocate Commuter Tax 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
Gifford Miller, the City Council speaker, plans to go to Albany today to ask the State Legislature to reinstate the commuter tax, Council aides said yesterday.
 For more than 30 years, the tax was levied on people who worked in the city but lived elsewhere to pay for the city services they used. In 1999, the Legislature repealed the tax. Now, with the city facing a huge deficit, some officials say it could use the $360 million to $500 million a year that the tax would generate. 
 Mr. Miller plans to call for the reinstatement of the tax when he testifies before a joint hearing of the State Assembly's Ways and Means Committee and the State Senate Finance Committee, several aides said. Both Mr. Miller and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg will be in Albany to testify about the city's needs and to meet state officials. 
Officials have said it is unlikely that the commuter tax could be reinstated in an election year, and Mr. Bloomberg has been cool to the tax, which he said could discourage businesses from moving to New York City.
Mr. Bloomberg has been in a delicate balancing act since Gov. George E. Pataki unveiled a budget proposal last week. While the governor's budget did not call for significant cuts in aid, it offered little to help the city recover from the attack on the World Trade Center or to close the city's budget deficit, which is projected at $2.9 billion to $4.7 billion. 
The governor said that he would leave much of that to the federal government. 
Mr. Bloomberg's challenge is to advocate for his city without alienating Governor Pataki, an important Republican ally who is expected to seek a third term this year. To date, the mayor has said little about the governor's budget proposal.
Yesterday Mr. Bloomberg said that he would tell leaders in Albany that "we could use some more help" and suggested that the state might be able to help the city with capital projects.
"What I'm going to do is try to explain to Albany how the future of the state of New York is to a great extent dependent on the future of New York City, and that any help they can give us will be used wisely and it is in the interest of all 18 million people that live in the state," Mayor Bloomberg said.
Mr. Miller, a Manhattan Democrat, is expected to be more critical of the governor's budget, several Council aides said. They said he would criticize Mr. Pataki's proposal to authorize a bond sale to raise $204 million that the city's school system contends it is owed from past years, as well as his plan to withhold Tuition Assistance Scholarship funds from students until they graduate. They also said that Mr. Miller would criticize a $2 billion economic development plan that the governor proposed for upstate New York and Long Island, but not for New York City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); BUDGETS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (87%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (65%); BONDS (65%); TUITION FEES (62%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (60%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) TAXATION; COMMUTING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) COOPER, MICHAEL; MILLER, R GIFFORD (SPEAKER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



870 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: In a Sign of Changing Times, Bush Calls for More Spending 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
The budget that President Bush will send to Congress a week from Monday strays far from the agenda of small government and fiscal conservatism that the administration advocated on taking office a year ago.
 It will propose a spending increase of around 9 percent for next year, more than any big-government Democrat would dare to put on the table. It will cast aside all the promises about maintaining budget surpluses and paying down the national debt that both parties made in recent years, and instead will project at least several years of budget deficits. 
 Mr. Bush has two excuses: war and recession. 
There are perhaps no more powerful rationales for casting aside the old rules, which were put in place in an era of peace and prosperity that, post-Sept. 11, post-Enron, looks increasingly to have been a bit of an illusion.
There is no more vital role for government than spending what it takes to protect the nation from terrorism. An investment now in helping the economy recover will pay dividends down the road in jobs, incomes and, ultimately, higher tax revenues.
That Mr. Bush is making his proposals backed by stratospheric job-approval ratings does not hurt his case, either. Still, even before he sends it to Capitol Hill or outlines it in his State of the Union address on Tuesday, the president's approach to the budget is generating opposition -- or at least disquiet -- on both sides of the aisle. Getting what he wants may be more complicated for Mr. Bush than it appears.
Some of Mr. Bush's Democratic opponents are beginning to view the forthcoming budget as another example of how this administration regularly repackages positions it has advocated all along to take advantage of changing circumstances.
The president's call last week for the biggest defense buildup since Ronald Reagan -- $48 billion in additional spending on the military next year -- includes $10 billion for the direct costs of the war on terrorism.
But the other $38 billion, an 11.6 percent increase over the current year's budget, is mostly to pay for the same Pentagon programs the administration supported before the terrorist attacks. They include better pay and housing, research on a national missile defense, and purchases of tanks and fighter planes.
By the same token, the administration's economic recovery plan is built largely around accelerating the phasing in of the cuts in individual income tax rates in the tax bill Mr. Bush signed last June. It adds many tax cuts for businesses, a constituency the administration promised last year to take care of.
"It's true, and would be for any president, that this president is trying to wrap his priorities in the crisis of the day," said Robert D. Reischauer, president of the Urban Institute, a centrist-to-liberal research group.
But even after setting aside any pretense of reaching a balanced budget, Mr. Reischauer said, the administration will still propose deep cuts in many programs not directly related to the war or the recession. As a result, he said, this budget plan will set off another intense partisan battle over the role of government.
Calling for more tax cuts and pushing up military spending "has caused the administration to tighten the belt elsewhere in the budget more than would be the case had there been no 9/11 or recession," Mr. Reischauer said. "That could heighten the contentiousness of the budget."
Despite Mr. Bush's popularity and the clear priority the nation gives to its security, some Democrats are signaling that the president may be overreaching when it comes to his Pentagon budget. Senator Robert C. Byrd, the West Virginia Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, said that he had a half-century record as a hawk on military matters, but that Mr. Bush's request made him nervous.
"It's going to have to come out of somewhere," Mr. Byrd said of the military spending increase. "Out of somebody else's hide."
Most Democrats have shied away from advocating a rollback of last year's tax cut.
But they are toying with an idea floated last week by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, that would allow the tax cuts to take effect only as the government made progress in paying down the national debt. They seem intent on denying Mr. Bush his request for an acceleration of the tax cuts as part of the proposed economic stimulus legislation.
Complicated budget politics are at work on the Republican side as well. Few members of Mr. Bush's party are willing to put any daylight between themselves and the commander in chief at this point, but some conservatives are concerned that the administration is not fighting hard enough to keep spending down.
Conservatives do not quarrel with a big Pentagon spending increase. But some say they would like to see the administration do more to squeeze nondefense spending.
The administration has signaled that it will propose a spending increase of no more than 3 percent next year for programs outside the Pentagon and domestic security. That is roughly what it would take to keep up with inflation. But because some nondefense programs, like the National Institutes of Health, will get substantial increases, many others are sure to be cut.
"I certainly don't expect any sweeping assault on big government, and I say that with great disappointment," said Daniel J. Mitchell, an economist at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group.
"The reason for that politically," he said, "is that the Bush administration has decided, probably for pretty good reasons, that there are other priorities right now, and getting into a fight with Congress that would not be easy to win would undermine those priorities."
Some Republicans are concerned about a repeat of 1998, when they gave in to spending requests by President Bill Clinton and then did poorly in that year's midterm elections, an outcome conservatives attributed to giving up their identity as the party of small government.
"Particularly for a president with an 80 percent approval rating in the middle of a war," said Richard E. May, a former Republican staff director for the House Budget Committee, "if Bush shows a willingness to spend more than what's in his budget, it could be a political liability for him and the Republicans." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX LAW (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TERRORISM (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); POLITICS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); INCOME TAX (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (62%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US); UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



871 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: What's a Recovery Without Jobs? 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan says the worst is over. Maybe.
 The Federal Reserve chairman told a Senate committee last week, "There have been signs recently that some of the forces that have been restraining the economy over the past year are starting to diminish and that activity is beginning to firm." 
 While it may be true technically that the economy is executing a modest turnaround, it remains to be seen just how secure that next paycheck is for millions of working Americans.
A study released last week by the Economic Policy Institute in Washington argues that a stronger recovery than is currently forecast by most economists will be needed to prevent unemployment from continuing to rise this year. The unemployment rate was 5.8 percent in December, up from a low of 3.9 percent in October 2000. The institute's study predicts that even with the economy recovering, unemployment will continue to rise, reaching 6.5 percent by the fall, and hovering in the 6 percent range next year. 
Those estimates are roughly in line with most forecasts for the next year or two. 
For most Americans, the job is the thing. It's not just a pathway to a better life; it's also a shield against all kinds of disasters, from plummeting self-esteem to family breakup to homelessness.
"For economists," according to the institute, "a 'recovery' essentially means the following: the point at which the economy stops shrinking and begins expanding as measured in terms of the output of goods and services. A recession occurs when -- according to a set of highly technical criteria -- an economic expansion stops, and begins to contract."
The view from the perspective of a family struggling to pay the rent or the mortgage is somewhat different. As the study noted, working families "tend to think of recessions more in terms of unemployment, reduced weekly hours, lower wage increases and, consequently, family income losses. From this perspective, a recovery begins when unemployment and all of the associated underemployment effects stop increasing."
The study explained why joblessness can continue to grow even as the economy is rebounding. To reverse the increase in unemployment, the economy would have to grow by at least 3 to 3.5 percent. That level of growth is required to absorb new workers coming into the labor market and to offset the effects of increased productivity.
The modest growth currently projected for the next several months would not be enough to reverse the jobless rate. So it's a little early to break out the champagne. If a recession ends and you're still out of work, you may be reluctant to celebrate.
One of the remarkable things about the economic boom in the second half of the 90's was the expansion of employment opportunities for people on the lower rungs of the economic ladder, including difficult-to-employ members of historically disadvantaged groups, including women, blacks and Hispanics. Real wages increased, welfare rolls contracted and progress was made on the very difficult problem of income inequality.
It will be a long time before we revisit that scenario. The institute's study says, "Long after the economy begins to grow again, and even after unemployment stops climbing, it may be years before the jobless rate returns to the 4 percent level enjoyed at the end of 2000, and years more before families see their incomes return to pre-recession levels."
If the overall jobless rate climbs past 6 percent, as expected, the rate for blacks will soar past 11 percent (almost 12 percent for black men), and for black and Hispanic teens it will be approximately 35 percent and 21 percent respectively.
The politicians give lip service to working Americans who have to struggle mightily to make ends meet. And President Bush is expected to talk about jobs in his State of the Union address tomorrow. But the crucially important issue of employment rarely gets the kind of sustained attention it warrants.
The Bush tax cuts, the recession and the war on terrorism have made it unlikely that much in the way of federal resources will be devoted to stimulating employment among those hardest hit by the downturn. There's an economic chill in the air. And for those at or near the bottom, the cold front will probably remain for quite some time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



872 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: Full Harvests and Empty Wallets 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "The Farm Bill Charade," by Senator Dick Lugar (Op-Ed, Jan. 21): 
 Many price supports for American farmers would not be needed if the federal government followed a sensible and sustainable water policy in the Western United States. The subsidy of irrigation water to many Western farmers allows them to grow unneeded crops on marginal land that otherwise couldn't be grown economically. If these farmers were charged a realistic price for their water, many of these crops would not be grown, lessening the need for other farm subsidies across the country.

DANIEL LAUTENBACH
Ann Arbor, Mich., Jan. 21, 2002

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Kevin Pyle) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (88%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WATER QUALITY (55%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (55%); IRRIGATION (54%) AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; WATER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: DICK LUGAR (88%) LAUTENBACH, DANIEL; LUGAR, RICHARD G (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



873 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; 
A High-Profile Speech Poses Knotty Challenges

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
At first glance, President Bush's State of the Union address on Tuesday evening seems a fine opportunity for him to solidify his already sky-high popularity and boost his party's agenda at the start of the midterm election year. Mr. Bush has routed a terrorist regime in Afghanistan with relatively few American casualties. Even Democrats applaud his handling of the war.
 But even Mr. Bush's advisers say the president's prime-time speech poses knotty political challenges that go much deeper than how much he should calibrate between his drives to subdue the two demons threatening America: the Taliban and the recession. 
 In fact, while White House officials said it was a given that Mr. Bush would repeatedly invoke his determination to create jobs and to rid the world of "evildoers," the looming questions were over what words he might not utter. 
Will he dare mention the Enron Corporation, whose top executives were close to Mr. Bush and other administration officials? (Bush advisers said they were considering a reference to corporate irresponsibility.)
Will he mention Osama bin Laden, even though Mr. Bush has still not made good on his vow to catch him "dead or alive"? (Bush advisers said they would emphasize that there can be no wavering from the war on terrorism.)
As Americans tell pollsters that they are more unsettled about jobs than terrorists, will Mr. Bush put forth a convincing case that the economy is rebounding?
Mr. Bush's advisers said he would seek to turn his popularity as commander in chief into an asset in taming the recession. In something of a preview of the State of the Union address, the president declared in a speech last week, "The truth of the matter is, the best thing I can do for the economy is to make sure the enemy doesn't hit us again."
White House officials said they hoped to highlight the war, and the heroes of Sept. 11, by including in the audience the interim Afghan leader, Hamid Karzai, as well as members of the military, police officers and firefighters.
Still, even Karl Rove, the president's chief political adviser, said it was not easy striking the appropriate tone and message. "This is a very difficult challenge because we're in the middle of a war," Mr. Rove said. To come up with a comparable moment, he said, "You'd have to go back to the 60's when Lyndon Johnson was coming aboard as a new president dealing with the war -- or when Franklin Roosevelt was thrust into a war."
In some ways, Mr. Bush's popularity complicates matters. He won raves for his speech to Congress soon after the terrorist attacks, in part because many of his critics did not think he could rise to the moment. Now he faces higher expectations, as well as intensifying worries about the economy.
As one White House speechwriter put it: "After such a very well-received speech, the hard thing here is to do another speech with memorable stuff. And now we have some additional requirements here to talk about domestic priorities."
Even so, the speech could be Mr. Bush's best opening in months to reach an attentive, and wide, audience. In a New York Times/CBS News Poll conducted last week, 56 percent of Americans said it was very likely they would watch the speech, and 27 percent said it was somewhat likely. It is Mr. Bush's first State of the Union address; last year, he delivered a speech that resembled the State of the Union but was actually a budget message.
"He has to start out talking about the war," said Ed Gillespie, a Republican strategist who worked on Mr. Bush's presidential campaign. "But you definitely want to demonstrate to American workers that you know how seriously economic concerns are weighing on them and to lay out not only that you understand there's a problem, but that you have solutions."
Mr. Rove said the president instructed his aides that he does not want a long recitation of proposals -- a hallmark of President Bill Clinton's State of the Union addresses -- and hopes to touch the public with broader themes.
"The president wants to lay out a big vision about the war and homeland security," Mr. Rove said. "He said, 'I don't want micro programs.' " The speech was essentially written several days ago, Mr. Rove said, adding that by late last week Mr. Bush was "taking a very sharp pencil" to it.
Ross K. Baker, a political scientist at Rutgers University, said Mr. Bush had to take care not to bask too much in his successes in the war.
"The danger is excessive triumphalism," Mr. Baker said. "If he gets too close to claiming victory and there's a serious fight between American forces and residual elements of the Taliban, it will be embarrassing. And he has to make at least veiled references to the Enron situation. I don't think he can let this opportunity pass without at least an oblique comment about the importance of integrity in business."
If anyone is in a more delicate position than the president, it is the Democrats. They are eager to raise questions about Mr. Bush's handling of the economy and the administration's links to Enron. Last week, for instance, Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader, accused Mr. Bush of "Enronizing" the economy by raiding retirement and health care funds to benefit the rich.
Yet the Democrats risk appearing unpatriotic when they upbraid a president who is so popular. As a result, the strategy of many Democrats is to raise the expectations for Mr. Bush's speech while portraying him as being yanked to the right by Republican leaders in Congress.
"It's hard to compete with a guy in front of a cheering audience and standing ovations talking about a subject in which there is virtual partisan unanimity," said Steve Elmendorf, chief of staff to Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House minority leader, who will deliver the Democratic response to the State of the Union address. "The president is at 85 percent popularity. Give me an example of a State of the Union over the last 20 years that the president has not used successfully."
As a result, Mr. Elmendorf said, Mr. Gephardt's speech would -- albeit gingerly -- raise questions about the nation's economic security and "focus more on the real differences between Bush and the more extreme elements in the Republican Congress."
But Mr. Bush's advisers said they were not worried that the public would think the president was preoccupied with the war to the exclusion of the economy, as happened to Mr. Bush's father during the Persian Gulf war. They note that the president has consistently pulled in more than 50 percent support for his stewardship of the economy. His father, even at the height of his popularity during the gulf war, almost never surpassed 50 percent for his handling of the economy.
Mr. Rove, for one, said he was heartened that for Mr. Bush, "the gap between economic performance and war performance is modest."
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the newly elected House Democratic whip, was not so sure that gap would remain narrow.
"He'll receive a hero's welcome; Congress is very generous to presidents when they come," Ms. Pelosi said of Mr. Bush's trip to the Capitol on Tuesday. "But we'll see if he demonstrates a concern for the workers by proposing a policy that promotes economic growth."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and his wife, Laura, left St. John's Church in Washington yesterday after attending services. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TALIBAN (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); ARMED FORCES (64%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (71%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); KARL ROVE (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



874 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Poor Marks on the Environment 

 BODY:
One of President Bush's assistants said recently that if the president chose to model himself on anyone, it would be Theodore Roosevelt. As regards environmental policy, surely an important component of Roosevelt's legacy, we fail to see the comparison. Roosevelt started the national wildlife refuge system. Mr. Bush sees the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as a source of oil. Roosevelt greatly expanded the national forests. Mr. Bush would shrink important protections for those forests.
 For conservationists, Mr. Bush's first year was a big disappointment, yielding little more than a few promises. It's possible that he may yet do good things for the national parks, despite his fixation on letting snowmobiles roam as free as the bison in Yellowstone. He has also promised full funding for the government's main land acquisition program, and promoted the redevelopment of contaminated industrial sites known as brownfields. On most major issues, however -- clean air, clean water, the protection of the public lands from commercial exploitation -- he has retreated or signaled retreat from the policies of his predecessor. 
 Unless Mr. Bush himself alters course, the prospects for improvement are zero. That is because he has filled nearly all the critical posts where policy is hatched and regulations written with people who regard the environment as a resource to be exploited and who have earned their keep representing logging, mining, oil, livestock and other interests. The one faint hope in this dreary landscape is Christie Whitman, the boss of the Environmental Protection Agency. But apart from a brave decision directing General Electric to clean up the Hudson River, Mrs. Whitman has essentially been running in place. A big victory for her is upholding a rule written in the Clinton administration.
Meanwhile, the field is littered with broken promises. The biggest was Mr. Bush's abandonment on March 13 of his campaign promise to reduce industrial emissions of carbon dioxide. This decision foreshadowed his withdrawal two weeks later from the Kyoto Protocol on global warming, as well as the unveiling in May of his broader energy strategy, which favors precisely the same fossil fuels that are believed to cause the warming problem.
There were less dramatic betrayals as well. At his confirmation hearings, for example, Attorney General John Ashcroft pledged to defend as the "law of the land" a landmark Clinton-era rule barring logging and other forms of commercial development in 58.5 million acres of roadless national forest. Mr. Ashcroft's lawyers have since done almost nothing to defend the rule against court challenges from industry, a failure that has encouraged the timber lobbyists who now run the Forest Service to proceed with their parallel campaign to destroy the roadless policy by administrative means. Mr. Ashcroft's negative handiwork is everywhere. Three days after Mrs. Whitman upheld a Clinton rule protecting wetlands, his lawyers opened settlement talks with developers seeking to weaken the rule. That, in turn, can only encourage the Army Corps of Engineers in its parallel efforts to undermine other aspects of wetlands law.
Such are the destructive synergies at work in the Bush administration. The only person who can turn things around is Mr. Bush, so strong is the mindset of his retainers. Will he? At the moment, he is riding high, and issues like the environment do not loom large. Yet ever since the landmark conservation laws enacted three decades ago under another Republican, Richard Nixon, Americans have demonstrated a commitment to environmental values that transcends party. In times of conflict or economic crisis, this commitment recedes. But it always comes back, and politicians who ignore it pay dearly. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (88%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (87%); LAWYERS (84%); BROWNFIELD SITES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); MAMMALS (77%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); WETLANDS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); WATER QUALITY (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%) ENVIRONMENT; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (90%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002 



875 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL HEALTH; 
Pounds of Prevention in Drops of Baby Blood

BYLINE:  By JANE E. BRODY 

 BODY:
In 1963, Dr. Robert Guthrie of the University of Buffalo gave birth to an early detection technique that has since saved the health and lives of countless babies. With a few drops of blood drawn from a newborn baby's heel, he showed that a retardation-causing genetic disorder called PKU (for phenylketonuria) could be detected -- and ultimately treated -- before an affected baby's brain was irreversibly damaged.
 Now, whether parents know it or not, nearly every baby born in a United States hospital, birthing center or at home with a midwife -- more than four million babies a year -- donates a few drops of blood to be tested for PKU and two or more other very serious genetic and metabolic disorders that may otherwise go unnoticed until irreversible damage or death occurs. 
 When these disorders are detected early in an infant's life and treated properly, affected babies may be spared such devastating conditions as mental retardation, stunted growth, failure to thrive and early death. 
Practicing physicians are only dimly aware of many of these disorders, some of which occur only once in as many as several hundred thousand births. But without newborn screening, an affected baby is often subjected to countless tests once symptoms develop, leading to a serious delay in diagnosis and effective treatment and resulting in permanent harm.
Every state does newborn screening, making this one of the largest prevention programs in the country. But since each state devises its own screening program, the programs vary greatly, and which and how many disorders a baby is tested for depends entirely upon where the child is born.
Babies born in Massachusetts, with the most comprehensive program, are tested for 11 conditions. Those born in New York are screened for eight -- and soon nine. But babies entering the world in West Virginia are checked for only three. (Black babies are tested for a fourth, sickle-cell anemia.) Those born in eight other states, including California, are screened for only four disorders.
Dr. Kenneth A. Pass, director of New York's Newborn Screening Program in Albany, says one baby in every 550 born in the state tests positive for one of the eight screened conditions. The doctor of record and the hospital are notified of the results, usually within seven days. Those testing positive are referred to doctors for further work-ups and treatment. Newborn screening nationwide identifies 3,000 babies a year with treatable disorders that would otherwise have heartbreaking consequences and enormous societal costs.
For example, one baby in 12,000 is born with PKU, a genetic disorder that results when the baby inherits a recessive PKU gene from each parent. Every state screens for this. If untreated, PKU causes progressive developmental delay in the first year of life, , severe mental retardation, seizures, autisticlike behavior and a peculiar odor.
Treatment involves a restricted low-protein diet that avoids foods and artificial sweeteners containing the amino acid phenylalanine. For maximum protection, the diet must be begun before the baby is 4 weeks old and continued throughout life. Strictly followed, the diet results in normal growth and development and normal intelligence. 

Advances on the Horizon
Rapid technological developments may soon make it possible to screen a newborn for as many as 40 different conditions using only five drops of blood and one analytic procedure, Dr. Pass told a seminar sponsored by the March of Dimes.
"Although the conditions, taken individually, are rare, collectively they are not so rare," he said, "and as the technology has advanced, the economies of screening have increased since more information can be gleaned from the same five drops of blood at no additional cost."
New York, for one, plans to begin screening for 40 conditions as soon as the equipment is in place.
Although the quality of screening programs may vary from state to state, the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention operates a national quality assurance program that allows states to check how well they are doing and to correct technical problems. Screening costs are sometimes covered by state and federal dollars, as in New York, but more often hospitals assess a fee, usually covered by insurance. Many states, including New York, store the dried blood specimens for possible future use.
In most cases, a disorder is included in a screening program for three reasons: the condition is not likely to be obvious to a doctor when the baby is born, it causes serious damage in the first weeks or months of life and, if treatment is begun early, the amount of damage can be minimized or averted.
Other factors taken into account include a low risk that the tests performed would falsely label babies as affected (false positives) or that affected babies would be missed (false negatives).
Accuracy of screening tests is often reduced when blood is taken before a baby is 24 hours old, and now mothers with newborns are required to stay in the hospital at least that long.

8 Other Major Tests
In addition to tests for PKU and hearing impairment, the March of Dimes recommends a "core group" of eight other newborn screening tests, as follows:
*MCAD (pronounced EM-cad), an inherited disorder affecting one baby in 15,000 in which an enzyme needed to convert fat to energy is missing. Seemingly well children can suddenly develop seizures, respiratory failure, cardiac arrest, coma and death. Treatment includes steady food or glucose intake and avoidance of fasting.
*Congenital hypothyroidism, affecting one baby in 4,000, in which a deficiency of thyroid hormone severely retards growth and brain development. Oral doses of thyroid hormone permit normal development.
*Congenital adrenal hyperplasia, an inherited disorder affecting one baby in 5,000, involving defects in the synthesis of adrenal hormones. Severe forms can cause life-threatening salt loss. Treatment includes replacement of salt and the missing hormones.
*Biotinidase deficiency, occurring once in 70,000 births, causing deficiency of the essential B vitamin biotin and resulting in frequent infections, uncoordinated movements, hearing loss, seizures and mental retardation. All can be prevented by giving the baby extra biotin.
*Maple syrup urine disease, a lethal, retardation-causing metabolic error known technically as branched-chain ketoaciduria that affects one baby in 250,000. Damage is minimized by a special diet continued for life. 
*Galactosemia, affecting one baby in 50,000 who is born missing the liver enzyme needed to convert the milk sugar galactose into glucose and leading to blindness, severe mental retardation, infection and death. Treatment involves eliminating milk and other dairy products from the baby's diet.
*Homocystinuria, occurring in one baby in 275,000, involves a deficiency of an enzyme that converts homocysteine into cystathionine, needed for normal brain development. The resulting risk of mental retardation, eye problems, skeletal abnormalities and stroke can be reduced by a special diet and high doses of vitamin B6 or B12.
*Sickle-cell anemia, an inherited red blood cell disorder that affects one baby in 400 among African-Americans and one in 1,000 to one in 30,000 among Hispanics and results in severe pain, damage to vital organs, high susceptibility to dangerous bacterial infections, stroke and sometimes death in childhood. These babies require vigilant medical care, special immunizations, aggressive treatment of pain and infections and sometimes oxygen therapy.
If any such disorder is detected in a newborn baby, the parents and the other children in the family may be tested to identify carriers of the defective gene. Prenatal diagnosis may sometimes be possible in future pregnancies.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 2002

 CORRECTION:
The Personal Health column in Science Times on Jan. 29 about testing the blood of newborns for genetic and metabolic disorders misidentified the state with the most comprehensive program. It is Wisconsin, which tests for 21 conditions, not Massachusetts, which tests for 11.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A blood sample is taken from the heel of a newborn baby and screened for a variety of genetic and metabolic disorders. (Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (92%); GENETIC DISEASES (90%); PEDIATRIC TESTING (90%); MENTAL RETARDATION (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (89%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (89%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); MIDWIVES (78%); ANEMIA (77%); SICKLE CELL DISEASE (72%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (72%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; BLOOD; TESTS AND TESTING; GENETICS AND HEREDITY 

PERSON: BRODY, JANE E 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: PERSONAL HEALTH (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



876 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1991 words

HEADLINE: Planet or No, It's On to Pluto 

BYLINE:  By KENNETH CHANG

 BODY:
In 1991, the United States Postal Service issued a series of stamps commemorating American space exploration. The stamp for Pluto consisted of a painting of a grayish disk with an apology of sorts underneath: "Not Yet Explored."
 Pluto, the smallest and farthest of the solar system's planets, is still the only planet not yet visited by a spacecraft. 
 In the 72 years since Clyde W. Tombaugh, an astronomer at the Lowell Observatory in Flagstaff, Ariz., spotted Pluto as a point of light on one of his photographic plates, Pluto has largely remained just that: a point of light. Ground-based telescopes are not powerful enough to pick out any details of its surface. 
But with ingenuity, astronomers have learned a lot just by staring intently at the point of light. Specific colors in the light point to the composition of its surface and thin atmosphere. By measuring how it brightened and dimmed during eclipses with its moon Charon, scientists have even created a rough map of its surface.
"We know quite a bit in general," said Dr. John A. Stansberry, an astronomer at the Steward Observatory in Tucson, "but we don't know a lot in particular."
In the public limelight, Pluto has recently been the subject of a custody battle between those who say it should be counted among the Kuiper Belt objects -- a ring of icy rocks beyond the orbit of Neptune that failed to coalesce into a larger planet -- and those who attack any efforts to diminish Pluto's status as the ninth planet. That debate boils down to what is a planet and what is not, a seemingly straightforward concept with no precise definition.
Beyond semantics, planetary scientists care about Pluto because, like comets, it may be made of many of the same materials as the primordial solar system.
Pluto, together with the thousands of Kuiper Belt objects, represents a "fossil remnant" of the planet-making process, said Dr. S. Alan Stern, director of space studies at the Southwest Research Institute in Boulder, Colo. "Here we have, for some reasons we do not understand, a place where accretion was halted in midstep."
Pluto also appears to be a close cousin of Triton, one of the large moons of Neptune, and some hypothesize that other, large Pluto-like bodies remain hidden farther out in the Kuiper Belt.
Despite its distance from the Sun -- 2.9 billion miles and growing -- Pluto is not just an unchanging, frozen iceball. Its polar caps wax and wane over the decades. There are suspicions that as the atmosphere thins, the winds will accelerate to a couple hundred miles per hour.
Planetary scientists desperately want a closer look at Pluto, and NASA's off-and-on plans to send a mission there are on again, at least for the moment.
After canceling its own efforts in September 2000, NASA last November chose a team led by the Southwest Research Institute and the Johns Hopkins University's Applied Physics Laboratory to design, build and operate a reconnaissance mission to Pluto at a cost of $546 million, including projected inflation. Continuing on to explore a Kuiper Belt object would cost an additional $73 million.
As recently as a decade ago, Pluto was regarded as a single oddball at the fringe of the solar system of little scientific interest. The first Kuiper Belt object was seen in 1992 and hundreds more have been cataloged since in that vast expanse of unexplored real estate.
After years of exploring the inner solar system and the gas giants, "This is a mission to reconnoiter the third geographic region of the solar system," said Dr. Stern, the mission's principal investigator. Pluto, he said, has moved in scientific importance "from footnote to center stage."
Called New Horizons, the spacecraft is expected to be launched in January 2006 and will take a decade to travel to its destination to explore Pluto, Charon and a couple of the Kuiper Belt bodies.
Congress provided $30 million in this year's budget for preliminary design work, but the administration's budget plans for 2003 and beyond currently do not include any money for actually building and flying the mission.
"I'm glad it's getting started," said Dr. Marc W. Buie, an astronomer at Lowell. "I think it's a travesty it takes this long to get to this point." He added, "On the other hand, we can't kick a gift horse in the mouth."
Dr. Richard P. Binzel, a professor of planetary sciences at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said the uncertainty was familiar to Pluto researchers.
"The analogy a lot of us give is it's like Lucy holding the football," he said, referring to the "Peanuts" comic strip character who inevitably jerks away the football as Charlie Brown tries to kick it. 
"Once again," Dr. Binzel said, "the football is there."
New Horizons may be the last chance for a while. After 2007, Jupiter will move out of position for providing a spacecraft with a convenient, no-cost gravitational catapult to Pluto; a direct trajectory would probably be slower and require some new, and therefore more risky, propulsion technology.
Scientists also worry that with further delays, there will be much less to see when the spacecraft finally gets there. Pluto is on the outbound leg of its elliptical orbit, and as temperatures, now ranging between minus-395 degrees and minus-370 degrees Fahrenheit, get colder, its already tenuous atmosphere may literally freeze solid and fall to the ground. Computer models differ on when the freeze-out will occur, but most expect Pluto's air to be gone by 2020.
Dr. Stansberry of the Steward Observatory, however, is not sure. His calculations indicate that the crystal structure of the nitrogen ice on the surface will change to a different shape that will not radiate heat as easily. "It just cools off less quickly after that point," he said. The atmosphere will thin, but not fully collapse.
But if it does freeze, it will remain frozen until after 2200, when Pluto's 248-year orbit will again come close enough to the Sun for it to be heated back into vapor.
Also, more and more of the planet is entering extended darkness, the same way that Antarctica plunges into a six-month-long night every year. Because Pluto's axis is almost keeled over on its side, the darkness will envelop most of its southern hemisphere, putting it out of view for decades.
This history of Pluto science is a mix of hide-and-seek and fortuitous observation.
Tombaugh spent years searching for a hypothesized ninth planet to explain small perturbations in the orbits of Uranus and Neptune, and then on Feb. 18, 1930, he found Pluto. Tombaugh's discovery turned out to be more the product of chance and persistence than deduction: the perturbation calculations were incorrect, and Pluto, once thought to be larger than Earth, turned out to be smaller than Earth's Moon -- too small to account for the perturbations, in any case.
In June 1978, while taking photographs to better map Pluto's orbit, James W. Christy, an astronomer at a United States Naval Observatory telescope in Flagstaff, noticed that in one image, Pluto's point of light seemed to have a bump on it. He went back and looked at other photographs and Pluto seemed to have a bump in many of those images, too, and the bump seemed to be moving around.
The most plausible explanation for the bump was that it was a moon circling Pluto, and he named it Charon, after the ferryman in Greek myth who transports the dead across the river Styx.
In 1985, Dr. Binzel, then a graduate student at the University of Texas, confirmed the moon hypothesis when he observed an eclipse of Charon passing in front of Pluto. For the next five years, Charon's orbit faced Earth almost edge-on, and Pluto and Charon took turns passing in front of each other.
With each eclipse, Charon passed over a different strip of Pluto. By measuring the dip in brightness during the eclipse, scientists could deduce the brightness of the hidden piece. "It was like scanning the disk of Pluto for us," Dr. Binzel said.
With that data, astronomers constructed a map of Pluto's surface. "We derived a map of one hemisphere of Pluto that is considerably better than what is possible to do even with the Hubble Space Telescope," said Dr. Buie of the Lowell Observatory.
What they saw were blotchy regions of light and dark with especially bright landscape at the poles, especially the south pole. (In 1994, Hubble took the first picture that could directly show some of Pluto's features -- still blurry blotches.)
That was a surprise because that meant there had to be weather and seasons. It frosts on Pluto.
"To get something so bright, it's got to be very fresh because space is a dirty place, and bright places turn dark," Dr. Binzel said.
Because different molecules absorb different colors of light, more detailed analysis of which wavelengths of light dimmed during the eclipses revealed some of what is on the surfaces of Charon and Pluto. "The difference tells you what's on the two pieces," Dr. Buie said. "What's there and what went away."
That turned out to be nitrogen, methane and carbon monoxide frost on Pluto, water frost on Charon.
The duration of the eclipses -- each lasted a couple of hours -- also allowed accurate calculation of the relative sizes of Pluto and Charon. (The Hubble image further nailed down the sizes. Pluto is 1,440 miles wide. Charon is 790 miles wide. By comparison, the diameters of Earth and the Moon are 7,900 miles and 2,160 miles.)
Another fortuitous alignment of the night sky occurred in 1988, when Pluto passed in front of a distant star. Again, astronomers examined the colors of starlight that were absorbed by Pluto's atmosphere and found its air was nitrogen with a bit of methane.
In the past decade, there have been no more eclipses between Pluto and Charon and no more fortuitous alignments of stars. Astronomers, however, continue to learn more, if only to form more questions.
Pluto has been getting dimmer over the decades because the bright south pole has been moving out of sight. But with the north pole coming into view, "I should already be seeing Pluto getting brighter again," said Dr. Buie. Instead, after the brightness leveled during the 1980's, Pluto has started fading again.
"I don't have an explanation for that yet," Dr. Buie said. "I don't know if it's just darker in the north pole area." Another possibility is that the bright frost has not yet formed. 
Another puzzling feature is that the color signature for carbon monoxide gas on Pluto's surface appears and disappears on a 6.4-day cycle -- the length of a day on Pluto. Dr. Buie hypothesizes that the carbon monoxide ice is located at a single site, possibly a meteor impact within the past few million years that exposed material from deep underground. Consulting the map of Pluto, he said he had a good candidate for the impact site.
That is speculation, but it gives planners for the New Horizons mission a site at which they should definitely point their cameras when the spacecraft arrives, probably in 2016.
New Horizons will carry a camera with a long-range telephoto lens that will start taking pictures months before the flyby, a second camera that will take pictures during the flyby, and an instrument to analyze atoms and molecules escaping from Pluto's atmosphere. 
Its antenna will take part in an experiment that will also analyze the atmosphere. Transmitters on Earth will broadcast a strong signal to the spacecraft, which will measure how the radio waves are altered by the passage through the atmosphere and then radio back the results. That will tell not only the composition, but the temperature and density of gases.
But first, there is the question of whether the spacecraft will be built. After waiting a decade for a Pluto mission, Pluto researchers are still waiting.
"Oh boy, that's a loaded question," Dr. Binzel said. "I'm as optimistic as I've ever been that the Pluto mission will become a reality. It's time we finished the basic reconnaissance of the solar system, and that's what this mission does."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In 1994, the Hubble Space Telescope took pictures of Pluto, then 2.7 billion miles from Earth. The top photos are the Hubble images; the large ones are computer-generated images of Pluto's opposite hemispheres. (Associated Press/NASA)(pg. F4) Chart: "New Horizons: The Economy Model"NASA sought to make this probe, shown with Pluto and Charon behind it, a relatively inexpensive project. How costs are reduced: TRAJECTORY -- A more direct route means a shorter mission.HIBERNATION -- The craft is to be dormant for about three-fourths of its journey, transmitting progress reports but otherwise quiet. One team can staff several missions as each craft's active phases alternate.NO NEW INVENTIONS -- The probe is planned to use only existing technologies, eliminating some development costs. Chart: "An Opportune Time to Visit'In 1989, Pluto passed as close as it gets to the Sun along its 248-year elliptical orbit. Launching while Pluto is near helps in two ways: MORE TO EXAMINE -- As it moves away from the Sun and gets colder, its atmosphere thins to almost nothing, revealing less about the planet. MORE LIGHT -- Parts of Pluto and Charon never get sunlight. Dark areas will grow larger as the two objects travel farther from the Sun. Now, more of their surfaces can be seen and photographed. A similar craft would need about 17 years to reach Pluto if it was at its outermost orbit. MARCH 2007: JUPITER FLYBYNew Horizons will get a boost in velocity when Jupiter's gravity propels it onward. SIZE OF EARTHMore than five times the diameter of Pluto, drawn here to scale. Chart: "An Icy Enigma"Tiny, frosty and barely visible from Earth, Pluto eluded astronomers until 1930. Charon, its only moon, was discovered in 1978. These artist's renditions depict what scientists expect to see in detail 14 years from now: objects about two-thirds rock and one-third frozen water. The planet is covered in nitrogen frost and traces of methane and carbon monoxide ices; its moon is crusted with water ice. Chart: "A 10-Year Journey"Scientists are planning the first mission to the smallest and outermost planet in the solar system -- the only one not yet visited by spacecraft. After itsencounter with Pluto, the New Horizons probe is to head for the Kuiper Belt, a ring of frozen objects beyond Neptune. JULY 2016: PREFERRED ARRIVAL DATEThe probe is to collect Pluto data three months before and three months after its 27,290 m.p.h. flyby. JANUARY 2006: LAUNCHINGNew Horizons is to be carried from Cape Canaveral, Fla., by either a Delta IV or an Atlas V rocket. (Sources: Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Southwest Research Institute)(pg.F1) Drawings (Bill Marsh/The New York Times); (Ken Moscati and Daniel Durda)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (91%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (91%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); POSTAL SERVICE (73%); SPACECRAFT (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%); SOUTHWEST RESEARCH INSTITUTE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (84%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (58%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); FLAGSTAFF, AZ, USA (57%) PLUTO (94%); NEPTUNE (93%); EARTH (92%); JUPITER (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



877 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Bargain Acquisitions Evaporate in Korea 

BYLINE:  By DON KIRK 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
The Korean fire sale appears to be ending.
 Foreign companies that as recently as last fall were nearly begged to come to Seoul in a mood to buy huge, deeply indebted Korean companies are now finding that improving economic prospects and a rising stock market have given the Koreans across the negotiating table new confidence and a new resistance to selling at bargain prices. 
 Talks between Hynix Semiconductor and Micron Technology appeared today to have reached an impasse, with the two sides about $2 billion apart on how much Micron should pay for Hynix's memory chip plants. 
Both companies confirmed that they had failed to come to terms in a fourth round of talks in Los Angeles last week. Hynix, which is being run by its creditors, led by the Korea Exchange Bank, pending a sale, wanted at least $5 billion; Micron said it would not go above $3 billion.
In addition, General Motors is having increasing difficulty turning an agreement in principle into a completed deal to acquire most of the bankrupt Daewoo Motor. And a deal to sell three financial companies in the Hyundai group to American investors fell apart this month.
"The problem with all these deals is the price," said Brian Hunsaker of Nomura Securities. "The Koreans don't see any of them as a win-win. They think, if the foreigners get it, then Korea is losing."
Lee Keun Young, chairman of the Financial Supervisory Commission, may have scared away new bidders for the financial companies when he said the asking price had risen as Korea's economy had improved. 
Mr. Lee made the remark after the American International Group, the giant insurer based in New York, pulled out of a consortium holding talks to buy the companies; A.I.G. was to have contributed $400 million, half the cash the group would put up. Another consortium member, the investor Wilbur Ross, said he hoped to find a replacement for A.I.G.
"It's going to be pretty hard to find another investor," said Park Nei Hei, dean of the business school at Sogang University.
The G.M.-Daewoo talks are at a much more advanced stage, but they have been dragging for four months since the main terms were announced. Kim Kye Sup, G.M.'s spokesman here, said that there was "some positive discussion going on" but that "a couple of items are pending," including revisions of union contracts, the status of overseas plants and tax concessions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); MEMORY CHIPS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); COMPUTER CHIPS (76%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (76%); TRENDS (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (68%); BONDS (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (64%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER CHIPS; AUTOMOBILES; BANKRUPTCIES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: SK HYNIX INC (74%); HYUNDAI GROUP (68%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (57%); KOREA EXCHANGE BANK (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: HYNIX SEMICONDUCTOR; MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; DAEWOO MOTOR CO 

TICKER: HY9H (FRA) (74%); 000660 (KSE) (74%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); MU (NASDAQ) (57%); 004940 (KSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (74%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (74%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%) SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; 

PERSON: KIRK, DON 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%) SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



878 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Motorcycles Find Market In Brazil's Countryside 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER L. RICH 

DATELINE: ITACOATIARA, Brazil 

 BODY:
If you buy a motorcycle from Onelio Pimentel, you will be guest of honor at his monthly party in the town square. He will send you a card every year on your birthday. And he will always be waiting with a smile to show you the next new model.
 Mr. Pimentel, the 30-year-old business manager of the only Honda motorcycle dealer in this city of 72,000 on the banks of the Amazon, has good reason to grin. Despite an economic slowdown and an energy crisis that affected most of Brazilian industry, the number of motorcycles sold countrywide in 2001 jumped 20.5 percent, to 692,096. According to Abraciclo, the trade group for the two-wheeled sector, that makes it Brazil's highest-growth industry. Car sales grew around 9 percent in 2001, while overall industrial production is expected to have finished the year up only around 2 percent. 
 Honda dealerships around the country, backed by management at Honda do Brasil, spearheaded the country's motorcycle boom. They recognized that there was a huge market to be won in the interior of the country, where a population with growing acquisitive power is largely trapped in towns with poor or nonexistent roads, and since the mid-1990's they have gone after it with a vengeance. Though always No. 1 in sales in Brazil, Honda controlled 90 percent of the market by 1997, mostly at the expense of its only real competitor in the country, Yamaha. Brazil now accounts for more than 10 percent of Honda's global motorcycle sales, making it one of the company's largest markets -- larger than the United States or Japan.
To lure these potential customers, Honda had to bring down prices and offer inexpensive financing.
The company began investing heavily in its only factory in South America, a plant opened in 1976 with a great deal more promise than resources in the Manaus free trade zone, an industrial park in the Amazon jungle some 200 miles from here. Production has about doubled in the last four years, to around 60,000 motorcycles a month, including some for export. As production increased, the company has been able to convince a growing number of its suppliers to set up shop in the area, reducing costs. To improve the distribution and display of its wares, Honda also opened showrooms and service centers -- even in some of the remotest parts of the country.
In 1996, when Mr. Pimentel started coming to Itacoatiara as a traveling salesman for the Honda dealer in Manaus, he would sell around 50 so-called consortium subscriptions a month, a method of financing commonly offered in Brazil by companies selling big-ticket items. The system -- part auction, part lottery, part layaway -- dictates which customers take home new motorcycles each month.
Since he was put in charge of opening a local Honda showroom in 2000, Mr. Pimentel says his consortium subscriptions have doubled. Now, he says, he is delivering about 45 motorcycles a month in Itacoatiara and six small neighboring towns at a price of around $75 a month for 60 months for the basic 125cc model. This bottom-of-the-line motorcycle, known as the Titan, accounts for more than half of Honda's motorcycle sales countrywide.
Motorcycles started appearing on the streets in greater numbers in recent years as the 1995 Real Plan succeeded in controlling Brazil's runaway inflation. Countrywide, the number of motorcycles sold has quadrupled since then.
"The Real Plan was great because now you can buy a moto over four or five years and the payment is always the same," said Cleandro Almeida, 29, who has been a moto-taxi driver for two years on his silver Honda Titan. "When inflation was 50 percent or 60 percent a month it was impossible. Your payment would start at $60 a month, then the next month it would be close to $100."
Now, on Avenida Torquato Tapajos, the main road here, at least 10 motos pass for every car. A family of four, including an infant in arms, glides to a stop in front of the pharmacy. Adolescent lovebirds hold hands from the backs of two scooters.
Dealers say there are 4,000 to 5,000 motorcycles in circulation here, and most of the motos are Hondas. But competition is coming hard and fast from Yamaha, which has succeeded in rebuilding some of its lost market share. After sinking to 6.1 percent of the Brazilian market in 1999, Yamaha's share was about 10 percent in 2001. Honda's is now around 88 percent.
In Itacoatiara, a Yamaha dealership opened in 2001. Joao Bosco Rodriguez, its owner, is busy signing deals with the moto-taxi union and the city government for bulk discounts. He wants to take over 30 percent of the local market in three years.
For now, Honda loyalty in this city seems to run deep.
"My mother says that she will never buy a Yamaha," said Monique Gomes, a 13-year-old with a shy smile, who works as a sales trainee at Yamaha. "Can you believe it?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Motorcycles have become popular in the interior of Brazil, where roads are poor or nonexistent and the population has become affluent. (Alberto Cesar Araujo for The New York Times) Map of Brazil highlighting Itacoatiara: Honda makes about 60,000 motorcycles a month in Brazil. (pg. W7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); MOTORCYCLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); MOTORCYCLE DEALERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CITIES (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); TRENDS (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); SALES PROSPECTING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (70%); AUCTIONS (68%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (67%) MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR BIKES AND MOTORSCOOTERS; SALES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%)

ORGANIZATION: HONDA MOTOR CO 

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (93%); HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%)

PERSON: RICH, JENNIFER L 

GEOGRAPHIC: AMAZON RIVER (88%) BRAZIL (99%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



879 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Argentines Check Their Baggage 

BYLINE:  By Roberto Gonzalez Echevarria; Roberto Gonzalez Echevarria, professor of Hispanic and comparative literatures at Yale, is author, most recently, of "The Pride of Havana: A History of Cuban Baseball."

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
Argentines are the object of much mock derision from other Latin Americans, who laugh at their air of superiority, their pretension, their arrogance. Jokes abound: Why do Argentines run outdoors when there's lightning? Because they think that God is taking their picture. Nothing could be more humiliating to an Argentine than having to emigrate to, of all places, Spain.
 But alas, since the collapse of the Argentinian economy, Argentines have been flocking there, in hopes of starting anew. It is a huge historical irony that would have brought a sardonic smile to the face of that greatest of all Argentine ironists, Jorge Luis Borges, who once wrote: "Argentine history can unequivocally be defined as a desire to move away from Spain." 
 Most Americans misunderstand the relation we Latin Americans have to Spain, thinking it is like theirs to England. In the United States, English things have an aura of sophistication and superiority. But through much of Latin America, Spaniards are viewed less charitably; to speak with a Spanish accent is considered a real handicap. As Borges once said: Spaniards "speak louder, with the aplomb of those who know no doubt." 
These are class prejudices, of course, because many of the Spaniards who emigrated to Latin America in the early 20th century were poor. Many did not even speak Spanish well because they came from Galicia or the Basque country (like some of my ancestors, who ended up in Cuba). In Argentina, the Spaniards and the Italians (who emigrated there in even larger numbers) were mostly dialect-speaking peasants who did not want their roots known. Even today most Argentines want to be French or English, not Italian or Spanish, please -- and Latin American only because of unavoidable propinquity.
The role reversal we are now seeing is so neat it exceeds the crassest fiction. Around the turn of the 20th century, when the majority of Spanish immigrants arrived in Buenos Aires, Argentina's economic boom promised a stable future, while Spain, after a humiliating defeat in the Spanish-American War, wallowed in political and financial crisis. Spain was left out of the circle of European powers whose empires had been built in the 19th century; its own, built in the 16th, had collapsed. One after another, Latin American countries had become independent and forged new alliances with European countries and the United States.
Argentina was prosperous and cultured, with a capital that rivaled European cities and one of the richest literatures in the New World. A pilgrimage to Buenos Aires was de rigueur for Spanish writers and intellectuals, like the philosopher Jose Ortega y Gasset and the poet Federico Garcia Lorca. Spain had none of this, as it turned inward during the Franco years that followed the civil war.
But now Spain has emerged as a leading industrial country, enjoying political stability and prosperity. It is sophisticated and European, with money to buy back part of its former empire, as it is doing in Cuba. Spain is the second-largest investor in Argentina, following the United States. (My Argentine friends have complained to me that their country is turning into another Cuba. An outrage, after they gave us a rebel with a cause, Che Guevara. An Argentine.) Spanish investors are now trembling about the magnitude of their potential losses. And Spaniards at home are having to get used to the new Argentine immigration.
The Argentines now returning to Spain are very different from their grandparents, many of whom were poor Spanish emigrants. They are (or were) middle-class and educated, and they expect white-collar work. Anything below that will certainly bruise their Argentine pride. But need may force them to be less discerning. Spaniards, for their part, are going to have to accept these new immigrants in spite of their reputation, as, well, Argentines.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lauren Redniss) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); IMMIGRATION (85%); REFUGEES (77%); EURO CRISIS (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TRENDS (64%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARGENTINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SPAIN; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; HISTORY 

PERSON: GONZALEZ ECHEVARRIA, ROBERTO (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%); GALICIA, SPAIN (79%) ARGENTINA (99%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); SPAIN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CUBA (79%); ENGLAND (79%) ARGENTINA; SPAIN

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



880 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Tyson Foods Reports Surge in Net Income 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: SPRINGDALE, Ark., Jan. 28 

 BODY:
Tyson Foods Inc. said today that its earnings soared in its fiscal first quarter as the company benefited from the acquisition of the beef and pork producer IBP Inc. and as profit margins on chicken improved.
 Net income rose to $126.9 million, or 36 cents a share, in the three months ended Dec. 29, compared with $27 million, or 12 cents, in the 2000 period. Revenue rose to $5.86 billion from $1.77 billion, reflecting the addition of IBP. 
 Cheaper hogs and cattle reduced the cost of pork and beef processing from IBP slaughterhouses. Cattle prices fell 7.6 percent in the quarter and hog prices fell 5.5 percent, the company said. Chicken profit grew as prices rose and Tyson sold more to restaurants and supermarkets. 
"Our pork business had a tremendous quarter, and our beef and prepared-foods segments showed solid results," Tyson's chief executive, John Tyson, said in a statement. 
Results matched Tyson's Jan. 3 estimate, and the company increased its forecast for the current fiscal year, saying profit would be $1.10 to $1.20 a share. Earnings in the current quarter will be 17 cents to 20 cents a share, the company said. 
The $4.4 billion purchase of IBP gave Tyson Foods control of about 28 percent of the nation's beef market, 23 percent of the chicken market and 18 percent of the pork market, analysts estimate. 
Beef accounted for 44 percent of the quarter's $5.86 billion in sales and 18 percent of operating income of $273 million, the company said. Pork accounted for 17 percent of operating income.
The current quarter will be "much more challenging," Tyson said.
Feedlots are fattening fewer cattle, signaling reduced availability of slaughter-ready animals and higher prices. The prospect of more expensive cattle comes as recession and declining exports hurt demand for beef. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (92%); PORK (92%); BEEF (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (90%); MEATS (90%); FOOD MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); HOG & PIG FARMING (89%); POULTRY (79%); POULTRY PROCESSING (79%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PREPARED FOODS (74%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (55%); EXECUTIVES (53%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: TYSON FOODS INC (98%); TYSON FRESH MEATS INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: TYSON FOODS INC 

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (98%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (98%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (98%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (98%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (91%); SIC2011 MEAT PACKING PLANTS (91%) SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING; SIC2011 MEAT PACKING PLANTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



881 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: The Great Divide 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It was a shocking event. With incredible speed, our perception of the world and of ourselves changed. It seemed that before we had lived in a kind of blind innocence, with no sense of the real dangers that lurked. Now we had experienced a rude awakening, which changed everything.
 No, I'm not talking about Sept. 11; I'm talking about the Enron scandal. 
 One of the great cliches of the last few months was that Sept. 11 changed everything. I never believed that. An event changes everything only if it changes the way you see yourself. And the terrorist attack couldn't do that, because we were victims rather than perpetrators. Sept. 11 told us a lot about Wahhabism, but not much about Americanism. 
The Enron scandal, on the other hand, clearly was about us. It told us things about ourselves that we probably should have known, but had managed not to see. I predict that in the years ahead Enron, not Sept. 11, will come to be seen as the greater turning point in U.S. society.
Quite a few people have belittled the significance of the Enron affair -- not just Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, with his unfortunate remark about how "companies come and companies go," but commentators who don't think a failed business is that much of a story. Think of it this way: The business of most Americans is business, and Enron already ranks as one of the biggest business scandals in history. There have been other big, admired companies that failed; there have been other companies that turned out to be largely fraudulent. But I can't think of another case in which the most admired company turned out to be a fraud. 
So even if the story turns out just to be about Enron, it has been an object lesson in how appearances can deceive. And I don't think this is just a story about one company.
Before Enron collapsed, the economic story of the last few years seemed more of a comedy than a tragedy. Yes, many people lost money, but they did so because they were foolish -- they bought stock because they believed New Age economic drivel, or because they thought William Shatner made great ads. 
Now the story looks vastly darker. People didn't deceive themselves; they were deceived. 
It's true that Enron got a lot of mileage out of the same kind of new-economy jargon that fed the dot-com bubble -- for example, former C.E.O. Jeffrey Skilling liked to say that the company was "virtually integrated." 
But despite the high-tech veneer, the structure appeared solid: Enron wasn't a profitless dot-com, run by crazy kids. It seemed to be a company with a proven track record. Its executives seemed to be smart but solid, personable men. It seemed to be a company with a great work ethos, a sense of mutual loyalty. Then it came apart at the seems.
So now what? At the moment, demands for reform are scattershot and confused. Some people want new rules for 401(k) plans; some want new rules for accountants; some want campaign finance reform; some want a return to regulation. These seem like unrelated agendas, but I think they have a common theme: They're all about ending an era of laxity, in which nobody asked hard questions as long as everything looked O.K. That era is now over.
The political speculation right now focuses on who will take the blame for what happened. I admit it: that's a very interesting question. But I suspect that for those who are not directly implicated -- and most politicians won't be -- what will matter is not what they did but what they do. Do they act as if they get it -- that they understand that the old laxity is no longer acceptable?
Clearly, Dick Cheney doesn't get it: He thinks, after all that has happened, that we should just trust his assurance that energy companies did not distort his energy plan. Clearly, Harvey Pitt, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, doesn't get it: I don't pretend to understand the institutional issues in accounting reform, but everyone I know who does regards his supposed reform plan as ludicrous. Clearly, Marc Racicot doesn't get it: He thinks that we should just trust him when he says that he won't lobby as chairman of the Republican National Committee, even though his former lobbying firm will pay his salary. 
Does Tom Daschle get it? Will George W. Bush get it? The answers to those questions may well decide their, and the country's, political future. Enron, I predict, will turn out to have changed everything. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); NEW ECONOMY (85%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); TERRORISM (76%); HIJACKING (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); ETHICS (71%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (54%) BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (64%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



882 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Sales of New Homes Set a Record Last Year 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 28 

 BODY:
Sales of new homes rose 5.7 percent in December and set a record for the year, the government said today, as the housing sector registered a stunning performance despite the economic recession.
 "It's the one resilient part of the economy, the one that has continued to impress throughout this recession," said Fred Breimyer, chief economist for State Street. 
 New homes sold last month at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 946,000, up from a revised 895,000 pace in November, the Commerce Department said. Analysts had expected a 1 percent decline. 
Sales for the entire year were 900,000 units, 2.6 percent above the 877,000 for 2000. The annual figure is the highest since the government began keeping track in 1963, and it exceeds the 1998 high of 886,000.
Sales of existing homes also set a record for 2001, at 5.251 million units, the National Association of Realtors said last week.
Sales of new homes soared 35.1 percent in the West, but fell in all other parts of the country, dropping 9.6 percent in the Midwest, 1.4 percent in the Northeast and 1.1 percent in the South.
Economists discounted the surge in the West, saying warm weather might have been a big factor.
The median price for a new home rose to $170,200 from $162,800 in November.
But because of low interest rates and lean inventories, housing activity has remained strong throughout the economic downturn. In one of the most aggressive rate-cutting sprees in history, the Federal Reserve cut short-term rates 11 times last year to lift the flagging economy.
The popular 30-year fixed-rate mortgage fell as low as 6.45 percent in early November but rose to more than 7 percent in December, according to Freddie Mac. It stood at 6.96 percent in the week ended Friday, Freddie Mac said.
"It's been a very unusual downturn -- all consumer-related areas have held up well, including housing, and housing has gotten the additional boost from the rate environment," said Jan Hatzius, an economist for Goldman Sachs.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "New-Home Sales"Annual rate in thousands of new private homes sold during month, seasonally adjusted. Monthly Change (from July 2000-December 2001) Dec.: +5.7%Nov.: +5.2Oct.: -0.4(Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "Prices of New Homes"Median price for new homes in thousands of dollars. Monthly Change Dec.: +4.5%Nov.: -4.7Oct.: +2.7(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (94%); REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%) HOUSING; SALES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



883 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: A Hard Quarter For American Express Profit 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The American Express Company said yesterday that its fourth-quarter profit fell 56 percent as fewer people traveled by air after the terrorist attacks in September.
 Net income dropped to $297 million, or 22 cents a share, compared with $677 million, or 50 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. For all 2001, the company reported net income of $1.31 billion, down 53 percent from 2000 and the first decline since 1994. 
 "It was one of the most difficult years on record for American Express," said David Ashby, who helps manage the $2.5 billion Wells Fargo Equity Income Fund, before the financial results were announced. The fund owns about 1.2 million American Express shares.
American Express is eliminating about 15 percent of its work force and cutting expenses as it deals with an economic slowdown that has hurt its credit card and asset management businesses. 
The fourth-quarter results fell short of analysts' expectations of 23 cents a share in profit, according to Thomson Financial/First Call.
American Express said severance and related costs to eliminate about 6,800 jobs reduced profit in the quarter by $279 million before taxes. But the company also said it would save $280 million in 2002 from those cuts.
Net income in the travel and card subsidiary fell 64 percent, to $170 million, and the company said it set aside more money for credit card losses.
Thousands of workers, including the chief executive, Kenneth I. Chenault, were displaced from American Express headquarters in the World Financial Center in Manhattan when the World Trade Center collapsed across the street.
Alluding to the cost-cutting, Alan Villalon, a fund manager at Federated Investors in Pittsburgh, said before the earnings announcement, "Chenault has been pretty much cleaning up shop there." 
In trading yesterday, American Express fell 70 cents, to $36.29. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TERRORISM (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); CONSUMER LENDING (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (98%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO 

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (98%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); FII (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (98%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (98%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%) SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; 

PERSON: KENNETH I CHENAULT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



884 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Still Family After All These Years; 
New York Companies 100 Years Old and Going Strong

BYLINE:  By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
Enrons they are not. 
 These are venerable New York City institutions: the company that supplied glass eyes to Sammy Davis Jr. and Peter Falk; the company that created Times Square extravaganzas that blew giant smoke rings, filled gargantuan martini glasses and brought Niagara Falls to life; the company that supplies the nation's billiard tables with green baize. 
 Each of these thriving businesses has been around for more than 100 years. They and their historic siblings are the focus of "Family Matters: Century-Old New York City Businesses," an exhibition opening today at The New-York Historical Society. 
"These businesses offer a strong contrast to Enron," said Richard A. Cook, president of the Hundred Year Association of New York, 200 business and nonprofit institutions. 
"They provide a wonderful contrast to bigness," said Mr. Cook, whose group helped mount the show. "They don't get overextended. They stick to their knitting. And they don't require huge amounts of government regulation." 
Nor do they draw the attention of investigators. "Nobody was fooling with their books," Mr. Cook said. "If they had, they wouldn't be around anymore." 
The exhibition displays more than 125 artifacts from 11 businesses, some of which have fifth-generation owners. The materials include neon signs from the ArtKraft Strauss Sign Corporation (founded in 1897); glass eyes made by Mager & Gougelman (1851); a cafe table and chairs from the Ferrara Bakery and Cafe, which has been serving cannoli since 1892; a 19th-century job-printing press used by Continental Corporate Engravers (1890); historic lighting fixtures and stained glass from the Rambusch Decorating Company (1898); and old table linens from the Cascade Linen and Uniform Service Company, also founded in 1898. 
Also providing treasures are the DeWitt Stern Group, an insurance company (1899); John Gallin & Sons, a construction company (1886); the Henry W. T. Mali Company, supplier of green wool cloth for billiard tables (1826); Modell's Sporting Goods (1889); and the Rosenwach Tank Company (1866). (The New York Times, which has been controlled by the Ochs-Sulzberger family since 1896, is not included in the show.)
"These businesses are part of the fabric of everyday life in New York," said Ellen Paul Denker, the exhibition curator. 
On view at the show, which runs through April 28, are product samples, equipment, archival photos and documents, including diaries and family correspondence. 
"It is entirely remarkable that these companies have survived for 100 years or more, and we celebrate their achievement," said Kenneth T. Jackson, president of the New-York Historical Society, at 2 West 77th Street. "People outside of New York think it is a huge city with huge buildings and huge businesses," Dr. Jackson said. But, he said, in an era of titanic chain retailing, "the city is actually the last bastion of the small entrepreneur." 
"Given the backdrop of the Sept. 11 tragedy," Mr. Cook said, "these companies demonstrate a sense of permanence and constancy in the city." 
Though many of these heirloom companies are niche businesses, they can be emblematic. "The water tank is as much a part of the New York skyline as the skyscraper," said Andrew Rosenwach, 48, the president of the company that supplies several hundred wooden water tanks to the city's buildings every year. "We think of ourselves as a utility, and we carry that responsibility with a great deal of pride." 
Then there are the managers and other employees who also have multigenerational credentials, toiling along with the dynastic owners. 
"My father was a foreman, and he used to take me with him to measure signs when I was a kid," said James Manfredi, the chief operating officer of ArtKraft Strauss. "It was only natural for me to go to work at the same company." 
Outsiders may think that the children born into such venerable companies have it made, but no one wants to be the heir who manages to crater the 100-year business. "There are high standards, and much responsibility that you're expected to live up to," Mr. Rosenwach said. "It's difficult to follow in your father's footsteps when your father has been successful."
His great-grandfather, Harris Rosenwach, bought the business for $55 in 1896, and Andrew's grandfather Julius and his father, Wallace, built up the wooden-tank business in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, to the point at which it now employs 75 people. 
Although so far Mr. Rosenwach's 17-year-old daughter, Alissa, "doesn't seem interested in the business," he said, his 13-year-old son, Henry, "is quite attentive when I talk about my trials and tribulations." He laughed. "I wasn't that attentive at that age. I was a slow learner." 
In Mr. Rosenwach's family, succession has always been from father to son, "which makes it easier to resolve disputes," he said.
"If you have a lot of relatives involved, along with their children, there are so many personalities pulling in different ways that issues could be created that would necessitate the sale of the business." 
Mitchell B. Modell, 47, the president of Modell's, resolves family disputes "thanks to a strong board of advisers," he said, "and a full-time industrial psychologist who has been working with us for 15 years now."
His great-grandfather, Morris Modell, opened a general merchandise store on Cortlandt Street in Lower Manhattan in 1889 to cater to visitors debarking from European ships. His grandfather and father, Henry and William D., took the business from an army-and-navy surplus store to a sporting-goods company. 
Mitchell and his brother, Michael, were made co-presidents in 1987; after his brother died last April, Mitchell became the sole president. The company just opened its 90th store, in Herald Square, and its seven-state empire generates nearly $500 million a year in revenues. 
Mr. Modell said there were nine children in the next generation who could join the operation, counting his and his brother's offspring as well as a niece, "and they're chomping at the bit," he said. 
"Our passion about the business, it rubs off." 
Good family relations aren't the only glue at these companies. Genes help, too. "We're still in business thanks to stubbornness," said Tama Starr, president of ArtKraft Strauss, the display and outdoor advertising company. Ms. Starr, who has been with the company for 20 years, declined to give her age "because my grandfather told me never to tell, and I must obey," she said, laughing. 
She bought out her brother Jonathan in 1994, and has been the sole owner of ArtKraft ever since, with 70 employees. They do 1,000 jobs a year, from $100 neon-sign repairs to creating Times Square "spectaculars" that can cost $5 million. The yearly revenues are $15 million. 
Dr. Jackson said displaying the artifacts from ArtKraft Strauss and the other businesses is fitting "because history is more than just dramatic events or rich people or beautiful things or just tragedy," he said. 
"It is also about the ordinariness of life." 
To Ms. Starr, there is nothing ordinary about the life of her 104-year-old company. "It seems to have a life of its own, like a person," she said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Right, Julius Rosenwach at the family business in Brooklyn 40 years ago; left, his grandson, Andrew Rosenwach, at the same spot recently. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B8); ArtKraft store in Lima, Ohio, in 1926; right, Tama Starr, president of ArtKraft Strauss, the display and outdoor advertising company.; Above, the Modell store in 1917; above right, Mitchell B. Modell, the clothing chain's current president, with his father, William D. Modell. (Photographs top and bottom by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); TRENDS (72%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); FABRICS (67%); RETAIL BAKERIES (64%); LINEN SUPPLY (63%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); RETAILERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SMALL BUSINESS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: ARTKRAFT STRAUSS SIGN CORP (67%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY; MODELL'S SPORTING GOODS (CO); ARTKRAFT STRAUSS SIGN CORP; ROSENWACH TANK COMPANY 

INDUSTRY: SIC3993 SIGNS & ADVERTISING SPECIALTIES (67%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



885 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Tax Shortfall Grows Worse In New Jersey 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan 28 

 BODY:
In another sign that New Jersey's fiscal situation continues to deteriorate, the state treasurer announced today that tax revenues in January were at least $470 million less than the state had projected when it adopted its budget last summer.
 That shortfall, which comes after December's tax revenues were $505 million less than expected, prompted the governor's office to increase its estimate of the budget gap for the current fiscal year to $2.9 billion, giving New Jersey a deficit that is 12 percent of its overall budget -- the highest such figure in the nation. 
 Gov. James E. McGreevey, who has imposed across-the-board spending cuts and ordered 600 layoffs, warned that the deficit for the fiscal year beginning July 1 could reach $6 billion. Mr. McGreevey said he would unveil a detailed outline of his plan to close the deficit on Feb. 11, before a special session of the Legislature. In his references to the speech, Mr. McGreevey did not appear inclined to stop laying the blame for the shortfall on the Republicans who controlled Trenton for a decade before Mr. McGreevey was sworn in this month. 
"Today, the results of the past administration are clearly evident," Mr. McGreevey said. "The bottom line is clear indeed, unequivocal. New Jersey confronts a $2.9 billion shortfall in this year, as well as an approximate $6 billion shortfall for the next fiscal year, a $12 billion increase in bonded debt and, unfortunately, a government rife with waste and mismanagement."
But as the Legislature prepares to wrangle with Mr. McGreevey over the spending cuts and possible tax increases to close the deficit before the fiscal year ends on June 30, Republicans today called on the governor to tone down the partisan nature of his criticisms.
Robert E. Littell, a Republican senator who is co-chairman of the Senate budget committee, said that the McGreevey administration's own figures about the drastically reduced tax revenues were evidence that the budget problems had been caused by the national recession and the effects of the Sept. 11 terrorist attack, rather than a spending spree by legislators. 
Mr. Littell also suggested that the governor was overstating the severity of the problem, and cited a report by the National Conference of State Legislatures, which shows that 44 states are now experiencing steep drops in revenues and that California and New York face bigger deficits.
"I think it's time for all of us to collectively scale back the rhetoric, roll up our sleeves and get to work," Senator Littell said. 
Mr. McGreevey's budget experts said that the report cited by Senator Littell also supported their two main arguments: that New Jersey's deficit is 12 percent of its total budget, the highest in the nation; and that the New Jersey Legislature increased spending by 8.4 percent for fiscal 2002, while the national average was 2.4 percent. 
Mr. McGreevey said a central point in his speech would be to put legislators on notice that he intends to "put the brakes on irresponsible spending."
"When other states recognized revenue was slipping and deficits growing, states took corrective action," he said. "Those states indeed took the necessary steps to curtail spending and other critical actions to avoid financial crisis. Unfortunately, that did not occur in New Jersey." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); RECESSION (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); TERRORISM (61%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV); KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



886 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Safety, Downtown Firms Are Scattering 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Morgan Stanley, the largest securities company in Manhattan, announced an agreement yesterday to buy the former Texaco headquarters in Westchester County as part of an effort to decentralize its operations.
 At the same time, Goldman Sachs & Company, a major corporate presence in Lower Manhattan, is planning to move its entire equity trading department to Jersey City, to the $1 billion complex it is building, which includes the tallest skyscraper in New Jersey. 
 And Marsh & McLennan, the insurance and financial services giant that was displaced by the destruction of the World Trade Center, is completing a deal to move several thousand employees to a new office building on the waterfront in Hoboken, according to real estate executives on both sides of the Hudson River.
These are only the latest developments in a corporate world in which dispersing workers became the order of the day after the attack on the World Trade Center in September. Never again do these global companies want to see themselves knocked out of business for days and weeks, or even hours, by a single cataclysmic event. For instance, Morgan Stanley said yesterday that its tentative purchase of the 107-acre Texaco parcel in Harrison, N.Y., was a way to address "business continuity planning requirements." 
This trend presents one of the greatest challenges in rebuilding Lower Manhattan, where more than 20 million square feet of office space was damaged or destroyed in the Sept. 11 attack.
The office vacancy rate has doubled downtown, leaving many analysts wondering which companies will move into the empty space, let alone any new towers that might be built.
M. Meyers Mermel, chief executives of Tenantwise.com, a real estate company, estimates that 23,000 jobs went to the suburbs from downtown after Sept. 11 and that another 144,000 jobs are in jeopardy in a second wave of departures.
"Goldman's decision is a significant setback because it affects the downtown core of financial services," Mr. Mermel said. "It's not so much the number of jobs that's significant, but the kind of jobs. Equity trading is the heart and soul of any investment bank."
Of course for a number of years, these companies have engaged in what one real estate developer called a "corporate diaspora" in which many companies dispatch various operations to the hinterlands. Most of these companies are not abandoning New York altogether.
Indeed, Marsh & McLennan, Goldman and Morgan Stanley will still have thousands of employees downtown and in Midtown. But the concentration of offices in an urban corporate campus that was all the rage a few years ago is out. Dispersal is in.
Companies are looking at Long Island City and other parts of Queens, as well as the suburbs. Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, a one-time World Trade Center tenant, is moving employees to Midtown and Brooklyn. American Express has moved employees to two sites in New Jersey, but plans to move back to some of its space at the World Financial Center.
Deutsche Bank is planning to build a backup operation at a waterfront complex owned by Mack-Cali Realty in Jersey City. And Instinet, the world's largest electronic trading network and a former trade center tenant, has already completed a deal to build its backup trading facility at Harborside in Jersey City.
In response, city and state officials have scrambled to assemble a treasure chest of tax breaks and other incentives to entice companies into remaining downtown, or to move there. They are also promoting less expensive locations in downtown Brooklyn and Long Island City as alternatives to New Jersey and Connecticut. But government officials and urban planners say that the downtown economy must continue to diversify.
"I don't think that anyone has disputed the fact that we have to do anything we can to ensure that Lower Manhattan remains the financial center of the city," said Daniel Doctoroff, deputy mayor for economic development. "But the Lower Manhattan of the future also has to be a 24-hour community filled not just with financial firms, but also with residences, arts, culture and other things. It's also incumbent on us to find alternative space in the five boroughs for corporations wanting to decentralize."
Jonathan Litt, senior real estate analyst for Salomon Smith Barney, said that companies were smart to move employees, data centers and technical offices to a variety of sites that are not all on the same power grid in the event that one is knocked out of service. But he questioned the decision by Goldman Sachs to move top jobs at the firm to New Jersey, saying many employees might leave because of commuting problems.
Goldman Sachs, whose headquarters is downtown, had a voracious appetite for real estate in the 1990's as it set about building a corporate campus in Lower Manhattan. But in 1999, the investment bank bought three development parcels at the Colgate site in Jersey City, and more recently, began building a 42-story tower there for a backup trading floor and a training center. Recently, however, the company surprised many analysts and city officials when it decided to move some of its moneymaking divisions as well to Jersey City from 1 New York Plaza, where its lease expires in 2004.
"We have decided to relocate all New York-based equities and equities-related employees to our new 30 Hudson complex in Jersey City," an internal memo circulating at Goldman announced last week.
Morgan Stanley was a major tenant at the World Trade Center and was building a third office tower at the northern end of Times Square. But after the September attack, the investment bank decided to sell the tower at Seventh Avenue and 50th Street to Lehman Brothers, a major tenant displaced from the World Financial Center. At the time, Morgan Stanley said it did not want its trading and backup facilities to all be within a single block in Midtown.
Yesterday the investment bank announced that it had reached a preliminary agreement to buy the Texaco headquarters in Harrison, N.Y., which includes a 750,000-square-foot office building. The company said that most of its 14,000 employees in New York City would probably remain there, but that about 2,000 workers would be moved to Harrison, where the company plans to set up a backup data center.
Marsh & McLennan was a major tenant of 1 World Trade Center. Like Lehman Brothers, the company has taken space in Midtown. But after scouting the New Jersey waterfront for a suitable location, Marsh is close to completing a deal to move about 2,000 employees to Hoboken.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Texaco's former headquarters, on 107 acres in Harrison, N.Y., will be used by Morgan Stanley as part of an effort to decentralize operations. (Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); TRENDS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); SECURITIES BROKERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); BUSINESS CONTINUITY (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); HIJACKING (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); CITIES (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); TERRORISM (70%); SUBURBS (63%) CORPORATIONS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; MISSING PERSONS; LABOR; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (60%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ;GOLDMAN SACHS & CO; MARSH & MCLENNAN COS; MORGAN STANLEY & CO 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (91%); MMC (NYSE) (57%); MHM (LSE) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (50%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: ;BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



887 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Police Vow Zero Tolerance for Violence at Economic Forum 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER 

 BODY:
The pledge from the New York Police Department yesterday was stern: protesters at the World Economic Forum later this week can expect a huge police presence, with zero tolerance for any violations of the law. It would be unwise to litter or cross against the lights, the police said, and wearing a mask or a hood in a group will be cause for immediate arrest.
 For the typical New Yorker, the security lockdown in Manhattan, particularly around the conference at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, will be reminiscent of the tense days after Sept. 11, with traffic checkpoints, bomb-sniffing dogs and vehicle searches. The police are discouraging people from wearing backpacks near the conference in Midtown and plan to use metal detectors for street searches. Drivers are being urged to use public transportation, and subway operators will bypass certain stations if violence erupts. 
 The department said it was issuing the warning to deter the kind of vandalism and violence that marred similar economic gatherings in recent years in cities like Seattle, Genoa and Quebec.
"This is America. If people want to come to New York to protest in a peaceful manner, we welcome and respect their right to do so," said Michael P. O'Looney, the department's deputy commissioner for public information. "But keep in mind that the citizens of this city have been through a lot in the last five months. We will not tolerate anyone breaking the law. If they do so, they will be dealt with swiftly and firmly."
From Thursday to Monday, about 3,000 leaders of corporations and governments as well as academic, religious and cultural figures will be at the meeting, discussing economics, politics and current events. The forum was moved from its traditional meeting spot in Davos, Switzerland, to New York City to show a solidarity with New Yorkers in the wake of the terrorist attack.
City officials hope it will prove to be a financial boon in troubled economic times. The participants, who are paying $25,000 a head for the privilege of hobnobbing with each other, are also expected to venture out for breakfasts, cocktail parties and visits to local museums or the ruins of the World Trade Center. 
Phalanxes of demonstrators are expected to shadow them at every turn -- not only mainstream student and union groups but more radical elements. There may also be groups of self-styled anarchists who, in recent similar gatherings, have resorted to breaking the windows of businesses owned by large corporations.
Most protesters who were interviewed said they were planning only nonviolent demonstrations, sit-ins and a series of vigils and educational workshops. In response to the police announcement yesterday, some predicted mass arrests while others said they still expected nothing but traditional peaceful forms of civil disobedience and street theater. 
"We are not the problem," said Larry Holmes, a spokesman for Act Now to Stop War and End Racism, which is sponsoring a protest demonstration on Saturday. "We are planning to demonstrate peacefully and we expect to be allowed to exercise our rights. The question must be put to the police: Are they going to engage in mass arrests of peaceful protesters for political reasons and not for legitimate security reasons? And everyone has to be satisfied that they are not."
The police said they planned to use about 3,800 officers a day working in steady 12-hour shifts. Another 700 officers will be ready in case something erupts.
Many of the officers will be working in Manhattan, particularly near the Waldorf-Astoria, on Park and Lexington Avenues from 49th to 50th Streets. But others will be positioned near the airports, certain sites in Brooklyn and Queens and at big commercial stores along Fifth Avenue, like the Gap and Starbucks, that have been targets at past events, one police official said.
There will be a host of street closings and limits on traffic, along with three vehicle checkpoints near the hotel, beginning at 5 a.m. Wednesday.
In outlining the department's tactics three days before the start of the annual gathering, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly indicated yesterday that there would be little tolerance for any unlawful demonstrations.
In a letter to business owners and others near the Waldorf-Astoria, Commissioner Kelly said that plans were in place to have subway operators bypass any station where danger is looming and take passengers to the next stop. Citing conditions in other cities, where protesters posed as regular diners in restaurants before causing disruptions, he wrote: "We will have ample uniformed police officers posed in the vicinity and plainclothed officers elsewhere to respond appropriately."
The police said they would invoke an 1845 law forbidding people in groups to wear masks or hoods in public. Joseph J. Esposito, the chief of department, said: "That is a law that is on the books. And, if three or more people are marching with masks on, they are violating the law and that will not be tolerated. We will arrest them."
In 1999, a three-judge appellate court ruled that the city could enforce the obscure law. That same day, the police arrested members of the Ku Klux Klan who were protesting in Manhattan. Later, however, a Manhattan Criminal Court judge ruled that the law does not apply to peaceful political rallies.
It remains unclear exactly how many demonstrations, whether approved or not approved by the city, will take place, and the police said yesterday that they were still finalizing their plans for permits. It is also unclear how many protesters will take part, though one police official said the authorities believed that the protesters were underestimating the expected turnout as a strategy to minimize the police response.
Last night, the police said they had issued permits for a demonstration by the Central Labor Council at 4:30 p.m. Thursday outside the Gap at 54th Street and Fifth Avenue, and by the Anti-Capitalist Convergence on Friday from 6 to 9 p.m., possibly in Union Square. There are tentative plans for a rally at the Fashion Institute of Technology, the police said.
A permit was also granted for a Saturday protest march beginning at 59th Street and Fifth Avenue, moving east to Lexington Avenue, then south to 53rd Street, where the CitiCorp headquarters is located, and then winding back to a stationary demonstration area south of the Waldorf-Astoria entrance, Mr. O'Looney said. 
Groups were also seeking permission for at least two additional stationary protests, one on Friday in Washington Square Park and one on Saturday at Park Avenue just north of 50th Street, the police said.
The area directly in front of the hotel will be tightly restricted from Wednesday to Monday, with no parking and no through traffic allowed, the police said.

GRAPHIC: Map of New York City highlights the vehicle checkpoints. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); POLICE FORCES (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); METAL DETECTORS (89%); RIOTS (78%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (78%); VEHICLE SEARCH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ARRESTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); DOGS (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (73%); CITIES (72%); VANDALISM (71%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); STREET ART (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); RELIGION (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%) WALDORF-ASTORIA HOTEL (NYC) 

PERSON: BAKER, AL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SWITZERLAND (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



888 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: 'Dead Broke' Dads' Child-Support Struggle 

BYLINE:  By BLAINE HARDEN 

DATELINE: DENVER, Jan. 27 

 BODY:
Every month, on order of a Colorado judge, Jason Stribling sinks deeper into debt. 
 Mr. Stribling is obligated to pay $899 a month in current and back child support for his 15-month-old son, Nasir. The only job he says he can find is a part-time one at a Denver recreation center that pays $600 a month. When he does the math, Mr. Stribling said, he feels as if he is drowning. 
 "I am, like, stunned," the 24- year-old father said. "Sometimes I get so mad at the mother of my son." 
His personal sinkhole of child-support arrears, which Mr. Stribling dug for himself by failing to support his son for nearly a year and by losing his job because of a citation for driving under the influence of alcohol, is more than $9,000 deep and accruing interest at 12 percent a year. While the specifics of his case are unique, his situation is not. Across the country, child support owed by poor fathers like Mr. Stribling has swollen to about $21 billion and is rising at a faster rate than for any other group of men.
The growing mountain of debt is similar to the arrears owed by absentee fathers who have more money and better jobs. It was created by men ignoring their responsibilities and, in many cases, hiding themselves and their income from child-support enforcement. But there is a fundamental difference, officials agree, between "deadbeat" and "dead broke" dads. Once caught, many poor absentee fathers simply cannot pay their monthly child-support orders, nor do they have a reasonable chance of paying their arrears.
After a decade of extraordinary success in establishing paternity, tracking down fathers who owe child support and using high-tech sleuthing methods to sniff out their money, states like Colorado, along with the federal government, have hit a wall in collecting it.
"Even with all our strong-arm tactics, there is a percentage of fathers that is dead broke," said Dan Welch, a senior administrator at Colorado's division of child-support enforcement. "We have come to realize that all of the enforcement tools in the world can't make somebody pay if they don't have the money."
The debts also have the unintended effect of pushing many poor fathers into the underground economy and away from their children, say child-support experts, including advocates for mothers owed child support.
Mr. Stribling is a volunteer in a small, federally supported program here that encourages poor fathers to negotiate with child support enforcement officials, rather than hide from them. The program helps them persuade judges to set child support orders at levels fathers can realistically pay, while forgiving some arrears and helping them re-establish regular contact with their children. If a father begins to avoid making payments again, he will become responsible for all his old child-support debts. 
A judge ordered Mr. Stribling last September to pay $899 a month, basing his order not on what Mr. Stribling was earning, but on his "earning potential," said Brenda Banks, a caseworker for the Colorado division of child-support enforcement.
The judge's ruling was understandable. Until August, Mr. Stribling had been earning $48,000 a year as a technician at Qwest Communications, even as he was evading child-support payments. He lost that job after his driver's license was suspended for the drunken-driving citation. In two court appearances last fall, Mr. Stribling failed to persuade the judge that his earning potential had fallen and that the only job he could find paid $7,200 a year.
As part of the program, Ms. Banks, the caseworker assigned to help fathers, has calculated that Mr. Stribling can afford to pay $350 a month. That is about 40 percent of what the judge ordered, but Ms. Banks said she believed she could help Mr. Stribling convince the judge that the revised amount was reasonable. While the mother of his child would receive lower payments, Ms. Banks said, at least she would be paid regularly.
In the past decade, child-support collections from the estimated 11 million fathers who do not live with their children have nearly doubled, to more than $18 billion a year. Most of that money comes from fathers who have stable jobs and can afford to pay.
Where the money does not come from is the 2.5 million poor noncustodial fathers in the United States. According to a study by the Urban Institute, nearly 30 percent of these men are in prison. Among the remainder, nearly half are unemployed. Those who do have jobs earn an average of $5,600 a year, well below the poverty line.
"You can't get blood from a turnip," said Elaine Sorensen, a labor economist at the Urban Institute and an expert on child support. "The bottom line is that for poor fathers these laws are just unrealistic."
Poor fathers are often asked to pay significantly more, as a percentage of their income, than middle- class fathers, according to the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation, a social policy research group that studied 5,500 low-income fathers in seven cities in the 1990's. Nearly two-thirds of the poor fathers tracked by the study had child support orders that demanded more than half of their income.
That was Mr. Stribling's experience.
"I could barely live off the $600 I was making," he said of his monthly salary. "Then they took 55 percent of it." (The maximum that child support enforcement can take under federal laws is 65 percent of a person's salary.)
About the same time that family researchers and policy makers concluded that child-support laws were largely ineffective when it came to poor fathers, a flood of new research was released that emphasized the importance of fathers in children's healthy emotional development. 
As a result, there seems to be growing bipartisan consensus to reconsider the way child-support payments are collected from poor fathers.
"This is the new frontier of child-support enforcement," said Wade Horn, assistant secretary for children and families in the Department of Health and Human Services. "It means reaching out to those men who want to do the right thing, who want to pay child support, but who need a little help getting there."
To that end, President Bush, in the budget he sends to Congress next week, will propose a change in how child-support payments from poor fathers are handled, said a senior administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Researchers have known for years that a major disincentive in the willingness of poor fathers to pay child support is where their money goes. Most of that money is now kept by states, as repayment for welfare benefits paid to an absent father's children.
The president's budget will include a provision to send all of the father's payment directly to his family. It will also propose spending up to $286 million in federal money over five years to reimburse states for welfare benefits they have paid to the children of poor fathers.
Even groups that demand tougher enforcement of child-support orders agree that, when it comes to poor fathers, state and federal laws penalize and isolate men, usually without helping mothers or children.
"What the current system does is accumulate this unrealistic debt that will cause a certain number of poor fathers to just hide," said Geraldine Jensen, president of the Association for Children for Enforcement Support, an organization of 50,000 parents whose children are owed support. 
Efforts at reform, however, are still confined to small demonstration programs like the one here in Denver. It is part of a three-year test program under way in 10 cities, financed with federal and Ford Foundation money.
Mr. Stribling will soon finish an eight-week course that he says has given him a way to gain control over his life, while getting along with the mother of his son. Efforts to reach her were not successful because Mr. Stribling would not provide her name.
There is, however, substantial evidence that many abandoned mothers benefit when the father of their children participates in programs like the one here. A study by the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation found that participation increased the dollar amount of child support actually paid by poor fathers. It also found that these programs uncovered large sums that fathers had been hiding.
That is not to say that all poor fathers will be reached. Counselors say some of the poorest fathers lead lives complicated by crime, drugs or alcohol.
Mr. Stribling does not have these complications. An Army veteran with a high school diploma, he says he plans to use the G.I. Bill to attend night school to get a degree in nursing.
In recent weeks, he has been allowed to spend more time with Nasir.
"I can look him in his face and see me," Mr. Stribling said. "He's so funny. It's the little things he does. He's the best person in my life."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jason Stribling was ordered in September to pay $899 in monthly child support for his son, Nasir. His income from a part-time job was $600. (Steve Peterson for The New York Times) Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: Child Support Increases, but Huge Debt Remains "The establishment of paternity -- the legal connection between a father and child -- has increased . . .Graph tracks paternities established since 1995. ... which, in part, has resulted in the collection of more child support . . . Graph tracks child support collected since 1995. . . . but it has also created a mountain of payments, a quarter of which is owed by poor fathers, that cannot be collected.Graph tracks cumulative arrears since 1995. (Source: Department of Health and Human Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (94%); FAMILY LAW (89%); LEGAL PATERNITY (89%); PARENTS (75%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (73%); LEGISLATION (67%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (60%) CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US) 

PERSON: HARDEN, BLAINE; STRIBLING, JASON 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (91%) COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



889 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Act on Clean Elections Law, Court Orders Massachusetts 

BYLINE:  By PAM BELLUCK 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
The race for governor of Massachusetts was already getting interesting. 
 Acting Gov. Jane M. Swift, a Republican, is trying to keep the job, but she faces obstacles, including a rebellion within her party over her choice for lieutenant governor. On the Democratic side, there are six candidates: the state treasurer, secretary of state and state Senate president, a former state senator, a former Democratic National Committee chairman and a former United States secretary of labor. 
 Now, the state's highest court has thrown everything into disarray. 
On Friday, the Supreme Judicial Court brought back a law long believed dead: the Massachusetts Clean Elections Law, which allows statewide candidates who forgo most private donations to campaign with public money. The court said the law, approved by voters four years ago but never fully financed by the Legislature, would either have to be put in effect or repealed. 
The court said it would consider ways to enact the law, including appropriating the money or even suspending state elections until the Legislature either finances the law or repeals it. As a result, the Legislature is under considerable pressure to release the $23 million set aside so far and appropriate more. 
Suddenly, candidates for governor struggling with small campaign war chests, like Secretary of State William Francis Galvin, a Democrat, are brightening at the prospect of getting millions in taxpayer money. Candidates like Jill Stein of the Green Party might find themselves able to compete, and candidates who have already raised a lot of money, like Thomas F. Birmingham, the State Senate president and the Democratic front-runner, must choose whether to keep their contributions or relinquish them to play by election rules that would leave them poorer but perhaps more popular. 
"I think there's going to be tremendous pressure on all these candidates," said Tobe Berkovitz, a professor of communications at Boston University. "They're all going to be held accountable for where did that money come from."
Warren Tolman, a former Democratic state senator, is one candidate for governor who is thrilled. From the beginning, Mr. Tolman has been abiding by the as-yet-unimplemented law, which says that to qualify for public money, candidates for governor must limit contributions to $100 each for a total of no more than $450,000.
"I was playing with one hand behind my back hoping that the will of the people would be implemented," said Mr. Tolman, who was a plaintiff in the court case and stands to collect $800,000 if the law is financed. "If it wasn't, then I would have been in a very difficult position."
Other candidates who support the Clean Elections Law will not campaign under it, including Steve Grossman, a businessman and former national Democratic Party chairman who has raised a sizable fund. 
Colleen McGee, Mr. Grossman's campaign director, said that because he had never run for office before "we're going to have to spend more monies" to introduce him to voters. 
State Treasurer Shannon P. O'Brien, is caught in the middle. Ms. O'Brien, originally a "clean-elections" candidate, resorted to traditional fund-raising and is not sure what she will do now. Her campaign manager, Dwight Robson, said that if it took more than a few weeks to bring the law to life, Ms. O'Brien would have spent too much money to qualify for clean-elections funds. 
Robert B. Reich, the former secretary of labor, said he would be a "clean elections candidate," although it would mean returning nearly $150,000 in contributions and giving up the fund-raising power that comes from being nationally known. 
"It may put me at a disadvantage," Mr. Reich said, "but I think that campaign finance reform is critically important." 
The law was approved by two-thirds of voters in 1998, and the Legislature must set aside an estimated $40 million to $80 million to finance the elections. But lawmakers resisted releasing the money, prompting supporters to go to court. 
Massachusetts is one of only four states with a clean-elections law; Arizona, Maine and Vermont are the others. But Massachusetts' situation is being closely watched as other states, including Illinois and North Carolina, consider similar laws.
The Legislature could repeal the law, and many legislators, including the house speaker, Thomas M. Finneran, favor that course, saying taxpayer money is needed more for other things, especially in a recession when the state has a $1.6 billion budget shortfall for 2003. 
Representative Joseph F. Wagner, a Democrat who is chairman of the election law committee, said: "I put it in the category of luxury, and when compared with all other important policy initiatives this takes a back seat. Using public money to buy bumper stickers and pay political consultants is probably not high on the list of what we should be doing." 
But against a backdrop of a popular vote, a court ruling and the campaign contribution questions surrounding the Enron collapse, legislators may be compelled to finance the law. Governor Swift opposes public financing of elections, but she will veto any measure repealing the clean-elections law because she believes in following the will of the voters, said a spokesman, Jim Borghesani. 
With so many pressures in the law's favor, "it makes it very hard for the representatives and senators to kill this thing," Professor Berkovitz said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ELECTION LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) FINANCES; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM; SWIFT, JANE M (ACTING GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) MASSACHUSETTS

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



890 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Cotton Jobs Gone, Black Migrants' Town Limps On 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: RANDOLPH, Ariz., Jan. 25 

 BODY:
The old folks say this used to be quite a place, with small businesses, a post office, a little night life and enough cotton in the fields to give people economic stability and hope for the future.
 Now? The stores are gone. So is the post office. When mechanized cotton pickers took over in the 1950's, people began disappearing, and so did Randolph. Once, more than 500 lived here. Today, the population is a couple of hundred, if that, all living in tattered houses on dusty streets. 
 To many who remain, it is bad enough their once lively town 50 miles southeast of Phoenix may be seeing its final days, one of the few places in the West where the descendants of black migrant workers remain. But it is the way the town is fading away that angers the current residents. 
Unlike other communities where blacks settled in the early decades of the 20th century, Randolph is finding its decline hastened in ways beyond the usual story of grown children moving away for better jobs and older residents dying off. Slowly, heavy industries have moved into the area, taking advantage of cheap land and labor and -- people in Randolph say -- the town's lack of political muscle to keep them away.
During the Dust Bowl years, this part of Arizona had several migrant communities, places like Desert Beach and Southside Gin, largely because of cotton. As whites from Arkansas, Oklahoma and Texas traveled west along Route 66 looking for work, blacks from the same states made their way along a parallel course, Route 60, ending up in tiny, unincorporated towns like Randolph that were near the fields and had too few white families to keep them out.
Dr. George Junne, an expert on black migration who is a professor at the University of Northern Colorado in Greeley, Colo., said Randolph is one of no more than 30 communities in the West that were populated by black migrant workers and are still identifiable through descendants or buildings.
To many blacks who settled here -- separated by Highway 87 from the town's white families -- Randolph became the American dream.
"It was a beautiful little place," said Melvin Moore, 64, a retired county deputy sheriff, whose family arrived from Hope, Ark., in the 1940's. "There weren't many houses. There was a lot of land. We stayed and made a home."
Residents say the big industries are driving more people away faster, ending any last chance for Randolph to attract new families and small businesses or to hold onto its historical niche. In addition, the state is debating whether to close a leading area employer, the Arizona Training Program, a home for the mentally and physically disabled that opened 50 years ago.
"It's very sad to see it happen," said Jeff Jordan, a housing contractor and descendant of another family from Hope who has led the fight to keep Randolph residential.
Mr. Jordan and other residents filed a complaint with the Environmental Protection Agency in 1999 over plans by an Indianapolis company, Heritage Environmental Services, to expand a site where industrial waste is treated, some of it toxic. An investigation has begun, but that has not erased the resignation in the voice of Mr. Jordan, who grew up and raised a family here. 
Now, officials in Coolidge, a town of 7,000 about 5 miles north of here, are discussing plans to annex Randolph and develop an industrial park to serve both.
"I'm beat up," Mr. Jordan said of the battle to save Randolph's identity. "We've been fighting this stuff going on 20 years. But bottom line, it's just a matter of time before Randolph goes away." 
Mike Nicholson, the manager of the Heritage treatment site, said the fears that life might grow worse in Randolph were baseless. 
"It's a nimby thing," he said, referring to "not in my backyard" sentiment. "They're afraid we're going to build an incinerator or a landfill. I'm not saying we won't 10 years down the road. But we have no plans for that right now."
Mr. Nicholson said Heritage had been a good neighbor, setting up a $500 annual scholarship for a Coolidge High School senior -- Randolph has no schools -- rebuilding the only public park in Randolph and complying with state environmental regulations.
But Mr. Jordan and his neighbors say that Heritage's plan to expand blots out any civic-minded deeds. 
As the years pass, there seems to be less to fight over. The east side of Randolph has shrunk to a small grid of streets, some named for heroes -- Dr. King, Kennedy and Malcolm X. Black residents now share the town with a small but growing number of migrant workers from Mexico and the few white families who live across the highway.
On both sides of the road, most of the houses are small and old, made of wood or cinderblock, facing yards filled more with carcasses of old cars than grass. All the houses need repair and paint, but the Mexicans seem to have the worst of it, living in shanties made of odd pieces of wood.
For all the decay, black residents still say Randolph is a nice place to live. Wanda Reece, 50, whose parents migrated in the 1940's from Arkansas and Tennessee to pick cotton, said she moved to Los Angeles in 1968 only to return three years later. Her aunt, Fannie Reece, who came here from Hugo, Okla., is Randolph's oldest citizen, at 84.
"It's quiet and peaceful here, not like the city where there's lots of trouble," said Wanda Reece, who chopped cotton as a girl and has worked at the Training Program for the last 26 years. 
But in a decade or so, Mr. Jordan said, the history will be gone along with the residents. 
"I know it's going to end," he said. "Some people are going to stay until they die. Others are going to pick up and go. I'd like to save it. But I know I can't."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Randolph, Ariz., has seen better days. Once bustling with black cotton pickers, the town is slowly dying, with houses decaying, businesses gone and residents moving away. Melvin Moore, whose family moved to Randolph in the 1940's, said that back then, "it was a beautiful little place." (Photographs by Erik Guzowski for The New York Times) Map of Arizona highlights Randolph: Randolph, Ariz., residents feel threatened by heavy industry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIGRANT WORKERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); FARM LABOR (78%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (70%); MENTAL RETARDATION FACILITIES (61%); SHERIFFS (60%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) BLACKS 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) RANDOLPH (ARIZ)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



891 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: SOCCER: NOTEBOOK; 
Top Argentine Clubs Face Budget Troubles

BYLINE:  By JACK BELL 

 BODY:
Perhaps the only thing worse than the condition of the Argentine economy is the financial state of Argentina's soccer clubs. The country's top 20 clubs are estimated to be more than $200 million in debt, with most of the money being owed to players.
 The South American power, which has won two World Cup titles (1978 and 1986) and has been a global exporter of talent since the days of ALFREDO DI STEFANO in the 1950's and DIEGO MARADONA more recently, is certain to experience the ongoing exodus of promising players developed in the clubs' extensive youth academies. Argentina may not export much except its soccer players. 
 For example, ANDRES D'ALLESANDRO, a young midfielder at River Plate in Buenos Aires, will probably be sold to a European club. Last season's goal-scoring sensation, JAVIER SAVIOLA, was sold by River to Barcelona of Spain. The year before it was MARTIN PALERMO going from Boca Juniors to Villareal in Spain.
 Last week, the new Argentine president, EDUARDO DUHALDE, met with club representatives and the president of the Argentine soccer federation in an attempt to help the clubs get out of their financial straits. After the meeting, he announced a 50 percent cut in the price of general admission tickets to 10 pesos (about $7). A proposal has also been floated for an independent commission to monitor clubs' budgets and expenses.
 "I understand that football is a fundamental economic and social activity for this country," Duhalde said."But the clubs are how they are because nobody is controlling them."
 The clubs make the majority of their money from a lucrative domestic television contract. Then there are the transfer fees, estimated at more than $700 million over the past two years, that are largely unaccounted for. The clubs owe the government nearly $100 million in back taxes.
 The first part of the Argentine season, the Apertura (or opening six-month tournament, which was won by Racing), was delayed in late December because of civil unrest in reaction to the country's financial problems. The clubs are now involved in summer tournaments before the start of the Clausura (the second six-month season), which is scheduled for Feb. 8.
 JULIO GRONDONA, the president of the Argentine Football Association, turned aside suggestions that the start of the Clausura should be delayed until the economy settles down.
 "Football must go ahead," Grondona said. "It is the Viagra of Argentines."

UNITED STATES
 CLINT MATHIS can always find happiness on the soccer field. After a seven-month absence because of a knee injury, Mathis was smiling again Sunday when he came on as a second-half substitute for BRIAN MCBRIDE (who had scored three times in the game) as the United States advanced to the Concacaf Gold Cup semifinals against Canada with a 4-0 victory over El Salvador.
 The United States is scheduled to play Canada on Wednesday night in Pasadena, Calif. The United States has won eight straight matches against Canada, including back-to-back victories that put the United States into the 1998 World Cup. The Gold Cup final will be played on Sunday at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena.
 "It feels good," Mathis said after playing 37 minutes."I think it was a good test. It helps already being up three, which takes a bit of the pressure off. I hope I can continue to push forward and get some more of these games in and continue to get fit."
 Mathis has been sidelined since last June 5, when he tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee during a training session with the national team. 
 After the Gold Cup, Mathis will rejoin the MetroStars and will be with the team when it leaves Feb. 6 for two weeks of training at the IMG Academy in Bradenton, Fla.

METROSTARS
 The MetroStars' schedule is out, and like last season, the Meadowlands minnows will play 8 of their 14 home games at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., before July.
 "This is reason No. 10 to build our own stadium,"General Manager NICK SAKIEWICZ said, referring to the club's plan to construct a soccer-only park in Harrison, N.J. "It's the same situation as last year; the schedule is front-loaded. It is not something that we or the league are happy about, but the schedule is driven by the Sports Authority."

POWER
 The Power is scheduled to open its second Women's United Soccer Association season with two games on the road (April 13 at Washington and April 20 at San Diego) before returning for the home opener on Saturday, April 27 against Philadelphia. The Power will again be playing home games at the Mitchel Athletic Complex in Uniondale, N.Y.
 The club plans to play 7 of its 11 home games on Saturdays (all but two starting at 7 p.m.), 2 on Sundays and 2 on Wednesdays. JACK BELL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (94%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%) SOCCER 

PERSON: BELL, JACK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (56%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%) ARGENTINA (96%); SPAIN (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



892 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Chip Makers In Japan See Only Trouble 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
Chip makers in other countries, like South Korea, Germany and even the United States, have been saying the skies for their gloomy industry are brightening. But the Japanese see only a false dawn.
 Toshiba and Fujitsu are scheduled to announce results on Tuesday for the third fiscal quarter, which ended Dec. 31, and both are expected to be severely downbeat. Toshiba, especially, will be watched, because it is No. 2 in the world semiconductor industry and is expected to lower its outlook sharply for the coming year. Analysts predicted that the downbeat news will set off a wave of lowered forecasts from rivals over the next few weeks. 
 Some of Toshiba's numbers found their way into the Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's leading business newspaper, a day early. Today, the paper reported that Toshiba now expected to post an operating loss of 130 billion yen ($965 million) for the fiscal year ending March 31, 18 percent worse than the loss it had forecast at the end of October.
Toshiba spokesmen said they would not comment on the news report today, saying the company would wait to meet with analysts and reporters on Tuesday; the absence of a denial was taken here as tacit confirmation of the news report.
The Japanese manufacturers that once dominated the semiconductor industry have lost ground in recent years to more efficient producers in South Korea, like Hynix Semiconductor and Samsung Electronics, the world memory-chip leader, as well as Micron Technologies in the United States. Those companies have reported with some celebration a recent upturn in long-depressed prices for commodity memory chips known as DRAM's and have spoken hopefully of an imminent return to growth and profitability.
But a December surge in consumer spending on electronics seems to have done the Japanese producers little good. Shipments of computers, mobile phones and other electronics are expected to remain soft at least into midyear, analysts said, and any overall recovery in chip prices is likely to be tepid at best.
"The market for chips and computers has not improved, to say the least," said Yoshihiro Shimada, an analyst at ING Barings in Tokyo. "I would expect most other chip makers to revise down their forecasts in the coming 90 days."
Facing mounting losses on commodity chips, Toshiba, NEC, Hitachi and other Japanese companies are taking steps to exit that end of the market and concentrate on made-to-order chips that command higher profit margins, but also require high investment and offer fewer economies of scale. Last month, Toshiba announced a deal to sell its DRAM plant in the United States to Micron and to abandon a planned alliance with Infineon of Germany.
Toshiba is also attacking costs, with plans to eliminate about 10 percent of its work force, or some 19,000 jobs. To pay for that and other steps, Toshiba will probably take a 180 billion yen ($1.3 billion) charge, half again as much as initially expected, analysts and news reports here said.
Analysts also say Toshiba and its rivals will be ratcheting back capital investment in semiconductor operations by an average of 30 percent in the next fiscal year, which begins April 1.
"If Toshiba continues to make the same mistake of over-investing in semiconductors during the next five years, they'll go bankrupt," said Satoru Oyama, who follows Japan's chip makers for Lehman Brothers.
Toshiba also faces intense cost pressure on the consumer hard goods side of its business, where it must steadily cut prices on its televisions, refrigerators and other appliances to compete with cheaper imports from China, South Korea and Europe. By refusing to shed these operations, analysts said, the company has spread its resources too thin. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS (91%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MEMORY CHIPS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (94%); SK HYNIX INC (90%); FUJITSU LTD (58%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: TOSHIBA CORP; FUJITSU LTD 

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (94%); 6502 (TSE) (94%); HY9H (FRA) (90%); 000660 (KSE) (90%); FUJ (LSE) (58%); 6702 (TSE) (58%); SMSN (LSE) (54%); 005930 (KSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (90%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (90%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (90%) JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



893 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Fall 15% at an Arizona Utility 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
The Pinnacle West Capital Corporation, the owner of Arizona's biggest electric utility, said fourth-quarter net income fell 15 percent because of expenses from the collapse of the Enron Corporation. 
 Net income declined to $35.8 million, or 42 cents a share, from net income of $42.3 million, or 50 cents, a year earlier, the company said. 
Revenue declined 11 percent, to $744.7 million from $838.2 million. 
 Profit this year may fall from $3.85 a share last year because the recession and lower power prices will probably reduce sales, the chief executive, William Post, said in a conference call with analysts and investors. 
In the latest quarter, Pinnacle West lost $13 million, or 15 cents a share, on canceled contracts with Enron, and for other costs related to Enron's bankruptcy filing, a spokesman, Alan Bunnell, said. 
Excluding those costs, the company would have earned $48.8 million, or 57 cents a share. It was expected to earn 60 cents by analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call. 
The company's Arizona Public Service utility sells power to 857,000 customers in 11 of the state's 15 counties.
It sells power to other utilities in the Southwest through a stake in the Palo Verde, Ariz., nuclear station. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); EXECUTIVES (55%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORP (94%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (93%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORP 

TICKER: PNW (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (94%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (94%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (94%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (93%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: WILLIAM J POST (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



894 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Dow and Nasdaq Register Slight Gains, but S.& P. Dips

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
A burst of last-minute bargain hunting gave the stock market a modest gain yesterday, but lingering doubts about the timing of a business recovery limited a broader rally.
 Analysts said the market was waiting for the two-day meeting of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee, which begins today. Although the committee is not expected to reduce interest rates, traders want to see what predictions the Fed makes about an economic turnaround. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 25.67 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 9,865.75, recovering from a drop of as much as 41 points. 
The broader market was mixed. The technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index increased 6.21 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,943.91, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.22 point, to 1,133.06.
Prices reversed direction several times during the session, continuing the market's meandering trend that has been in place for much of January. A string of murky corporate forecasts have given investors little sense of when business will improve, and therefore little reason to buy.
"We've had two down years on the market, so people really wanted to see the market turn around this month, but that just isn't happening yet because the news isn't strong enough," said Matt Brown, head of equity management at Wilmington Trust. 
After American Express reported that its fourth-quarter profit fell 56 percent, its shares lost 70 cents, to $36.29. 
But investors bid General Motors up $1.86, or 3.8 percent, to $50.34, after Morgan Stanley upgraded General Motors to outperform from neutral.
Texas Instruments, which was expected to report earnings later in the day, was up 95 cents, or 3.5 percent, at $28.40. Shares of the computer chip maker rose another $1.60 in after-hours trading in response to the posting of a smaller fourth-quarter loss than expected. It also predictedthat it would break even in the current quarter because semiconductor sales are growing after a long slump.
The once-highflying telecommunications network builder Global Crossing Ltd. filed for bankruptcy protection yesterday. The New York Stock Exchange immediately halted trading in the shares of the Bermuda-based company, which spent billions building a worldwide fiber optic network only to see demand for bandwidth wither.
At Friday's closing price of 51 cents, shares in the company had dropped below the Big Board listing standard, with the average closing price below $1 for 30 consecutive trading days. --------------------

Treasuries Unchanged
(By Reuters)
 Treasury bond prices were mostly unchanged yesterday as investors refrained from bold moves ahead of the Federal Reserve policy meeting at which officials are expected to keep interest rates steady.
Market players also did not want to make significant bets on government securities as they braced for a number of economic reports later in the week and an announcement of the Treasury's quarterly debt sales tomorrow that is likely to put pressure on the longer end of the market.
This week will be one of the most active weeks of the year in terms of major economic data, with the release of January consumer confidence and December durable goods today.
After that there will be highly anticipated economic indicators that will signal the strength of the economy, with the release of fourth-quarter gross domestic product tomorrow and the release of January employment data on Friday.
The price of the benchmark 10-year note was unchanged at 99 15/32. Its yield remained 5.07 percent.
The 30-year bond fell 1/32, to a price of 98 22/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from price, rose to 5.47 percent from 5.46 percent on Friday.
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice99.56699.075High Rate1.7151.830Investment Rate1.7481.872Low Rate1.66%1.72%Median Rate1.69%1.79%Total applied for$35,473,380$34,588,206Accepted$20,010,388$19,131,976Noncompetitive$1,569,353$1,311,055

Both issues are dated Jan. 31. The three-month bills mature on May 2, and the six-month bills mature on Aug. 2.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Graph "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks high rate at weekly auction from October 2001-January 2002. (Source: The Bond Buyer) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TRENDS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); COMPUTER CHIPS (63%); MICROPROCESSORS (62%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (62%); FIBER OPTICS (60%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: LEVEL 3 COMMUNICATIONS INC (63%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: LVLT (NYSE) (63%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (54%); MS (NYSE) (53%); TXN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (63%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (63%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (63%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (63%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); BERMUDA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



895 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Rejects Bid to Double Foreign Aid To Poor Lands 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
The Bush administration has rejected an international proposal to double foreign aid in the wake of the war in Afghanistan, contending that poor countries should make better use of the assistance they now receive, diplomats said today. 
 The United States insisted at a weekend meeting in New York on global development that specific targets for increasing foreign aid be deleted from a declaration on fighting poverty. At one point during the heated negotiations the United States threatened to cancel plans to have President Bush attend a conference in March, scheduled for Monterrey, Mexico, about how to help poor countries, diplomats said. 
 The declaration released today, intended to be the main communique for the Monterrey meeting, includes no mention of a campaign over several months by European nations, the United Nations and the World Bank to persuade wealthy nations to increase their aid by $50 billion annually, double the current level. Instead, it calls on rich countries to make "concerted efforts" to increase aid. 
The veto of the initiative reflects concerns by the Bush administration that in recent decades, tens of billions of dollars in aid for developing countries had produced disappointing results. 
Poor nations should do more to adopt sound economic policies and reduce corruption, while donors should focus on more effective aid projects before committing to increased aid, administration officials contend.
Though administration officials declined to discuss their negotiating position, they said Mr. Bush has focused for months on improving, rather than increasing, foreign aid. "We were pleased with the way the communique turned out," one White House official said today. The official added that an announcement of Mr. Bush's plans to attend the Monterrey meeting could come on Tuesday.
The American foreign aid budget, at about $10 billion, has not been increased for a decade. As a percentage of the overall economy it is at its lowest level since World War II. But while the administration has committed itself to big increases in defense spending to fight terrorism and protect Americans, it has so far rejected proposals to increase aid.
The United States pledged last week to devote $300 million to help rebuild Afghanistan over the next five years, and has committed hundreds of millions of dollars to reward Pakistan for its help in battling terrorism. But some development experts say they fear that those funds will reduce American contributions to other poverty programs, like those to fight AIDS and enroll children in schools.
The recession, the tax cut and proposed infusion of money to buy weapons also has left the administration little fiscal leeway to take a leadership role in development.
Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, and Gordon Brown, Britain's chancellor of the exchequer, had sought to persuade wealthy nations that the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks highlighted an urgent need to reverse a general decline in foreign aid. Mr. Brown called for a second Marshall Plan, modeled on American assistance to Europe after World War II, to create "a new relationship between developed and developing countries."
The Monterrey meeting was called to find new ways of helping poor countries reduce poverty, cut infant mortality and expand access to education. Some development experts also hoped that wealthy nations would pledge to adopt a longstanding United Nations goal of transferring 0.7 percent of their total economic output to poor countries.
Only a handful of countries, including Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden, spend that much on aid, though most European nations have promised to do so. The United States would have to devote seven times as much money to foreign aid to reach the target, but it rejected Mr. Brown's compromise that aid be doubled as an interim step.
Still, some participants hailed the declaration to be adopted in Monterrey as a breakthrough. They said the 14-page document commits poor nations to overhaul the way they manage their economies so they can attract more private investment and use aid more effectively. It also elicits a promise from wealthy nations to open markets wider to exports from developing countries like basic manufactured goods and farm products.
Shamshad Ahmad, a Pakistani diplomat who served a co-chairman of the preparatory conference, said today that he considered it a significant achievement that rich and poor nations and leading lending agencies had agreed on important principles for fighting poverty.
"I don't think it is important for us now to discuss what position was taken by which country. What is important is that we have a consensus document," Mr. Ahmad said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); TERRORISM (87%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); RECESSION (76%); VETO (75%); TAX LAW (73%); BUDGETS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); AIDS & HIV (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) UNITED NATIONS; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); GORDON BROWN (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); PAKISTAN (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



896 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Mayor, in Albany, Says State Budget Shortchanges the City's Schools 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg testified for the first time before the State Legislature here today, suggesting politely but firmly that the budget proposed last week by his friend and ally Gov. George E. Pataki does not offer enough aid to New York City as the city struggles to close a $4 billion budget deficit.
 Mr. Bloomberg took pains to offer plenty of praise for Governor Pataki, a fellow Republican who is likely to seek a third term next year, but he went further than he has gone yet in his month-old mayoralty in questioning some of the governor's proposals. 
 The mayor complained that Mr. Pataki's budget proposal would cut education aid to the city, suggested that the governor's economic development plan should be changed so that it included the city, and said that a state cellphone tax disproportionately affected city residents but yielded no revenue for the city.
The mayor went even further in written testimony, saying that actions taken by the state in the last few years had placed a $1 billion financial burden on New York City and reduced the city's share of state assistance to local governments to 39 percent from 47 percent. 
"The recent state actions have contributed in part to the city's budget gaps that we face today," Mr. Bloomberg said in testimony he submitted to the Legislature.
"I didn't criticize," Mr. Bloomberg said afterward. "What I did is, I pointed out that sometimes we need things. We've got to make our case and hopefully convince the Legislature and the governor to help New York City as much as they possibly can with the limited resources that they have."
Mr. Bloomberg's predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, had a rocky relationship with Mr. Pataki, and Mr. Bloomberg has taken some pains since his election to mend fences between City Hall and the State Capitol. He is even holding a fund-raiser for Mr. Pataki at his Upper East Side town house, featuring President Bush as the main attraction.
So his criticisms of state actions and calls for more state aid were given delicate voice, and sandwiched between praise for the governor's decision to restore aid to the city's shelters, support environmental programs and stave off subway fare increases.
A meeting that Mr. Bloomberg was supposed to hold here today with Mr. Pataki was canceled after Mr. Pataki came down with strep throat, aides to the governor said. 
"We look forward to working with Mayor Bloomberg and the Legislature in a nonpartisan way to help New York City and the entire state overcome the tremendous challenges we face," said Joe Conway, a spokesman for the governor.
The mayor continued to press for what he has said is his main priority in Albany: legislation that would give him control over the Board of Education. The Legislature passed legislation today to postpone community school board elections, an opportunity, some said, to discuss broader changes in the governing of schools. 
Mr. Bloomberg saved his strongest words about the governor's budget proposal for the cuts he said it would deliver to city schools. He said that total education aid to New York City was cut by $15 million, and that aid to pay for specially earmarked programs, including support for teachers, would go down by $50 million.
"By all accounts the city's fair share of education aid is dropping under this proposal," he said.
He continued to cast doubt on the governor's plan to authorize a bond sale to raise $204 million in education aid that the city says it is owed for past years. The governor's aides had said that the city could use the money in any way it wanted, and the union representing city teachers had expressed hopes it could be used to pay for a raise for teachers.
But Mr. Bloomberg said the money was reimbursement for funds the city had already spent. Mark Page, the director of the city's Office of Management and Budget, testified that standard accounting practices would prevent the city from using the money to pay for a new, current operating expense like salaries.
Aides to Mr. Pataki said that under his budget, the proportion of education aid that the city would receive would exceed the proportion of the state's students that it educates.
Mr. Bloomberg also did not make a push for the reinstatement of the commuter tax, which was repealed in 1999, costing the city $360 million to $500 million a year, saying that he did not believe it would be reinstated in an election year. The new City Council speaker, Gifford Miller, called on the Legislature to reimpose the tax when he testified after the mayor.
The mayor asserted that finding areas in which to make significant cutbacks was difficult, given that about $14 billion of the city's nearly $40 billion budget involved spendingnot mandated by state and federal law or the courts.
"And if you think about it in those terms, you realize just how daunting the task is," Mr. Bloomberg said. 
On the cellphone tax, Governor Pataki has proposed giving local governments the ability to impose a 30-cent tax on monthly cellphone bills on top of the 70-cent tax that the state currently imposes. 
But Mr. Bloomberg said that he would consider the proposal only if the state agreed to use some of the money that it currently collects from the cellphone tax on city services. He noted that while about half of the cellphones in the state are registered to city residents, the cellphone tax pays for the state police and for enhanced 911 service outside the city.
After testifying, Mr. Bloomberg continued to lobby for the city, meeting with Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno. He also paid a visit to the Black, Puerto Rican and Hispanic Legislative Caucus, something that Mr. Giuliani never did. 
"It spoke volumes," said Assemblyman Keith L. Wright, a Manhattan Democrat who attended the meeting.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was greeted by Assemblywoman Catherine T. Nolan of Queens before testifying in Albany. The other legislators, from right, were Assemblymen Robert A. Straniere of Staten Island and Ivan C. Lafayette of Queens and Senator Ronald B. Stafford of Plattsburgh. (David Jennings for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); CITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (59%) PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R; COOPER, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



897 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Bush Defends His Refusal To Reveal Enron Contacts
President Bush defended his refusal to turn over information to Congress about contacts between Enron and the administration's energy task force, saying the request was "an encroachment on the executive branch's ability to conduct business."
 The president's comments makes a constitutional showdown all but inevitable between the White House and the General Accounting Office, an investigative agency of Congress. Page A1. 

Global Crossing Files for Bankruptcy
Global Crossing, which spent five years and $15 billion to build a worldwide network of high-speed Internet and telephone lines, filed for bankruptcy protection, unable to find enough customers to make its network profitable. It has $22.4 billion of assets and $12.4 billion of debt, making its filing the largest by a telecommunications company. A1.

Top Level Shake-up at Conde Nast
In the first top-level shake-up of the year at a major magazine company, Peter King Hunsinger, the most senior marketing executive at Conde Nast Publications, is leaving. He will be succeeded by Richard D. Beckman, vice president and publisher of Vogue magazine, left. Thomas A. Florio, vice president and publisher at GQ since 1999, will succeed Mr. Beckman. For now, the GQ position is vacant, but some speculate the post may go to Ronald A. Galotti, former publisher of Vogue. C8.

Jenny Craig Is Sold for $115 Million
A group of investors led by ACI Capital Company and DB Capital Partners, an investment wing of Deutsche Bank, announced it would buy the weight-loss chain Jenny Craig, paying $115 million, or $5.30 for each share of Jenny Craig, a 68 premium over its trading price last Friday and significantly more than the stock has been worth in the last two years. C4.

Big Securities Firms Plan Moves
Morgan Stanley, the largest securities company firm in Manhattan, has agreed to buy the former 107-acre Texaco headquarters in Westchester County as part of an effort to decentralize its operations. At the same time, Goldman, Sachs is planning to move its equity trading department to Jersey City. A1.

Last-Minute Buying Lifts Stocks
A burst of last-minute bargain hunting gave the market a modest gain. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 25.67 points, or 0.3 percent, at 9,865.75. The Nasdaq composite index rose 6.21 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,943.91, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.22 points, to 1,133.06. C11.

2001 New-Home Sales Set Record
Sales of new homes rose 5.7 percent in December and set a record for the year, the government said, as the housing sector registered a stunning performance despite the economic recession. New homes sold last month at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 946,000, up from a revised 895,000 pace in November, the Commerce Department said. Analysts had expected a 1 percent decline. C11.

Apple Breaks the Gigahertz Mark
For the first time, Apple Computer broke the 1 gigahertz mark in single-processor performance in its computers, introducing a high-end desktop system priced at $2,999. Also, it said the order rate for its novel flat-panel-display iMac G4 is a record. C11.

Disagreements at World Trade Talks
A new global round of trade talks convened at the World Trade Organization's headquarters in Geneva, and almost immediately, squabbles broke out that threatened to undermine the negotiations. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,865.75 up 25.67Nasdaq composite -- 1,943.91 up 6.2110-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.07% Unch.The euro -- $0.8614 down 0.0038The dollar -- 133.46 yen down 0.81 Graph: "TODAY" shows durable goods orders. December figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time. Expected: +1.4% Graph shows new-home sales from July-December 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); WEIGHT REDUCING CENTERS (65%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); ACI CAPITAL CO LLC (66%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (56%); VOGUE MAGAZINE (55%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); DB CAPITAL PARTNERS (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%); GS (NYSE) (54%); MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



898 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
Beware The Yikes Of March

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
IT was not officially exam period at New York University, but Prof. Anders Henriksson was busy yesterday giving a history test at a campus deli. He was expecting the worst.
 Dr. Henriksson, a professor of history at Shepherd College in West Virginia, is the compiler of "Non Campus Mentis" (Workman Publishing), which is a history of the world taken verbatim from term papers and exams at American and Canadian colleges. In this chronicle from the Stoned Age to the Berlin Mall, Judyism is a monolithic religion with the god Yahoo. Gothic cathedrals are supported by flying buttocks. Hitler terrorizes enemies with his Gespacho. Caesar is assassinated on the Yikes of March and declares, "Me too, Brutus!" 
 How widespread is this ignorance? Dr. Henriksson demonstrated by giving a 27-question quiz, with 16 needed to get a passing grade (roughly 60 percent): 
In one sentence or less, identify Winston Churchill, Otto von Bismarck, Mohandas Gandhi, Nikita Khrushchev, Benito Mussolini, Sigmund Freud, Florence Nightingale and Adam Smith. In what countries are Warsaw, Caracas, Antwerp, Shanghai, Lagos and Pearl Harbor?
In what year did the United States Civil War end? World War I? When was the Russian Revolution? When did World War II start? When did American women get the right to vote in national elections? When was Napoleon defeated at Waterloo? When did Hitler become German chancellor? 
Find an error in each of these excerpts from student essays contained in Dr. Henriksson's book: 
*"Martin Luther Junior's famous 'If I Had a Hammer' speech." 
*"John F. Kennedy worked closely with the Russians to solve the Canadian Missile Crisis."
*"Stalin, Roosevelt, Churchill and Truman were known as the 'Big Three.' "
*"Athena the Hun rampaged the Balkans as far as France."
*"Ferdinand and Isabella conquered Granola, a part of Spain now known as Mexico."
*"Good times ended when England suffered civil war between the Musketeers and the Round Ones." 
The quiz was taken by five male and five female N.Y.U. undergraduates, chosen unscientifically by me at the Campus Eatery, a deli on West Fourth Street. Dr. Hendriksson graded leniently, but only one of the 10 students passed, and just barely with a 17. The average grade was 10 of 27. They all knew who Freud was, but that was about the extent of their common knowledge. 
A freshman economics major identified Adam Smith as an American president, and Florence Nightingale as a knight. A junior history major called the nurse a "famous poet" and located Caracas in Ohio.
A junior majoring in politics said the English civil war pitted the Round Ones against the "Square Ones." (It was the Roundheads versus the Cavaliers.) Other students placed Athena the Hun's rampage in the Spanish and the Austrian parts of the Balkans. Granola was called a part of Spain now known as "Florence."
The dates, not surprisingly, proved trouble for everyone. One student put the Civil War's end in 1770 instead of 1865. The Russian Revolution was moved to 1850 (the correct answer was any year from 1917 to 1920). Only one student knew that World War I ended in 1918, and only two knew the next world war started in 1939. No one put Waterloo in 1815, women's suffrage in 1920 or Hitler's rise in 1933.
You could interpet these results as a rebuke to American education, but the one foreign student in the group -- a German sophomore majoring in business -- flunked, too. He placed Warsaw in Austria. 
Dr. Hendriksson was neither surprised nor indignant at the results. "I'm not trying to launch a jeremiad against the American school system," he said. "But I do want to show that the base of common knowledge isn't as wide as we commonly assume. Our culture doesn't put a high emphasis on history."
But at least we sometimes recognize the limits of our knowledge. "I love it in student essays when they know they're going astray," Dr. Henriksson said. "They start trying to get philosophical about lack of knowledge, and they just get into more trouble." He paused and quoted one such philosopher. 
"Thus has our stream of consciousness developed a waterfall," Dr. Henriksson said, smiling as he savored the student's wisdom. Then he opened his book and fondly read its concluding rumination from a student essayist:
"It is now the age of now. This concept grinds our critical, seething minds to a halt."
Me too, Brutus! 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); HISTORY (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); LITERATURE (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); WRITERS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); POETRY (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICS (70%); RELIGION (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); WORLD WAR I (66%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (65%); CELEBRITIES (64%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; HISTORY; TESTS AND TESTING; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: WORKMAN PUBLISHING CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (74%); ADAM SMITH (51%) HENRIKSSON, ANDERS (PROF); TIERNEY, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); ENGLAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); AUSTRIA (54%)

TITLE: NON CAMPUS MENTIS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



899 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Hundreds in Nigeria Drown As They Flee Explosions
At least 200 people in Lagos, Nigeria's largest city, drowned in a canal while trying to flee a series of explosions at an army weapons depot near a residential area Sunday night. An army officer said the explosions were touched off by a fire that might have started at a gas station. A3

Ecuadorean Plane Missing
An airliner carrying 94 people disappeared and is presumed to have crashed in the mountains along Colombia's southern border. A3

Israeli Troops Protest
More than 50 reserve combat officers and soldiers said in a published statement that they would refuse to serve in the West Bank and Gaza Strip to protest actions against the Palestinians. The statement set off heated debate in Israel over the limits of civil disobedience. A10

World Briefing A8

NATION CHALLENGED A12-15

Bush Studying Issue Of Captives' Classification
President Bush said he was reconsidering whether Al Qaeda and Taliban fighters held at the Guantanamo Bay naval base in Cuba should be protected under the Geneva Convention. But he quickly added that they were "killers" who would not be granted the status of prisoners of war. A1

Saudi Leader's Views on U.S.
Crown Prince Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz of Saudi Arabia, who has been running the day-to-day operations of the kingdom, embraced the United States as a close friend and branded the Sept. 11 attacks a "deviant" attempt to destroy the bonds. But he also criticized the Bush administration for failing to help ease the suffering of the Palestinian people. A1

Deadly Fight at Hospital
Six Arab fighters who had been holed up in a Kandahar hospital for seven weeks, threatening to kill any Westerner who approached, died in a hail of gunfire and explosives from local Afghan troops directed by American Special Operations forces. A1

14 G.I.'s Hurt in Crash
An Army cargo helicopter carrying troops from the 101st Airborne Division crashed while trying to land at a mountain base in eastern Afghanistan, injuring 14 soldiers. Officials described the crash as an accident caused by blinding clouds of dust, dirt and sand kicked by the rotors. A12

Bush Pledges Afghan Aid
President Bush, accompanied at the White House by Afghanistan's interim leader, Hamid Karzai, vowed to build "a lasting partnership" with the war-torn nation by providing financial aid and training for police and military forces. A13

Tightening Olympic Security
The Justice Department has requested major last-minute changes in security arrangements at the Olympic Games in Salt Lake City out of concern that some sites are not adequately protected from a terror attack, law enforcement officials said. A1

Wary of New York Jurors
A lawyer for Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, who is suspected of being a top aide to Osama bin Laden, told a federal judge that he wanted his client's trial moved from New York City because jurors might be prejudiced by the Sept. 11 terror attack on the World Trade Center. A14

Portraits of Grief A15

NATIONAL A16-19

Bush Offers Proposal To Strengthen Medicare
President Bush called for spending $190 billion in the next decade to overhaul Medicare and provide prescription drug benefits to the elderly, starting with low-income people. Congressmen from both parties said the sum was insufficient. Mr. Bush also proposed a big rise in Medicare payments to H.M.O.'s, in hope of reversing their exodus from Medicare. A18

A Shift on 'Land Grabs'
Gov. Michael O. Leavitt of Utah said he would ask President Bush to create a protected area among the red rock canyons and bluffs of the San Rafael Swell in the central part of his state. Governor Leavitt, a Republican, long complained about President Bill Clinton's use of the same law to set aside scenic areas in the West as national monuments. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Corporate Giants Moving To Disperse Operations
Morgan Stanley, the largest securities company in Manhattan; Goldman Sachs; and Marsh & McLennan, which was housed in the trade center, are among several big companies dispersing workers in new facilities outside the city. The moves are born of a post-Sept. 11 determination not to let the businesses be concentrated in one place and subject to being knocked out by a single cataclysmic event. A1

Police Notice to Protesters
The New York Police Department said protesters at the World Economic Forum this week could expect a huge police presence, with zero tolerance for any violations of the law. B1

Danger in the Night
Methamphetamine -- known as crystal, Tina and Christina -- is becoming a conspicuous part of New York's gay club landscape and a major worry for health care workers. B1

Neediest Cases B8

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F6

ARTS E1-10

Nazi Imagery Creating a Fuss
A contemporary art exhibition that uses Nazi imagery and was organized by the Jewish Museum in Manhattan is making some tempers boil. E1

FASHION B10

SPORTS D1-7

OBITUARIES B9

Astrid Lindgren
The Swedish writer who created Pippi Longstocking was 94. B9

John Jackson
A master of the Piedmont blues tradition, he was 77. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Bush Adamant on Energy Files
President Bush defended his refusal to give information to Congress about contacts between Enron and the administration's energy task force, saying the request was "an encroachment on the executive branch's ability to conduct business." A1

Linda Lay, the wife of Kenneth L. Lay, who resigned last week as Enron's chief executive, defended her husband in a television interview and said the company's collapse had ruined the family financially, too. C1

Arthur Andersen's chairman and chief executive, Joseph F. Berardino, said the firm had lost business as a result of the Enron affair but client support remained strong and the firm was not looking to merge with a rival as a way out of trouble. C1

Global Crossing in Chapter 11
Global Crossing, which spent $15 billion building a worldwide network of high-speed Internet and phone lines, filed for bankruptcy protection, unable to find enough customers to make its network profitable. A1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Justice at Guantanamo; illuminating the Cheney task force; Liz Krueger for State Senate; warm and dry.
Columns: Paul Krugman, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E7
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); ARMIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); BONDS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); AIRLINES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); TALIBAN (75%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (75%); NAVIES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); MOUNTAINS (70%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (70%); LAWYERS (70%); AL-QAEDA (67%); OLYMPICS (62%); HELICOPTERS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%); PRISONERS OF WAR (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%); HAMAD KARZAI (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (91%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); CUBA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



900 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE OLYMPICS; 
U.S. IS REQUESTING TIGHTER SECURITY AT UTAH OLYMPICS

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
The Justice Department has requested major last-minute changes in security arrangements at the Olympic Games in Salt Lake City out of concern that some sites had not been adequately protected from a terrorist attack, law enforcement officials said.
 The department's move came after Attorney General John Ashcroft visited Salt Lake City earlier this month and came away dissatisfied with security plans for parts of the city away from the sports arenas, officials said. 
 They said Mr. Ashcroft was concerned that terrorists might take advantage of what he saw as inadequate security in open-air areas of shops and restaurants in Salt Lake City and surrounding communities where crowds would gather before and after the sporting events, which start on Feb. 8. In response, Olympics organizers have promised to increase surveillance and the size of their security patrols. 
Federal law enforcement agencies say they are intimately involved in security preparations for two other huge public events over the next two weeks: the World Economic Forum in New York, which will draw government and business leaders from around the world to Manhattan beginning Thursday, and the Super Bowl this Sunday in New Orleans.
Almost 4,000 police officers, backed up by hundreds of agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, have been assigned this week to surround the Waldorf-Astoria hotel, the site of the Economic Forum. Page B1. 
The security arrangements are expected to be nearly as exhaustive at the Super Bowl, which is the first sporting event ever to be designated a National Security Special Event by the White House. Page D1. 
But Justice Department officials said that in terms of security preparations, neither the World Economic Forum nor the Super Bowl could compare with the Olympic Games, which have been a terrorist target in past years and which will take place this winter over a 900-square-mile area of Utah -- much of it mountainous and snow-covered -- over 17 days.
Of the three events, officials said, the Olympics were of the greatest concern to Mr. Ashcroft, which explained why he conducted an unusually detailed, venue-by-venue inspection tour in Salt Lake City over four days this month. They said he had not been similarly involved in security planning for the World Economic Forum or the Super Bowl.
President Bush is expected to attend the opening ceremony of the Olympics on Feb. 8.
At the time of Mr. Ashcroft's visit to Utah, the attorney general said the level of Olympics security preparations would "set a new standard." A few days earlier, Tom Ridge, the director of homeland security, said Olympic organizers and security officials were doing "everything they can to minimize the risk."
Officials said today that while Mr. Ashcroft and Mr. Ridge agreed that overall security precautions were the best ever seen for an Olympics, the Justice Department still believed that much more needed to be done in Utah, especially to protect against the possibility of a terrorist attack at a site away from the athletic venues.
At the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta, one person was killed and more than 100 people were injured when a pipe bomb exploded in an entertainment area known as Centennial Park, which was away from the sports arenas where competitions were held. 
A spokesman for Mr. Ridge said that the homeland security director had been pleased by coordination among federal, state and local agencies planning for the Games in Salt Lake City and that he, unlike Mr. Ashcroft, had not been asked to focus on the details of some of the security preparations. The federal government is expected to spend at least $250 million for security in Salt Lake City, a record for an Olympics held in the United States.
Robert Flowers, the head of the umbrella organization responsible for security in Salt Lake City, confirmed in a telephone interview from Utah that the Justice Department had requested a series of last-minute security changes after Mr. Ashcroft's visit.
Mr. Flowers said the Olympics committee was "really close" to satisfying most of the attorney general's requests, many of them involving the deployment of additional security officers to areas where large numbers of people would gather away from the sports arenas. 
"It's about more officers, more bodies," said Mr. Flowers, who declined to discuss other, specific changes in the security plans.
Law enforcement officials said that as a result of his trip, Mr. Ashcroft had also ordered a series of drills between local and federal law enforcement agencies to be certain that the government was prepared to respond to a terrorist attack or other emergency.
They said that elsewhere in the Justice Department, officials had ordered closer monitoring of domestic extremists, including abortion opponents and antigovernment groups, that are based in the Western mountain states surrounding Utah.
The authorities have accused an abortion opponent from North Carolina, Eric Rudolph, of the 1996 Atlanta bombing. Mr. Rudolph, who has also been tied to white-supremacist groups, remains a fugitive.
"The Justice Department is reminding everyone that our terrorist threat goes beyond Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda," a senior federal law enforcement official said. "There are domestic threats as well. I think it's fair to say we'd like more of everything, from uniformed people on the ground to sniffer dogs to surveillance cameras."
Justice Department officials said there was no surprise in Mr. Ashcroft's decision to become involved in many of the detailed security preparations for the Olympics.
"Since Sept. 11, counterterrorism has dominated his agenda, and he sees the Olympics as the biggest security headache we face right now," a department official said.
Despite his public praise for the preparations while in Salt Lake City, officials said, the attorney general returned to Washington to say he had uncovered a variety of "blind spots" in the security preparations that he felt needed immediate correction.
Mr. Flowers, the security coordinator in Salt Lake City, said that in meetings with Mr. Ashcroft there and in later conversations with the Justice Department, he had obtained a pledge for additional federal resources to beef up security.
He said that as a result of Mr. Ashcroft's recommendations, he had also received verbal assurances from local Olympics planners in Salt Lake City that they would free up more money for security. He would not say how much.
"We haven't had all the resources that we've needed to cover every base," he acknowledged, citing in particular the problem of paying for tightened security patrols in neighborhoods of Salt Lake City and surrounding communities that are not directly involved in the Olympics. "We can't put a fence completely around the state of Utah."
Law enforcement officials said there would be extraordinarily close communication between local and federal law enforcement officers, and between Salt Lake City and Washington.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is planning a 24-hour-a-day direct video hookup between the Olympics security command center in Salt Lake City and the F.B.I.'s Strategic Information Operations Center, allowing bureau officials in Washington to monitor hundreds of surveillance cameras that have been stationed around the Olympic sites.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mitt Romney, left, president of the organizing committee for the Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, guided Attorney General John Ashcroft on a tour of venues on Jan. 19. Mr. Ashcroft praised preparations at the time. (Associated Press)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (93%); OLYMPICS (93%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (89%); WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); TRENDS (73%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) OLYMPIC GAMES; OLYMPIC GAMES (2002); WINTER GAMES (OLYMPICS); TERRORISM; FOOTBALL; SUPER BOWL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM; STADIUMS AND ARENAS 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (82%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%) JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) SHENON, PHILIP; ASHCROFT, JOHN (ATTY GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) UTAH, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%) SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH); NEW YORK CITY; NEW ORLEANS (LA); UTAH

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



901 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: DIPLOMACY; 
Bush Offers Afghanistan U.S. Help for Training Of Military and Police

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28 

 BODY:
With Afghanistan's interim leader, Hamid Karzai, at his side, President Bush vowed today to build "a lasting partnership" with the war-torn nation, by helping it to train its own police force and military and offering $50 million in credit for private investments in addition to the hundreds of millions of dollars of direct aid already pledged.
 "We will help the new Afghan government provide the security that is the foundation for peace," Mr. Bush told Mr. Karzai at a joint news conference in the White House Rose Garden after a meeting with senior national security officials. "The United States will continue to be a friend to the Afghan people in all the challenges that lie ahead." 
 But Mr. Bush and his top aides again made it plain that the administration had ruled out a direct military role for United States troops in an international peacekeeping force in Afghanistan. Mr. Karzai has broached the subject again on his first visit to Washington since taking power on Dec. 22, and the first visit by an Afghan head of state since 1963.
"Better yet than peacekeepers, which will be there for a while, with our help, let's have Afghanistan have her own military," Mr. Bush said. In the short term, the president said, American troops would continue their efforts to rout out Taliban and Al Qaeda elements and to provide logistical, intelligence and emergency assistance to the peacekeeping forces -- now mostly British -- on the ground.
For his part, Mr. Karzai, resplendent in his trademark green silk robe and gray lamb's-wool hat, declared: "This joint struggle against terrorism should go to the absolute end of it. We must finish them. We must bring them out of their caves and their hide-outs, and we promise to do that."
Mr. Karzai said his administration was assisting in the hunt for Osama bin Laden. 
"He is a fugitive," Mr. Karzai said in his clipped English. "If we find him, we'll catch him."
The meeting today was mostly symbolic, on a visit that Mr. Karzai himself has described as a sentimental trip to thank the United States for its military defeat of the Taliban. Senior administration officials said the half-hour meeting in the Oval Office, also attended by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, broke little policy ground, but allowed both leaders to restate their previously known positions on peacekeeping troops, for example.
At an international conference in Tokyo last week, the United States pledged almost $300 million in direct aid over the next year to help Afghanistan rebuild its shattered roads, schools, health care system and agricultural economy, part of a $1.8 billion first-year international commitment. A White House communique issued today spelled out various specifics, including a commitment to print and distribute nearly 10 million reading, mathematics and science textbooks in time for the beginning of the Afghan school year in March.
The separate $50 million line of credit from the government's Overseas Private Investment Corporation, announced today by Mr. Bush, is intended to function as risk insurance for private American companies that want to make commercial investments in Afghanistan.
With reports that Iran may be seeking to exert influence in the western areas of Afghanistan, an administration official would say only that Mr. Bush and Mr. Karzai discussed "regional issues" in their meeting.
While Afghanistan availed itself of American military training assistance as long ago as the 1950's, as Mr. Karzai noted today, Mr. Bush said his administration's commitment to help train a new Afghan army was "a significant change of policy." Washington has gone out of its way not to look too heavy-handed in its dealings with Mr. Karzai, whose hold on his sprawling, factionalized country is tenuous at best, and set to expire in five months.
By pledging such support today, one senior administration official said, Mr. Bush was sending a strong signal of American resolve.
"The messenger was almost as important as the message here, that you're hearing this from the president of the United States, and in public," the official said.
Before heading to the White House, where he lunched with Vice President Dick Cheney, Mr. Karzai helped raise the Afghan flag at his country's former embassy in the Kalorama neighborhood. The embassy had been padlocked since the Taliban took power in 1996.
"It has interior waterfalls, and it's not a Hyatt," said Tom Lauria, an embassy spokesman.
In a sign of the challenges Afghanistan faces, the flag of broad bars of black, red and green -- based on a 1964 design not used since Mohammad Zahir Shah was deposed nearly 30 years ago -- was sewn just this morning by two Afghan-American women in suburban Virginia.
"Let's hope this flag will be there forever and that the partnership between the American and Afghan people will be forever," Mr. Karzai said.
But moments after it began to flutter in the morning breeze, the flag was lowered and quickly taken to the White House. Officials explained that the design had just been approved by the interim government and that the flag, the only copy in town, was needed for the Rose Garden ceremony.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hamid Karzai, the interim Afghan leader, and President Bush yesterday at the White House, where they held a meeting and a news conference. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AL-QAEDA (86%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); HIJACKING (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); HEALTH CARE (68%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%) ;TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%); HAMAD KARZAI (91%) BIN LADEN, OSAMA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KARZAI, HAMID; PURDUM, TODD S; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); JAPAN (78%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2002 



902 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Durable Goods Orders Up 2%; Hint of Revival 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
Orders for durable goods rose in December, the Commerce Department reported today, the second increase in the last three months and a sign that factories are starting to recover from a year-and-a-half-long slump.
 Orders for big-ticket goods increased 2 percent, to $176.4 billion, in contrast to a revised 6 percent decline the previous month. 
 Demand increased 3.5 percent for autos, aircraft, semiconductors and machinery after falling 20 percent in November. Orders for durable goods other than transportation equipment rose 1.4 percent in December compared with a revised 0.7 percent the previous month.
Another report by the Conference Board, a business research group, showed that a measure of consumer confidence in January was the highest in five months. The index of consumer sentiment rose to 97.3 this month from 94.6 in December. An index of expectations, which measures the outlook six months from now, soared to a one-year high.
"Expectations have come roaring back," said Tim Rogers, chief economist at Briefing.com in Boston. "It seems like the U.S. consumer is ready to go shop again."
Inventories had contracted by $61.9 billion at an annual pace in the third quarter, when the economy shrank at a 1.3 percent annual pace, according to official figures. Analysts said they probably fell more in the fourth quarter, suggesting that manufacturers would start increasing production to meet demand. 
Analysts had expected December durable goods orders to rise 1.4 percent, to $177.9 billion. They also expected a 1.4 percent rise, excluding transportation equipment.
Durable goods are products like aircraft and cars made to last more than three years. For 2001, orders fell 13.2 percent, in contrast to a 6.7 percent increase in 2000, the Commerce Department said. The decline last year was the worst showing since the current system of keeping records began in 1992. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); DURABLE GOODS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

COMPANY: BRIEFING.COM (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; CONFERENCE BOARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



903 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Worries of More Enrons to Come Give Stock Prices a Pounding

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Concerns about the troubling practices that led to the failure of Enron slammed into the stock market yesterday.
 Companies whose shares took the worst beating were those with opaque or complex financial statements, those heavy with debt or those with even a whiff of off-balance-sheet obligations. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 247.51 points, to 9,618.24, a loss of 2.5 percent. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 2.86 percent of its value, dropping to 1,100.64. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 2.6 percent, to 1,892.99. 
 "It's the cockroach theory," said Anthony M. Maramarco, portfolio manager at the Babson Value Fund in Cambridge, Mass. "There's never going to be just one company that because of accounting practices or excessive debt levels will be a problem. As a result, we go out there and wholesale get rid of anything that might come close to being as tainted as what we have identified as the initial culprit."
Shares of financial companies fell across the board. Stocks of companies with troubling news, including PNC Financial and Tyco International, plunged even more than most.
"I think what Enron has raised is the question about all financial reporting," said Liz Miller, portfolio manager at Trevor Stewart Burton & Jacobsen, in New York. "The detail of the reporting, the clarity of the reporting, the simplicity of the reporting." 
Ms. Miller said it was no coincidence that stocks took a pounding just ahead of President Bush's State of the Union address and on the first day of a two-day meeting by the Federal Reserve Board. "I think investors are looking for some very high-level responses to this condition," she said.
Selling was widespread yesterday for bank and financial services stocks, which have made billions in loans to companies now viewed as far riskier than they were when the nation's economy was healthy. Shares of J. P. Morgan Chase lost 6.6 percent of their value, Merrill Lynch fell 7.5 percent, and Citigroup shed 5.3 percent. 
Telecommunications companies were hammered after Global Crossing, a giant concern, filed for bankruptcy. WorldCom, the big long-distance carrier based in Clinton, Miss., plunged to $10.40, its lowest level since 1995. And the Williams Companies, a natural gas pipeline company, fell 22 percent on disclosures that it might have $2.4 billion in unexpected costs associated with a business that was spun off last year.
Investors also put pressure on conglomerates with operations that are varied, far-flung and hard to fathom. Tyco, a company known for its complex financial statements, lost 20 percent of its value, falling to $33.65 a share. Contributing to investor skittishness was Tyco's disclosure that it had paid $20 million to an outside director and a charity he controls for help in arranging an acquisition last year. 
Even shares of General Electric, one of the nation's bluest chips, fell 4.4 percent, a reflection of investors' fears that the financial statements of companies in multiple lines of business may be too difficult to understand.
Investors are not the only ones bringing greater scrutiny to corporations' accounting practices. The Federal Reserve appears to be taking a closer look at banks' financial positions, too.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Pennsylvania's largest bank, announced yesterday that it would reduce its 2001 net income by $155 million, or 53 cents a share, after Fed officials expressed concerns that the company was improperly accounting for some problem loans and venture capital holdings that it sold last year to three separate entities.
PNC said it had retained only a partial interest in the entities and had included that stake on its books, with the approval of its auditors, Ernst & Young. But the regulators instructed the bank-holding company to consolidate the entire value of the holdings on its balance sheet. Walter Gregg, a vice chairman of the bank, said PNC restated its figures to "avoid confusion going forward and in light of our desire to resolve the issue as quickly as possible."
Shares of Cendant, a company with franchises of residential real estate operations and motels and the owner of the Avis rental car business, also fell sharply. The company has seven partnerships that it has used to move various operations from its books, said Jay Leupp, a stock analyst at Robertson Stephens.
The main purpose of these deals was not to hide debt but to avoid reporting losses, especially accounting charges for acquisitions and other items that do not affect the company's cash flow. Unlike Enron, Cendant disclosed details of each partnership to investors.
Mr. Leupp said the partnerships' debt of $1 billion to $1.5 billion was "not much in comparison to Cendant's $10 billion to $11 billion in total long-term debt." He estimated that shifting operations into the partnerships added 20 to 30 cents to Cendant's earnings in 2001. But investors may be nervous, he said, because once the company moved the units into the partnerships, crucial elements were no longer disclosed. "I wish I could see more of the drivers of their revenue and expenses," Mr. Leupp said.
Phone calls to Cendant were not returned late last night.
Even professional investors who know how to digest financial statements seem to be realizing that they may not truly know what they own.
"It has become much more difficult to make a standard comparison among companies in a world where derivatives and off-balance-sheet transactions are an increasingly significant part of a company's operations," said Jonathan Cohen, portfolio manager at JHC Capital in Greenwich, Conn., and former chief of software and Internet research at Merrill Lynch.
Confidence in the stock market rests on several basic beliefs: that corporate managers will be truthful, that auditors will be able to judge companies' financial positions and that stock analysts and bond rating agencies will be able to analyze how sound or promising companies are. The fall of Enron has shattered all these fundamental beliefs.
As a result, many investors perceive greater risk in almost every publicly traded stock.
"If I own a lot of stocks, now I have to wonder about whether much of the data on which I have based my judgments is accurate or phony," said Stan Jonas, managing director at Fimat USA, a broker-dealer in New York. "If I don't know whether a company is honest or its accountants are honest, I have to act as though it is dishonest. That means I have to discount the price I will pay for it to adjust for that risk."
Mr. Maramarco, the Babson fund manager, said his company had had visits in recent days from two top accounting analysts at Wall Street firms. "Both these people, who clearly know balance sheets and income statements inside out, have thrown up their hands," he said. "They say there are so many ways for companies to obfuscate their financial statements and have their accountants sign off on it that they don't have a chance."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C11) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C11) Chart: "Feeling Jittery"The stock market was off sharply yesterday, fueled by growing investor concern about companies with complex financial statements. Williams Cos.YESTERDAY'S CLOSING PRICE: $18.78CHANGE FROM MONDAY: -22.2 Tyco InternationalYESTERDAY'S CLOSING PRICE: 33.65CHANGE FROM MONDAY: -19.9 WorldComYESTERDAY'S CLOSING PRICE: 10.40CHANGE FROM MONDAY: -13.3 CendantYESTERDAY'S CLOSING PRICE: 16.52CHANGE FROM MONDAY: -10.0 PNC FinancialYESTERDAY'S CLOSING PRICE: 56.08CHANGE FROM MONDAY: -9.4 S. & P. 500YESTERDAY'S CLOSING PRICE: 1,100.64CHANGE FROM MONDAY: -2.9(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (84%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ETHICS (76%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (73%); ACCOUNTING (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (62%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (50%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; FINANCES; ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: WILLIAMS COS INC (62%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (55%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

TICKER: WMB (NYSE) (62%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); TYC (NYSE) (55%); VZC (LSE) (52%); VZ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (62%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (62%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (62%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (62%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (55%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



904 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Near Ground Zero, a Vote to Return to School 

BYLINE:  By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS 

 BODY:
Parents and teachers at Public School 89, which was evacuated after the terrorist attack of Sept. 11, have voted by a wide margin to return to their school on Feb. 28, after five months in temporary quarters.
 The vote, tallied yesterday, apparently ends weeks of bitter conflict over the date of the return: parents questioned whether their children would be harmed, physically or mentally, by returning to the school, which is within a few blocks of ground zero. It will make P.S. 89 the sixth of the seven public schools near the World Trade Center site in Lower Manhattan to return to their regular buildings, bringing the schools a step closer to normality. 
 Sharon Sprague, co-chairwoman of the school's Parents Association, said yesterday that based on the vote, the association had decided to drop its suit to further delay the return. 
"I spoke to the lawyers and I said that, at this moment, I don't have authorization to go forward," she said.
The vote was 191 to 114, or 63 percent to 37 percent, in favor of returning. About 30 teachers cast votes; the others were cast by parents. The school has 240 students. 
Andrew Miltenberg, the pro bono lawyer for the Parents Association, said yesterday that a group of parents still believed, based on independent experts consulted for the lawsuit, that the environmental safety of the neighborhood around P.S. 89 was unknown, especially for children. But he said he had acceded to the wishes of Ms. Sprague.
In the immediate aftermath of the attacks, the school lost about 40 percent of its students, as some families fled the city. The conflict over the return and the decision to take the city to court, parents said, tore the school community apart.
"After 9/11 everyone got scattered like so many sticks thrown in the air," said Robin McKay, a parent at P.S. 89 and a member of the Parents Association's executive board. "So people do want to regain control of their school, they want to grow the community again. Some people went as far as Mexico and they probably won't come back till September -- but would you?"
"It's going to be interesting to all come back together," she added. "I for one, plan to push for a very big party for adults only, just have a huge homecoming."
Chancellor Harold O. Levy also welcomed the decision.
Students at the High School for Leadership and Public Service, just a block south of the trade center site on Trinity Place, are returning to their building today.
But the fate of the last of the seven evacuated schools, the High School of Economics and Finance, remained uncertain yesterday. Their return, scheduled for today, was postponed after teachers found soot in their building, also on Trinity Place, on a walking tour. The board agreed yesterday to a 10-day delay and further cleanup. But some parents were angry that conditions at their host school, Norman Thomas High School in Midtown, were deteriorating. Classes, already cut to 40 minutes from 50 minutes, are now being cut to 30 minutes and the students' shift is being pushed later in the day, to end at 6:30 p.m. instead of 6 p.m.
"These kids are being treated like second-class citizens," said Roy Kessler, a parent.
At P.S. 89, ballots were sent home with students on Friday. But when the ballots were returned on Monday, the Parents Association sealed them and refused to count them because they had a date the same day in Manhattan State Supreme Court seeking to block the reopening. 
In a tense court hearing Monday, the parents and the Board of Education appeared to be at an impasse, with neither side able to negotiate a date beyond Feb. 28, the day the board favored. Judge Michael D. Stallman urged them forward, but declined to set a date himself.
During the hearing, parents clung tightly to a suitcase containing the ballots, while Chad Vignola, the board's lawyer, angrily demanded that the judge force the vote to be counted. Justice Stallman refused, saying that the parents -- not he -- had sent out the ballots and had a right to take possession of whatever was sent back. He advised the parents though, that it would be "utter folly" to destroy them.
On Monday night, the Parents Association sent home a letter saying the ballots would not be counted, because they were irrelevant.
But by yesterday morning, the executive board voted 8 to 2 to count them. "I am not happy with the Feb. 28 return date," Ms. Sprague said. "But you have to take responsibility and get real. This is what we have." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); FAMILY (79%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRO BONO LAW (73%); LAWYERS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); LITIGATION (68%); AIRLINES (60%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES 

PERSON: HARTOCOLLIS, ANEMONA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



905 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: N.Y.U. and Union Agree On Graduate-Student Pay 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON and STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
New York University and the United Auto Workers announced yesterday that they had reached the first union agreement between a private university and its graduate teaching and research assistants. 
 The four-year agreement, which is subject to a ratification vote scheduled for this afternoon, will raise stipends for many graduate students by nearly 40 percent, provide them with health care benefits and pay them extra if their teaching or research work takes more than 20 hours a week. 
 But the agreement also fulfills N.Y.U.'s main goal, giving it continued control over academic decisions like which courses graduate students will teach and how many students will be in their classes.
The agreement comes as graduate students at Columbia, Brown and several other major universities are also seeking union representation. The N.Y.U. contract is expected to become a model. 
"This was terra incognita," said L. Jay Oliva, N.Y.U.'s president. "No private university had faced this challenge before."
In late 2000, the National Labor Relations Board, then controlled by Democrats, gave graduate teaching assistants at private universities the right to unionize in a case involving N.Y.U. But many union leaders fear that the current labor board, now controlled by Republicans, may soon reverse that policy and from now on deny graduate students in private universities the right to unionize.
At public universities, which are covered by state labor laws, graduate students in many states have been allowed to unionize for years.
The tentative N.Y.U. contract, which covers more than 1,000 graduate assistants, includes a no-strike provision, including a ban on sympathy strikes.
Robert Berne, N.Y.U.'s vice president for academic and health affairs and its lead negotiator, said the stipend increases would be costly but were necessary for N.Y.U. to compete in attracting graduate students.
"We were behind on our stipends and our health care coverage," he said.
Including health care coverage, he said, the contract will raise N.Y.U.'s labor costs for graduate assistants by about 50 percent over four years. Nevertheless, he added: "This is a good contract that serves the university and its graduate assistants well." 
Phil Wheeler, the director of the United Auto Workers for the Northeast, called the contract "a major breakthrough."
"We ended up being able to work out an agreement even though a lot of people said it couldn't be done," he said. "We ended up establishing a decent relationship where we know how to deal with each other in the future."
Some graduate students also expressed delight.
"It's a great agreement," said Julen Esteban-Pretel, a doctoral student in economics. "We've achieved most of the things we want to get. We didn't give up anything. We're going to get substantial raises for everybody. We're going to get health insurance, which is very important."
Until now, stipends for N.Y.U.'s graduate teaching and research assistants generally ranged from $9,000 to $14,000 a year. Under the agreement, stipends will be raised to at least $15,000 this year, retroactive to Sept. 1, with the stipend rising $1,000 a year for the next three years.
The university will also pay half the $1,200 cost of individual health insurance for all graduate assistants this year and the full cost next year. N.Y.U. now pays a third of the cost for about 70 percent of the graduate assistants while the other 30 percent pay for their own coverage. Graduate assistants, who average 20 hours a week over the 30-week academic year, also receive free tuition and fees, valued at $21,000 a year.
The contract covers only a fraction of N.Y.U.'s 18,000 graduate students. Graduate teaching or research assistants in four scientific fields are covered by other contracts.
Kim Williams-Guillen, a doctoral student in anthropology, said she was pleased that if graduate students put in more than 20 hours each week they could be paid more than the stipend.
"Many people found they exceeded that average without any sort of extra compensation," she said.
Now that N.Y.U. has reached agreement with Local 2110 of the autoworkers' union, the union's attention will turn to other private universities where graduate students are seeking to unionize.
At Columbia, where the minimum stipend is $15,000. students have petitioned the labor board to approve a unionization vote. But the university is contesting such a vote, and a labor board decision is expected soon.
"Graduate students who are unsure of the impact a union will have can look at the N.Y.U. contract and see the concrete evidence of the benefits of unionizing," said David Carpio, a third-year doctoral student in biology at Columbia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (94%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); OVERTIME (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); STRIKES (73%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS; ORGANIZED LABOR; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; WORKING HOURS; HEALTH INSURANCE; OVERTIME 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (55%) NEW YORK UNIVERSITY; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



906 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Mink? In a Shirtsleeves Winter?; 
Just as Fur Was Getting Hot, Busy Season Turned Balmy

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
In a little more than a year, Bobbi Rudd, the owner of a real estate company in Manhattan, has bought herself four fur coats.
 Her collection includes a lightweight unlined olive-green coat made of sheared woven rabbit, with a matching scarf; a wine-colored collarless sheared mink coat; and a reversible coat that is sheared black mink on one side and steel-gray leather on the other. 
 "I love furs that don't look like fur," said Mrs. Rudd, of the Upper West Side, as she shopped for a sheared mink lining for her daughter-in-law's microfiber raincoat at Goldin Feldman, a third-generation furrier on 30th Street, in the heart of what is left of Manhattan's fur district.
Mink is still the preferred choice of most women who buy fur, but the wide variety of styles and techniques -- shearing, plucking, knitting and even embroidery -- have helped to reinvigorate the fur industry after many lean years. 
Until only recently, fur seemed to be making a strong comeback. The animal rights movement had been steadily losing steam in this country (although not in Europe), the economy was good and designers who had been afraid for political reasons to work with fur were using it again. In 2000, fur sales nationwide reached $1.69 billion, an increase of 21 percent from 1999.
But instead of repeating that success, many furriers are having a tough time this winter. The faltering stock market and the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks are partly to blame, but industry experts cite an even more critical factor: the unusually balmy weather.
Temperatures have been so warm this winter -- a record was set yesterday -- that a couple of hundred fur coats are still hanging in the storage room at Ritz Furs, a resale shop on 57th Street, because their owners have apparently felt no urgency to retrieve them.
No official sales figures are available, but William Brenner, a fur dealer since 1969, estimated that business in the city's fur district was off by as much as 30 percent. "If it starts getting cold early in the season," Mr. Brenner said, "women go out and buy -- period. If it's warm, they say, 'Oh, I can wait.' It's a mind-set."
In a business driven more by psychological needs than practical considerations, impulse plays a large role. "Fur is very much of an emotional buy," said Steve Gold, the North American marketing director for Saga Furs of Scandinavia, an organization that promotes the use of fur. "You have to wait for that right moment."
Retailers say the weather may have deterred customers from buying coats, but have not slowed sales of scarves, hats, bags and other fur accessories. "They're still very hot," said Keith Tauber, the manager of Ritz Furs, which also sells novelty items like mink cases for cellphones. Fur trim -- fox for a coat collar, for example -- is also doing well this season, industry experts say.
Situated since the 1920's at the northern end of Chelsea, from 26th Street to 31st Street, between Sixth and Eighth Avenues, the fur district used to be a world unto itself, with hangouts like Hershey's Dairy, and its famously bossy waiters, and Traders, where the specialty was London broil on twin seeded rolls. Those restaurants are long gone, as is the Fur Center Synagogue and the two auction houses.
These days, furriers, like garment manufacturers, are competing for space with lawyers and dot-com companies. Rising real estate prices have forced many furriers to team up and split the rent. Robert Englander, who oversees production at Miller & Berkowitz, a 52-year-old family business, estimated that rents had tripled over the last few years. With the economic downturn, annual rents are beginning to drop slightly -- from $27 a square foot to $25 -- but not enough to make a difference.
Many showrooms now list several names on the door. The factory where Miller & Berkowitz produces chinchilla coats that Neiman Marcus sells for $75,000 is shared with four other furriers, and the company is now leasing most of its storage space in New Jersey. 
Today, only one building in the fur district, at 150 West 30th Street, is occupied exclusively by furriers. But that distinction may soon disappear because two floors are currently on the market.
One of the empty floors used to be leased by Pologeorgis Furs, a family business established in the 1960's, when Greek furriers began playing a prominent role in the industry. As his lease was about to expire and his rent was about to double, Nick Pologeorgis, the company president -- and, at 39, said to be one of the youngsters in an aging industry -- took the bold step of buying a loft on 29th Street.
In 2000, Mr. Pologeorgis said, he had his best year. Last year started off well, but then sales weakened. Now he is eagerly waiting for sales figures from the department stores that account for 90 percent of his business.
The fur industry underwent significant change in the 1970's, when merchants like Fred the Furrier and Antonovich began marketing fur as a mass-market product. Some furriers say this broadened the customer base, but others contend that it cheapened fur's image, driving some customers away. "If my housekeeper is wearing a mink coat, why would I want to?" said Anne Dee Goldin, the owner of Goldin Feldman. "The furriers did this to themselves."
By the late 1980's, most of the manufacturing had moved abroad, primarily to Asia, to take advantage of the cheaper labor. But fur became popular again, Ms. Goldin said, when young designers like Narciso Rodriguez began working with it.
As of last year, the city had only 81 fur companies employing 450 workers, according to the State Department of Labor, down from about 450 companies and 2,254 workers in 1987. (Fur New York, a trade group, estimates that there are actually 150 to 200 remaining companies, but says some are independent contractors with no employees.)
Some furriers moved to Long Island City, but most companies simply disappeared, often because no one was left to run the business. 
Despite this year's setbacks, Mr. Gold said that many furriers earn a good living catering to the upper end of the market, where a mink coat made by a painstaking process that has changed very little over the years can cost as much as $20,000 and a sable coat $25,000 or much more. Most sell both wholesale and retail, often charging customers as much as 40 percent less than they would pay in a department store. (Today, however, it is also possible to negotiate the price of a fur at a department store, said Keith Kaplan, a spokesman for the Fur Information Council of America, a trade group.)
These days, a customer can buy a sheared mink coat that is made to look like a corduroy trench coat, a sable coat that reverses to suede or a shearling jacket that weighs little more than a sweater.
These designs are aimed at customers like Tamar Harraway, 35, of Queens, who already owns a full-length mink coat and a swing jacket made of sheared rabbit. "I'm looking for an everyday coat," said Ms. Harraway, a computer engineer, as she tried on a $4,500 whiskey-colored mink coat, designed by Karl Lagerfeld, and a green sheared muskrat jacket at Ritz Furs.
And why does she like fur? "It's just this feeling you get," she said, "It's classy and you can dress it up with a hat. Fur is fun, very fun."
Like many young women today, Gloria, a 34-year-old single nurse from the Bronx, was not waiting for a man to buy her a fur coat. Gloria, who did not want her last name published, chose a traditional, full-length mink. Such coats account for at least 80 percent of fur sales, according to Mr. Kaplan.
Gloria, who paid $1,500 for a refurbished coat, said she felt it was something she deserved. "There comes a time in every woman's life," she said, "when she needs pearls, diamonds and a beautiful mink coat."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nick Pologeorgis showed off one of his company's top coats inside his studio. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times); Steve Katolis of Miller & Berkowitz, which shares factory space with four other furriers, working on a future luxury item. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (91%); FUR APPAREL STORES (89%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (73%); ANIMAL WELFARE (73%); RETAIL SALES (70%); RETAILERS (70%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (67%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (67%); TERRORISM (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) FUR; WEATHER; CRUELTY TO ANIMALS 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



907 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: For City, Good Buzz May Be Best Payoff Of Economic Forum 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
Money pumped into New York's economy by bigwigs on a spree at the schmoozefest called the World Economic Forum: $13 million or $19.4 million, depending on how you figure it.
 Cost of protecting said bigwigs from protesters bent on disrupting the aforementioned schmoozefest, a k a Davos on the Hudson: more than $11 million. 
 Value of international television coverage of the forum (even if such coverage consists mainly of men in rimless spectacles discussing impenetrable topics in incomprehensible accents): priceless.
That, at least, is the theory over at NYC & Company, the tourism-boosting outfit that is helping to bring the forum to New York City, starting Thursday. "Broadcasting overseas that New York City is open for business is priceless," said Cristyne L. Nicholas, president of the quasi-governmental agency, which is eager to bring free-spending foreign tourists back to the city. 
All of the figures cited above are so fuzzy that they should come with footnotes. But if security costs are higher than they have been at past events, and if spending by visitors is lower, it is possible that the costs and benefits will balance each other out. Which means, in effect, that money would move out of the hands of taxpayers through the forum and into the till of the Waldorf-Astoria, the main site of the event.
The figures are also projections, which often do not pan out, as Seattle found out when it played host to the World Trade Organization in 1999. Seattle expected to spend $6 million on security while local businesses raked in $11 million; instead, the city spent $9 million -- 50 percent more than expected -- and local businesses say they lost $17 million after violent protesters destroyed property downtown and the police declared a state of emergency.
Still, even New York City's strictest budget watchdogs think the city will benefit from the attention generated by the forum and similar events. "This one may or may not be a loss leader," said Doug Turetsky, communications director for the Independent Budget Office. "But it helps market and expand New York's image as a host of world and national and international forums."
A lot will depend on how calm the protesters and the police remain (and how coddled the dignitaries feel). 
"If it goes well, it's a coming-out party for the City of New York, and it's worth a lot of money," said John Tepper Marlin, chief economist for the city comptroller's office. He says the overall value of the event could reach $250 million (which may sound like a lot, but it's far less than the economic value of the United States Open tennis championship in Queens). "If it goes badly, it's a big negative." 
The last time the city was the site of a similar gathering of international pooh-bahs and corporate potentates was in 1999, at the millennium summit meeting of the United Nations.
But that wingding attracted fewer than 200 V.V.V.I.P.'s. The forum this week will include more than 1,000 business leaders paying $25,000 a head, 200 "academic experts," 300 "media leaders" and "nearly 300 public figures" (it's unclear which category includes the sculptor and art therapist from France, or, for that matter, a certain former mayor). And the United Nations summit meeting did not attract thousands of young people planning to dress up as giant squid and avenge the ills of the world by protesting at the Gap.
Even so, police overtime during that three-day event cost $11 million, according to the Independent Budget Office. (The last Subway Series and Yankees victory parade cost $4.6 million.)
The Police Department has not said how much it expects to spend on overtime; asked if anyone had talked about the police costs, Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said no. Asked at a news conference on Monday how much New York taxpayers would pony up for security, the forum's organizers ignored the question, but did say that their meeting's direct economic benefit would be $12 million to $18 million.
They attributed that figure to NYC & Company, which itself is using $13 million or $19.4 million. The agency came up with those numbers by calculating the percentage spent on food, shopping, transportation and lodging by a typical visitor. 
It then plugged in a secret figure for how much the forum's guests will spend on lodging (secret but big -- room rates start at $365 a night for the shindig). Multiply that by 3,000 guests and voila: $13 million.
The total jumps to $19.4 million if you include a multiplier (roughly 1.5) that is standard in the tourism business and tries to estimate the ripple effects of tourist spending. For purposes of comparison, the Belmont Stakes usually bring in about $6.3 million to the city's economy. And in 1999, the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade generated $23.3 million, according to the New York City Economic Development Corporation.
NYC & Company's projections are very conservative, Ms. Nicholas said, pointing out that they do not include the huge sums being spent on soirees at restaurants like the Four Seasons, or even the amount that the protesters will be shelling out at vegetarian restaurants across the five boroughs. And the attendees at the forum tend to be big spenders, whose idea of a nice New York souvenir is a Tiffany crystal apple, not a thermometer shaped like the Empire State Building.
The big question, of course, is whether the forum attendees will actually get out and spend in New York's stores and restaurants, or whether they will be locked inside the Waldorf by protests (or by discussion topics like "Attracting Capital Inflows in a Risk-Averse Environment").
Ms. Nicholas said her agency had made special efforts to ensure that the participants "in fact will not be locked inside the Waldorf." Bus trips are planned to museums as far away as Queens, and special shopping expeditions will be made to Saks Fifth Avenue before and after the usual hours.
And to please the truly intrepid forum attendee, Ms. Nicholas has a special gift: MetroCards. So keep your eyes open on the bus. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); RIOTS (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (74%); CITIES (74%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); TENNIS (69%); SPORTS (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); TRENDS (67%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



908 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Davos on the Hudson 

 BODY:
Many corporate gatherings have themes, but the World Economic Forum may be the only one that has a human ideal. The Davos Man, named for the Swiss town where the conference has been held for the past 32 years, is a model of globe-trotting, high-tech, New Economy savvy. And for the next five days some 3,000 Davos Men, and a sprinkling of Davos Women, will descend on the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City from around the world, Blackberry personal messaging devices in hand and silk ties flapping in the wind. 
 The world's pre-eminent powerfest, Davos -- as everyone still calls it -- is being held in Manhattan to express solidarity with post-Sept. 11 New York. This year's theme is "leadership in fragile times," and many of the conference's panels and workshops have been tailored to the economic, political and spiritual fallout of last year's tragic events. If history is any guide, however, these high-minded tutorials will be hard pressed to compete with the week's tightly packed schedule of cocktail parties and networking luncheons, many put on by the 1,000 major corporations underwriting the forum. 
 Globalization is by nature a diffuse target, which is why this gathering -- like World Trade Organization and Group of 8 meetings in recent years in Seattle and Genoa -- will be a tempting target for critics of the new world order. Anarchists, Socialists, labor unionists, opponents of industrial pollution, supporters of third-world debt relief and other members of the anti-globalism movement are expected to show up in force. New York City's Police Department has already declared a zero-tolerance policy for lawbreaking during the conference, which it insists will extend to littering, jaywalking and violations of an obscure and constitutionally dubious state law against three or more people appearing in public in masks.
The forum's organizers say they hope the move away from Davos, a winter playland for the rich, nestled in the Alps, will establish a more sober tone for this year's meeting. New York has been in a contemplative mood in recent months, one that all the event's participants could emulate, starting with the invited guests. Davos has traditionally been far more ready to celebrate globalism than to reflect on the harm that can result as corporations become increasingly untethered to any specific place. This year the forum's organizers have invited a number of human rights activists, union officials and advocates for the world's poor to participate in panels and workshops. Further moves in this direction could transform Davos into an enlightening experience for the participants, and a more valuable forum for addressing world problems.
Anti-globalism protesters would also do well to adopt a more solemn tone, consistent with recent events. After the destruction of the World Trade Center, the sort of violent clashes that broke out in Seattle and Genoa no longer generate the same anti-authority frisson. The anti-globalism message will be best received, certainly by violence-weary New Yorkers, if it is delivered not by physical confrontation and broken store windows but by appeals to reason and conscience.
Law enforcement should also act with restraint. At a time when Americans are reflecting on the nation's most cherished values, Davos Men and Women should be able to convene in New York to plan their new world, while ordinary men and women freely and peacefully gather to protest the meeting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); HIJACKING (79%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); POLICE FORCES (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); TERRORISM (69%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); AIRLINES (66%); RIOTS (64%); TRENDS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ALPS (52%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (91%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



909 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Nigerian Army Investigates Cause of Fire in Armory
The military began an inquiry into a fire in an ammunition dump that led to the deaths of more than 600 people in Lagos, the country's largest city. Defense Minister Theophilus Danjuma ordered the immediate relocation of the armory and appeared to give credence to growing speculation that the cause was not accidental. A8

Japan Foreign Minister Ousted
Makiko Tanaka was fired by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, ending a tumultuous nine-month alliance that had two of Japan's most popular politicians balancing their reformist tactics in the same government. A6

A Belated Trip Home
The French Senate voted to return the remains of Saartjie Baartman, a South African who was paraded around 19th-century Europe as a sexual freak and whose body parts were put on display after her death. A4

World Briefing A6

NATION CHALLENGED A9-11

Intricate Web Lured Reporter To His Abduction in Pakistan
Daniel Pearl of The Wall Street Journal was drawn into a well-laid trap by abductors who promised to arrange a secret meeting with a Muslim cleric, Sheik Mubarik Ali Shah Gilani, who has ties with Muslim groups in the United States and who has dropped from sight, police officials said. A9

U.S.-Philippines Operation
American and Filipino military officials appear to have resolved problems that threatened to delay joint operations against armed Muslims in the southern islands who are suspected of having ties to Al Qaeda. A9

False Trail in Anthrax Inquiry
Scientists and investigators investigating the deadly letters that were laced with anthrax have been on the wrong trail all along, the result of a clerical error involving the origin of the strain of the deadly germ. A11

NATIONAL A12-24

Bush, Focusing on Terror, Says Security Is Priority
President Bush, delivering his first State of the Union address, told Americans that "our war against terror is only beginning" and sent new warnings to terrorists around the world and to three nations -- Iran, Iraq and North Korea, who he said "constitute an axis of evil." A1

Shake-Up Follows Spy Inquiry
The director of the F.B.I., Robert S. Mueller III, has removed a senior counterintelligence official, Sheila Horan, over her handling of an investigation into suspicions of Chinese espionage, officials said. A1

President's Niece Arrested
Noelle Bush, 24, the daughter of Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, was arrested in Tallahassee and charged with prescription fraud after she illegally tried to obtain an antianxiety drug from a pharmacy, the police said. A12

Jailbreak in Southwest
The authorities set up roadblocks and searched the North Texas ranchland near the Oklahoma line for two convicted killers and two murder suspects who fled a county jail. A12

Flame Retardant Concerns
A chemical known as PBDE, which is used in foam furniture padding, is accumulating so rapidly in the breast milk of nursing mothers that environmentalists and some scientists are expressing concern, and Europe has moved to ban one form of it. A18

DINING F1-10

EDUCATION B8

Graduate Assistants' Contract
N.Y.U. and the United Auto Workers reached the first union agreement between a private university and its graduate assistants, a four-year deal that would raise stipends and provide health care benefits. B3

Black Scholar Joins Harvard
Harvard, which just lost a top black scholar to Princeton, hired Michael C. Dawson, a scholar of black politics from the University of Chicago. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Fire Commanders Recall System's Failures Sept. 11
Interviews with senior fire officials for an internal inquiry about the events of Sept. 11 show that commanders had little reliable radio communication, could not keep track of the firefighters entering the trade center and were unable to reach them as the danger of the twin towers' collapse became unmistakable. A1

Lt. Ella McNair became the first black woman to be promoted to fire officer in the New York City Fire Department, one of 20 promotions confirmed in a ceremony at department headquarters in Brooklyn. B2

Twelve Port Authority employees and five other people were charged with filing false claims and stealing money intended for Sept. 11 victims. B2

Business Security Plans
Businesses and corporations near the Midtown site of the World Economic Forum, which starts tomorrow, are busy preparing their own security and safety plans, though few will discuss them in specific terms. B4

Neediest Cases B6

SPORTS D1-7

No Boxing License for Tyson
The Nevada State Athletic Commission, voting 4 to 1, denied Mike Tyson a license to fight Lennox Lewis in Las Vegas on April 6. The officials focused on Tyson's failures in controlling his anger in and out of the ring. A1

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES B6-7

Bishop John R. McGann
The leader of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre, on Long Island, for more than 20 years, he was 77. B6

Michael P. Hammond
A composer and music expert who was confirmed as chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts last month, he was 69. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Enron Shredding Investigation
Enron acknowledged that until recently it contracted with commercial shredding companies to destroy company documents. The disclosure outraged a congressman whose subcommittee is investigating document destruction at Enron and its accounting firm, Arthur Andersen. Enron said the records were unrelated to inquiries into the company's collapse. A1

Concerns that accounting practices that led to Enron's downfall might afflict other companies led stocks sharply lower. The Dow lost 2.5 percent, the S.& P. 500 fell 2.86 percent and the Nasdaq lost 2.62 percent. C1

2 Tyco Officials Sell Stock
Two senior executives, L. Dennis Kozlowski, the chairman, and Mark Swartz, the chief financial officer, quietly disposed of more than $100 million in Tyco stock during the company's last fiscal year, despite public comments that they rarely if ever sold Tyco shares. C1

Change Atop I.B.M.
Louis V. Gerstner Jr. said he would step down as chief executive on March 1, to be succeeded by the president, Samuel J. Palmisano. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Mr. Bush's State of the Union; Davos on the Hudson; painless cost-cutting
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (88%); BACTERIA (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); POLITICS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); WAR ON TERROR (72%); ESPIONAGE (71%); AL-QAEDA (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); ARRESTS (70%); ANTHRAX (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (69%); RELIGION (66%); ISLANDS & REEFS (64%); MURDER (58%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (90%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); NIGERIA (92%); FRANCE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



910 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Foreign Minister Is Fired After Months of Feuding 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Wednesday, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi fired his foreign minister, Makiko Tanaka, on Tuesday, ending a tumultuous nine-month alliance in which two of Japan's most popular politicians tried to balance their reformist tactics in the same government.
 "I asked them if they were firing me, and the prime minister himself said yes," Ms. Tanaka said minutes after leaving a political meeting at Mr. Koizumi's residence. "The prime minister himself told me he was replacing me." 
 As the first woman to be Japan's foreign minister, Ms. Tanaka, 57, had won legions of followers by criticizing Japan's conservative old guard. But her constant feuding with bureaucrats made her a liability for Mr. Koizumi, who started the new year facing a worsening economic situation and a number of diplomatic challenges.
Her firing was seen by political analysts and voters alike as a sign that Mr. Koizumi was giving in to the conservative old guard in an effort to stabilize his weakening government. But Ms. Tanaka's departure could actually undermine Mr. Koizumi, alienating her supporters and leaving the prime minister and the ailing economy in the spotlight. 
In early trading today, the bellwether Nikkei average of the Tokyo Stock Exchange fell below 10,000 for the first time since Nov. 13. Market analysts attributed the drop in part to political uncertainty surrounding the Koizumi government.
A year ago, Ms. Tanaka was Japan's most popular politician, based on public opinion polls. But by the time a conference was held here last week on Afghan aid, she had been reduced to a figurehead.
This morning, Japanese newspapers speculated that Mr. Koizumi would try to tap another woman as foreign minister, Sadako Ogata, who won high praise as the co-chairwoman of the aid conference. Ms. Ogata, a Ford Foundation fellow who spends much of her time in New York, served for 10 years as the United Nations high commissioner for refugees.
After the roller coaster of Ms. Tanaka's tenure -- in which she was involved in controversies over government leaks, fired secretaries and a missed imperial garden party -- many Japanese say a professional is needed to run foreign policy.
During her time in office, Ms. Tanaka had complained that bureaucrats had cut her out of the flow of information, had not told her about meetings and had isolated her in an office that contained no international newspapers, foreign language dictionaries or even a map of the world. 
Mr. Koizumi's decision to change foreign ministers comes just as a number of world leaders are arriving to do business with Japan. On Friday, Igor Ivanov, Russia's foreign minister, is to arrive here in an effort to break a half-century old logjam over four islands occupied by Russia and claimed by Japan. Ms. Tanaka had publicly criticized Mr. Koizumi's approach to the issue, which has prevented Japan from signing a peace treaty with Russia, sealing the end of World War II.
On Feb. 17, President Bush is to come here for a two-day visit. Much of the visit is expected to revolve around American concern over Japan's worsening economy. On Tuesday, the government reported that unemployment rose to 5.6 percent in December after a 7.9 percent fall in industrial production last year.
In May and June, the World Cup soccer championship is take place in Japan and South Korea, two countries that often have complicated relations because of Japan's occupation of the Korean peninsula in the first half of the 20th century. Relations with China, Japan's new economic rival, will also be in the spotlight this year as a series of events are to mark 30 years since the nations reestablished diplomatic ties.
It was Ms. Tanaka's father, Kakuei Tanaka, who renewed ties with China in 1972 when he was prime minister. 
Also fired on Tuesday night was Vice Foreign Minister Yoshiji Nogami, the ministry's top civil servant.
The two had contradicted each other in the national Parliament, the Diet, in recent days over the participation of two nongovernmental Japanese organizations in the conference on Afghan aid. The clash, with accusations of lying, pushed Ms. Tanaka to the point of tears in a television interview on Friday.
The incident further escalated when Prime Minister Koizumi responded: "Tears are women's greatest weapons. When women cry, men cannot compete with them."
In response, 18 female opposition members of the Diet went to the premier's residence on Tuesday to show solidarity with Ms. Tanaka, a member since 1993. They said in a statement, "The prime minister has biased views on women's expressions, anger and grief."
In a move that may dent his popularity -- a 72 percent approval rating in a poll released last weekend -- Mr. Koizumi said that he was too busy to receive the women because he was working on a supplemental budget.
An hour after the lower house passed the $19 billion budget additions, Mr. Koizumi summoned Ms. Tanaka to his residence and fired her and Mr. Nogami.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Makiko Tanaka, shown last week in Tokyo, was fired yesterday from her post as Japan's foreign minister. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); POLITICS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); WOMEN (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); REFUGEES (65%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO; TANAKA, MAKIKO (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



911 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Puerto Rico Journal; 
It's Good Talk, but Bad Language

BYLINE:  By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R., Jan. 25 

 BODY:
Juan Manuel Garcia-Passalacqua is a political analyst, a newspaper columnist and a professor. He graduated from Harvard Law School, has written more than a dozen books on politics and was an adviser on Latin America and the Caribbean in the Carter White House.
 But every morning this 65-year-old grandfather of six turns into a no-holds-barred radio talk show host so foul-mouthed, so crude, that objection comes even from his wife of four decades, Ivonne Acosta, who says she has not listened to the show for over a year. 
 "I don't listen to it so we don't fight," said Ms. Acosta, herself a historian and university professor. "I use cuss words in private, but it offends me when I hear them on the radio. The mocking and the insults, I don't go along with that." 
While many disapprove and tune out, many more keep listening, even if that means blushing. After three years on the air throughout Puerto Rico, Mr. Garcia-Passalacqua's show, "Analyzing With Juanma," on the Noti-Uno radio network, beats all AM competitors in its time slot, 9 to 10 a.m. weekdays. He divides the show between his commentary on the day's headlines and taking calls from listeners, many of whom seem torn: wanting to hear the message of so well informed a source, yet wanting to kill the messenger for the way he delivers it.
"I want to ask you, as the mother of a 6-year-old, to change your vocabulary," a woman told him recently in one of the many calls he gets from people taking him to task for his expletives and vulgar colloquialisms. "You're an intelligent man. You know you don't have to go that far."
Despite some listeners' threats to complain to the government, Mr. Garcia-Passalacqua says he has yet to hear a word from the F.C.C.
His radio persona -- which frequently takes aim at local corruption and the island's commonwealth status, among other targets -- evolved not as a ratings gimmick, he says, but out of frustration. For decades he advocated sovereignty for Puerto Rico (though with ties to the United States, including a right to dual citizenship) in books and the language of an educated elite, and "I achieved nothing." Now, he says, he is using the vernacular of the masses to reach those on the margins of Puerto Rico's economic and political life, "a population that votes blindly."
"I want the average citizen to join in the search for a solution to Puerto Rico's colonial situation," he said. "I have not convinced them, but I have grabbed them." 
Some defend Mr. Garcia-Passalacqua's regular use of obscenities, agreeing with him that the end justifies what he sees as effective means. Others say a creeping intrusion of foul language, not only on radio but occasionally on television and in newspapers as well, reflects a general deterioration of standards.
"It's a product of the economic difficulties in Puerto Rico," said Jaime L. Rodriguez-Cancel, academic dean at the Center for Advanced Studies of Puerto Rico and the Caribbean, an independent graduate school where Mr. Garcia-Passalacqua teaches and is widely supported. "Unemployment grows, and people find only minimum-wage jobs. The problems of drugs, money laundering, corruption, the underground economy, all this affects social behavior."
Whatever the cause, and whatever his good intentions, many Puerto Ricans remain stunned that his kind of on-air language comes from someone with the stature of Mr. Garcia-Passalacqua.
At the Center for Advanced Studies, where he is teaching a doctoral course this semester on United States military policy in 20th-century Puerto Rico, students describe him as a rigorous, well-organized professor with a vast knowledge of his subject and personal insights from his political experiences, including appointments as legal counsel and chief aide to two Puerto Rican governors in the 1960's. 
Yet on his show he has called the governor of Puerto Rico, Sila M. Calderon, "the old woman" and much worse, and last October accused her of adultery with a cabinet member. (The governor, who is in the midst of divorce proceedings, refused to comment on the remarks other than to call them "disrespectful," and even her estranged husband came to her defense.)
All this notwithstanding, Mr. Garcia-Passalacqua is evidently not altogether comfortable with his dual role. He has tried to make a distinction between Juanma, the irascible political analyst, and Professor Garcia-Passalacqua, the teacher who pops up on the show once a week to lecture in what he calls "la escuelita," the little school.
"It's an ethical sacrifice," he said of his radio alter ego. "I would have liked to end my career as the doctoral professor who taught at Yale. It seems absurd, but my country is asking me for something else."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Juan Manuel Garcia-Passalacqua -- Harvard Law School graduate, former White House adviser, current professor -- is an incongruity on his weekday radio show: user of language so coarse his own wife won't listen. (Laura Magruder for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HISTORY (78%); WRITERS (78%); CITIZENSHIP (50%) RADIO; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (58%) NAVARRO, MIREYA; GARCIA-PASSALACQUA, JUAN MANUEL (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (96%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) PUERTO RICO

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



912 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Neighbors of Economic Forum Prepare for the Worst 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER 

 BODY:
The Gap is dusting off its policy manual for store managers, with guidance for handling mayhem at the door. Starbucks is working with the police so cappuccinos can be dispensed and consumed in safety. Citicorp has called in Labrador retrievers.
 Fearful of being the targets of vandalism, large corporations near the site of the World Economic Forum are taking those and other defensive steps as the conference draws near -- it starts tomorrow at the Waldorf-Astoria at 301 Park Avenue, in Midtown Manhattan. 
 The New York Police Department and other law enforcement agencies are preparing to close off streets and deploy thousands of officers for the meeting, and nearby businesses are busy with their own security and safety plans, although few would talk about them in specific terms.
Starbucks, which suffered vandalism at previous economic conferences, has eight stores near the Waldorf-Astoria and a total of 122 in Manhattan. The Gap, a past target of peaceful protests, is bracing for a demonstration tomorrow at a store at 54th Street and Fifth Avenue.
Citicorp, at 399 Park Avenue and 53rd Street on the route of a Saturday march planned by demonstrators, has called in dogs that have been trained to sniff for explosives, said Ron Bellistri, the chief executive of Copstat Security Inc., which provides security for the bank.
Holding the economic conference in New York has raised myriad security concerns for a city that, since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, has found ways to manage public order during big events like the World Series and United Nations meetings.
The economic conference will present problems that are, in some ways, more manageable than past threats, like the possibility of terrorism at the New Year's celebration for the millennium. "In the millennium, we did not have a clearly identifiable group," Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said recently. "It was a threat, but the threat was not easily defined; it was general. Here, we know that there are activists that come to these things who are out to cause a problem, so it is more specific things in that sense."
The protesters, mainly from labor, environmental and student movements critical of the growing global power of multinational corporations, are promising only peaceful demonstrations. Anarchists say that some radical elements, though, have said they do not consider property destruction -- like breaking store windows without injuring people -- to be violence.
Norman Siegel, a civil rights lawyer and the director of the Freedom, Legal Defense and Education Project who plans to be on the streets in the coming days as a legal observer, said property destruction must be viewed as breaking the law.
He added, "Some of the corporate executives might want to sit down and listen to some of the peaceful protesters' grievances to begin a dialogue."
Though no plywood boards could be seen going up in street level windows yesterday, the view from the front steps of the Waldorf-Astoria, between 49th and 50th Streets, was a corporate panorama: banks and other financial institutions to the north and, to the south, more brokerages and banks, a Starbucks store, the logo of the MetLife building and the rear of Grand Central Terminal, with its high-end shops.
As for security at the Waldorf-Astoria itself, Shelley Clark, a spokeswoman, would not discuss it other than to say that "clearly there is concern."
When the conferees seek to navigate the streets outside the Waldorf-Astoria, at least 100 of them will be passengers in new Audi automobiles driven by armed retired and active law enforcement officers. When they get to their cocktail parties or other soirees, armed guards will be mingling among them, said John F. Timoney -- a former deputy New York police commissioner and now chief executive of Beau Dietl & Associates, which will be handling some security during the conference. 
Not all the preparations anticipate violence. At St. Bartholomew's Church, the Rev. William M. Tully, the rector, said he planned to keep the church's doors open to provide a refuge for any who may need it, be they anarchists or Fifth Avenue power shoppers. "Our building manager has been meeting with the police for weeks, and we are trying to learn everything we can," Father Tully said. "Part of our calling is to be a church that is open and accessible to everyone."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Solnit, a globalization opponent, yesterday with a protest prop, a face with the words "Global Justice Not Corporate Rule." (Edward Keating/The New York Times) Map of New York City higlighting area of Economic Forum: A variety of outlets of capitalism in the blocks near the conference hotel. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); VANDALISM (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DOGS (78%); RIOTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); TERRORISM (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; VANDALISM 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (84%); COPSTAT SECURITY INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%)

PERSON: BAKER, AL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



913 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Tyson Has Only Himself to Blame for Turndown

BYLINE:  By DAVE ANDERSON 

 BODY:
INSTEAD of his usual hip-hop clothes, Mike Tyson was wearing his most sincere suit -- gray with a white shirt and a gray tie.
 "I'm no Mother Teresa," he told the five members of the Nevada State Athletic Commission, "but I'm not Charles Manson either." 
 But they knew he was Mike Tyson, and that was enough. In a 4-to-1 vote, the commission denied the license that would have allowed the 35-year-old former champion to challenge Lennox Lewis for two-thirds of the world heavyweight title in a bout that had been planned for April 6 at the MGM Grand hotel-casino in Las Vegas. 
Tyson has only himself to blame -- not merely for last week's melee with Lewis at a news conference, but also for so many other incidents, notably biting Evander Holyfield's ears and touching off the MGM Grand casino riot that followed that 1997 bout; his 1992 rape conviction, and the possibility of a new rape charge in Las Vegas.
"The patterns," the commissioner Amy Ayoub said at one point, "of uncontrolled violent behavior."
Tyson pleaded that the planned April 6 bout would be the "most important moment of his life" in boxing. But the commission, often accused of being a conduit for Nevada's gambling industry, decided yesterday that Tyson was more trouble than the multimillions of dollars he would have been worth to the MGM Grand and the Las Vegas economy.
In rejecting Tyson during the nation's economic recession when Las Vegas needs all the millions it can get, the commission showed something seldom seen in boxing: integrity.
Now the search begins for another site. And be assured that this Lewis-Tyson fight will resurface at another site. If not in another state, then elsewhere in the world.
With so many millions involved, if a state commission can't justify licensing Tyson, the promoters (Main Events and Mike Tyson Enterprises) and their pay-per-view partners (HBO and Showtime) will take the fight to any European, Asian or African country that will sanction it and can afford it.
Without a Las Vegas site, the guarantees elsewhere probably won't match the $17.5 million that Lewis and Tyson each would have received if the fight had remained at the MGM Grand.
In recent years, virtually all the big fights, especially those for the heavyweight title, have been held in Las Vegas because the hotel-casinos there can afford it. They invite their high rollers, usually those with at least a $50,000 credit line, to arrive for the weekend with complimentary rooms and ringside tickets. The hotel counts on the probability of recouping its investment in the fight from the high rollers' losses in the casino.
But in the perverse way that often adds to the appeal of boxing, the controversy over Tyson's license in Nevada will probably add to the worldwide attraction of a Lewis-Tyson bout.
Boxing has no borders. Muhammad Ali, you may remember, couldn't get a license anywhere in the United States after losing to Larry Holmes in 1980, but the Bahamas welcomed him.
In a ring surrounded by wooden grandstands on a baseball field near Nassau in the Bahamas, Ali was dominated by Trevor Berbick in a 10-round decision in 1981, the sad finale to a sparkling 21-year career that began shortly after he won an Olympic gold medal in Rome.
When the bell does ring somewhere for the Lewis-Tyson bout, Lewis, the two-thirds champion as the holder of the World Boxing Council and International Boxing Federation belts, will be the favorite.
If Lewis is aggressive early, he could register a quick knockout because Tyson will be in range of Lewis's right hand. But even if Lewis controls the pace, Tyson's power gives him a puncher's chance.
Against Francois Botha, a valid heavyweight contender, three years ago, Tyson lost the first four rounds. In the fifth, his left hook knocked out Botha.
Since then, Tyson has fought only five times -- knockouts of Julius Francis in England, Lou Savarese in Scotland and Brian Nielsen in Denmark as well as no-contests with Orlin Norris in Las Vegas and Andrew Golota in Auburn Hills, Mich. In his seven-round knockout of Nielsen last Oct. 13, Tyson weighed 239 pounds, the heaviest of his 49-3 career, with 43 knockouts.
Mike Tyson is now more of a carnival act than a boxer, but wherever this fight with Lennox Lewis resurfaces, the curious won't be able to resist watching pay-per-view to see if the carnival act has one punch left.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Tyson talked with his manager, Shelly Finkel. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); BOXING (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); CASINOS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); RIOTS (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (67%); PAY PER VIEW (65%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) BOXING 

COMPANY: MGM GRAND HOTEL LLC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (56%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%)

PERSON: TYSON, MIKE; AYOUB, AMY; ANDERSON, DAVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEVADA

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



914 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: 17 Are Charged in Theft of Sept. 11 Funds 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT F. WORTH 

 BODY:
Twelve employees of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and five others were charged yesterday with filing false claims and stealing money intended for victims of the Sept. 11 attack from a government agency and charities, the authorities said.
 All but one of the Port Authority employees were in the World Trade Center at the time of the attack, but all escaped safely and suffered no financial hardship as a result, the Manhattan district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, said at a news conference yesterday. 
 The employees, who have all resigned or been suspended since the investigation began, got $19,581 from the American Red Cross and Safe Horizon after filing claims stating that they had become unemployed because of the attack, he said. 
The fraud was discovered after a Port Authority union representative blew the whistle on several employees, prompting the agency to begin an investigation, said Robert E. Van Etten, the inspector general of the Port Authority. Four of the 12 employees charged yesterday then came forward voluntarily, he added.
Four other people were charged separately yesterday with stealing $20,697 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency by falsely claiming their apartments were damaged during the attacks. Three of them are related, and the fourth is a family friend, Mr. Morgenthau said. Another person who works for a Long Island real estate leasing company that does not have offices in the trade center was charged with filing a forged letter from her employer to apply for benefits from the state workers' compensation fund and Safe Horizon.
Mr. Van Etten said the agency was reviewing the records of its 7,500 employees to check for possible fraud. The district attorney's office is also investigating about 50 other people -- most of them not Port Authority employees -- who may also have filed false claims, Mr. Morgenthau said.
Yesterday's arrests bring the number of Port Authority employees charged with making false claims in connection with the attack to 24. In November, 12 cafeteria workers employed by the Port Authority were arrested on charges that they stole more than $14,000 in disaster relief money from the American Red Cross by falsely claiming that they had lost their jobs because of the attack. Three of those charged yesterday were also cafeteria workers.
"We take these charges seriously and may ask for jail sentences," Mr. Morgenthau said. The defendants are accused of falsifying business records and other felonies that are punishable by up to seven years in prison.
Cheryl M. Ivery and Beverly Jones, two Port Authority accounting clerks who were charged yesterday, said after their arraignments that they had been injured during the attack and had not made false claims.
"The Red Cross said I was eligible," Ms. Jones said. She said she had injured her leg in the attack, and had resigned from her job in early October, shortly after applying for assistance. She got $1,500 from the Red Cross, she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); FELONIES (78%); ARRESTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HIJACKING (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); DISASTER RELIEF (72%); SENTENCING (71%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (71%); LEASING INDUSTRY (71%); COUNTERFEITING (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); RENTAL PROPERTY (66%); PROPERTY LEASES (66%); WORKERS COMPENSATION INSURANCE FUNDS (64%); ETHICS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ETHICS 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (83%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (82%) PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY; FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY; AMERICAN RED CROSS; SAFE HORIZON (CHARITY) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%)

PERSON: WORTH, ROBERT F 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



915 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
AMERICAN AIRLINES TO RESUME 41 FLIGHTS AT DALLAS HUB

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 American Airlines said yesterday it is restoring 41 roundtrip flights from Dallas-Fort Worth, and beginning service from Oakland, Calif., to Kennedy Airport in New York. 
Hit by the recession and the terrorist attacks, American had a $798 million loss in the fourth quarter, but it also has seen a steady increase in passengers, though still far below pre-Sept. 11 levels. American, a unit of AMR, said the new flights from Dallas-Fort Worth would connect to 37 destinations. American also said it would offer two daily nonstop flights from Oakland to J.F.K. beginning on March 2. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TERRORISM (87%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (85%); COMPANY LOSSES (84%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NYC) 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) DALLAS (TEX); OAKLAND (CALIF); NEW YORK CITY; FORT WORTH (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



916 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
Even Grief Can't Stop This Protest

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
THE words have formed a national mantra since the planes hit the twin towers: or else the terrorists will have won. Take a trip somewhere, or else the terrorists will have won. Go to a ballgame, or else the terrorists will have won. Give Jean-Georges Vongerichten all your money for a meal, or else the terrorists will have won.
 So perhaps no one should be surprised that the message is being taken to heart as well by the anarchists, environmentalists, socialists, unionists, cultists and other -ists about to descend on New York to protest against the World Economic Forum, starting tomorrow. The -ists demonstrated at many such events long before Sept. 11. Why change now? 
 "It's an insult to New Yorkers to think that there's anything wrong with counterprotest," Eric Laursen said yesterday, speaking for a group called Another World Is Possible. "This is a city that tolerates dissent. This is a city that tolerates protest and contrary ideas. Always has, always will."
"To think that New Yorkers will somehow think this is inappropriate is insulting to the character of the city," Mr. Laursen said at a news conference held by anti-forum groups at the Community Church of New York, on East 35th Street.
He had a point. Robust dissent, despite the previous mayor's attempts to stamp it out, has a long tradition in this town. Have New Yorkers become such milquetoasts since Sept. 11 that a few days of protest will give them a bout of the vapors? Not likely.
But that doesn't mean they are somehow obliged to embrace the protesters expected to fill Midtown streets and, if the past is a guide, clash with the police. After all that the city has been through in the last few months, many people are asking, Who needs this?
It would seem that New York risks falling victim to self-indulgence, on the part of both the panjandrums who will meet at the Waldorf-Astoria and any of the protesters ready to turn violent.
The forum's sponsors say that the reason for moving here from their usual watering hole in Davos, Switzerland, is to show solidarity with the battered city. But they also know that everywhere these get-togethers take place -- Davos, Seattle, Genoa, Melbourne -- the demonstrators, like Mary's lamb, are sure to go. Given the high incidence of violence in recent years, what favor do they think they are doing us?
True, the participants will fill hotel rooms and restaurant seats that would otherwise be empty. That is welcome. But it is hard to see how the city's economy will be turned around by a few hundred rich people fighting over the weekend to get into Alain Ducasse's place. These are men and women who are paying $25,000 each to rub elbows at the Waldorf over the next few days. Surely they can speak to anyone they want at any time simply by picking up the phone. Couldn't they have saved themselves the money, and the rest of us the potential headache?
THE dissenters, by the way, do not buy the solidarity-with-the-city line. "It's a way of trying to manipulate the grief and the mourning that we all feel," said David Graeber, from a group called Anti-Capitalist Convergence.
But listening to the speakers at the Community Church, you'd have thought that all anyone ever tried to do at past protests was to hand out milk and cookies. Violence? What violence? The police instigate it and the news media exaggerate it: that was a recurring theme yesterday.
The perfidy of the police and the press outraged one woman, who gave her name as Starhawk, representing a group called the Pagan Cluster. Starhawk (you think maybe she worked for Henry Stern at the Parks Department?) complained about a "level of police violence directed against demonstrators that far outweighs any possible breaking of windows."
"There is no secret cabal of violent thugs in this movement," she said in a voice quavering with emotion. "There are people in this movement who are angry, and have a right to be, because the level of injustice in this world is so great."
Perhaps it is. But so is the level of weariness in this city, a point apparently recognized by Mr. Laursen when he allowed that, among protesters, "the feeling has been that this is not the time to be overly confrontational."
It would be nice, most New Yorkers would probably agree, if everyone acted on that feeling this weekend -- the demonstrators, the police, the forum participants. Maybe we will yet dodge a bullet. Still, doesn't part of you wish that we could have snagged the Super Bowl instead? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HIJACKING (78%); MAYORS (78%); RIOTS (75%); AIRLINES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (56%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%)

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (74%) UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



917 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Number of Aspiring Teachers Rises

BYLINE:  By Abby Goodnough 

 BODY:
 Applications for the New York City Teaching Fellows program are up sharply compared with last winter, a change due partly to the economic downturn, Board of Education officials say. 
The program, which recruits professionals with no teaching experience to work in low-performing schools, has received 4,411 applications for September, more than four times the number at this time last year. Some applicants have lost jobs in the corporate world; others say they were inspired to find more meaningful work after Sept. 11. The application deadline is March 1. Abby Goodnough

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (85%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



918 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Trading Company Plans Sharp Cutbacks 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
By turning to drastic measures to salvage some sort of future for itself, the Nissho Iwai Corporation may have marked a crucial watershed today in the evolution of corporate Japan.
 The company, whose name is little known outside the country, is one of Japan's Big Six general trading companies, the fulcrums of the keiretsu, or business groups, that built the country's postwar prosperity. But the trading companies' day is passing, leaving Nissho Iwai and its peers searching for a new role and struggling under the immense debts they still bear from the old one. 
 Nissho Iwai said today that it would embark on a three-year program of deep job cuts and sweeping asset sales to reduce debt and try to make itself profitable again. Coming on the heels of the overhaul announced by the giant Japanese retailer Daiei two weeks ago, Nissho Iwai's move hints at a more vigorous approach to cleaning up problems at the country's largest and most indebted companies. 
Nissho Iwai owes some 2.4 trillion yen ($18 billion). With its stock limping along near its historic low of 59 yen (44 cents) a share, the company's debt-to-equity ratio is more than 1,400 percent, a level that would sink most American companies.
But Nissho Iwai, like Daiei, has some forgiving creditors, including UFJ Bank and Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, which kept advancing funds well after Japan's stock and property bubbles burst more than a decade ago. Unlike Daiei, Nissho Iwai has not asked its main banks to forgive any of its debts.
Instead, the company hopes to slash its interest-bearing debt over the next three years by 45 percent, to 1.3 trillion yen ($9.7 billion), by selling about two-fifths of its 540 subsidiaries and affiliates and by eliminating more than one-quarter of its work force. Management hopes that the plan will raise the company's credit rating back up to an investment grade, reducing financing costs further.
"It's our survival plan to win against the competition," Yasutake Shiro, Nissho Iwai's chief executive, said today. "We are going to say sayonara to our policy of putting ourselves first and pay more attention to our customers and rivals."
Fighting for survival is nothing new for the company. Its debt load was an even more staggering 3.1 trillion yen ($23.2 billion) in early 1999, and it has been gradually selling subsidiaries and trimming jobs since then; the new plan greatly expands and accelerates those efforts.
What the plan does not do is address the erosion of the trading-company business model. For decades after World War II, trading companies were essential intermediaries between manufacturers and foreign customers, providing financing and a route around capital controls that fostered exports and limited imports. Though they eventually branched out into other businesses, at the core these companies were essentially banks specializing in short-term loans. Like Japanese banks, they lent money based on corporate relationships rather than on risk and return.
"The trading companies misjudged the risk level of their assets," said Matt Aizawa, an analyst at Merrill Lynch in Tokyo, "so when some of them started going bad, their equity disappeared." 
Japanese banks' problem loans tend to be to other Japanese companies, like contractors, retailers and land developers, but the trading companies are also exposed overseas. They have often provided financing for gas pipelines, mining and oil exploration connected to their commodity trading.
In the last few years, they have also pumped money into telecommunications carriers. The slump in that industry came back to burn the Marubeni Corporation, another big trading firm, when Global Crossing filed for bankruptcy in the United States on Monday; Marubeni owns half of Asia Crossing, Global's Japanese unit. Marubeni has a debt-to-equity ratio more than twice that of the leading trading companies: Mitsui, Mitsubishi and Sumitomo.
The trading companies' market has eroded as manufacturers that used to need help have built plants overseas to serve markets directly. 
"Trading companies are the best example of companies that have lost their reason for being," said Michael Petit, chief criteria officer at Standard & Poor's in Tokyo. "Through the 1980's, they were Japan's windows to the world. Now they are trying to reinvent themselves."
To do that, the trading companies are merging and swapping divisions. Nissho Iwai and Mitsubishi, for instance, have agreed to combine their steel trading divisions.
Sensing that trading houses like Nissho Iwai, Marubeni, Tomen and Nichimen may not have the wherewithal to reinvent themselves while paying down debts, investors have pushed their stocks down into the low-prestige range of 100 yen or less.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 2, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business on Wednesday about the struggles of Japan's large trading companies misstated the connection between one, the Marubeni Corporation, and Asia Global Crossing, a unit of Global Crossing, the United States telecommunications company. Through a subsidiary, Marubeni is a partner in two joint ventures with Asia Global Crossing; it does not own half of the company.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Heavily in Debt"Trading companies, crucial to Japan's postwar development, now find themselves struggling with huge debts and out of favor with investors. Nissho IwaiDEBT BURDEN*: 2,170%12-MONTH CHANGE IN SHARE PRICE: -37.6% MarubeniDEBT BURDEN*: 1,10012-MONTH CHANGE IN SHARE PRICE: -65.8 ItochuDEBT BURDEN*: 1,05012-MONTH CHANGE IN SHARE PRICE: -44.3 MitsubishiDEBT BURDEN*: 51012-MONTH CHANGE IN SHARE PRICE: -3.6 SumitomoDEBT BURDEN*: 50012-MONTH CHANGE IN SHARE PRICE: -23.2 MitsuiDEBT BURDEN*: 46012-MONTH CHANGE IN SHARE PRICE: +7.0 *Debt at the start of the fiscal year (March 31, 2001), including off-balance-sheet guarantees, as a percentage of equity.(Source: Merrill Lynch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE DEBT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); RETAILERS (69%); TRENDS (67%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); WORLD WAR II (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: SOJITZ CORP (95%); MO TEC CORP (92%); DAIEI INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: NISSHO IWAI CO 

TICKER: 2768 (TSE) (95%); 9961 (TSE) (92%); 8263 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424410 GENERAL LINE GROCERY MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS423860 TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (EXCEPT MOTOR VEHICLE) MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS325212 SYNTHETIC RUBBER MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (95%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (95%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (95%); SIC5088 TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES, EXCEPT MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); SIC2822 SYNTHETIC RUBBER (95%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (95%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (95%); NAICS423390 OTHER CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); SIC5039 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS, NEC (92%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (83%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (83%) SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES; 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN; 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



919 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Data For Quarter Is Delayed ByWilliams 

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
The Williams Companies said yesterday that it was delaying the release of its fourth-quarter results to complete an assessment of the financial health of the Williams Communications Group, the telecommunications company Williams spun off as an independent business in April.
 At issue is a total of about $2.2 billion of Williams Communications debt and fiber optic leases for which Williams may be responsible. 
 When Williams Communications became a public entity, the Williams Companies said it would assume those liabilities if Williams Communications defaulted on payments to bondholders or if its own credit rating fell below investment grade. In December, it said that at the suggestion of ratings agencies it planned to eliminate those triggers. 
Williams Communications remains current on its bond payments. And ratings by Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's on the Williams Companies' outstanding long-term bonds are two notches above high-yield, or junk bond, status. 
The Williams Companies has said it will sell shares to repay Williams Communications debt, if necessary, thereby diluting its existing shares. 
These facts have been known for many months, but investors reacted harshly yesterday, pushing the price of the Williams Companies stock down $5.36, or 22 percent, to $18.78.
And the news rocked the entire oil and natural gas sector. Stocks in pipeline companies like El Paso, Kinder Morgan and Dynegy all traded lower, in some cases by more than $2 a share. 
Monday's decision by Global Crossing to file for bankruptcy almost certainly heightened concerns about the health of Williams Communications. And the stain from the collapse of Enron, a former energy trading rival of the Williams Companies, continues to spread. 
"We need to fully value our potential obligations," Steven J. Malcolm, Williams's president and chief executive, said in a conference call with analysts. 
"We have valued these obligations every quarter since the spinoff," he said, "but recent events have caused us to re-evaluate our obligations, including Global Crossing's bankruptcy filing and our previously announced plans to eliminate triggers on our debt obligations, particularly the $1.4 billion obligation to Williams Communications." 
Williams, which is based in Tulsa, Okla., said its review of Williams Communications would be completed in a few weeks. 
Analysts said the reaction among investors was overblown. 
"None of this has happened yet," said Curt N. Launer, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. 
"There is no doubt that Williams Communications does not represent a pretty picture to Williams," Mr. Launer said. "But it is not a done deal that Williams Communications is going to fail." 
The Williams Companies still owns about 4 percent of Williams Communications. The SBC Corporation, which has outsourced all of its long-distance operations to Williams Communications, also has a small equity stake. 
Carole M. Coale, an analyst at Prudential Securities in Houston, said that if the Williams Companies were to issue equity to cover its obligations to Williams Communications, "it would dilute earnings by a little less than 20 percent" in 2002. 
"Even though this contingency was detailed in all their Securities and Exchange Commission reports and at analyst conferences," Ms. Coale added, "the possibility they would bring a portion of that liability on the balance sheet was in the stock."
Still, some analysts said Williams was likely to take some sort of charge for its exposure to Williams Communications.
"They are going to write off a significant part, in the sense that it will be in the hundreds of millions," said Anatol Feygin, a vice president at J. P. Morgan. 
Although it delayed its final fourth-quarter figures, Williams said it expected to have recurring earnings of $2.35 a share for 2001, a figure that includes a 12-cent charge for credit exposure related to Enron's bankruptcy. For all of 2000, the pipeline and energy trading company had recurring earnings of $2.33 a share. 
In his discussion with analysts, Mr. Malcolm said that in 2002 he expected the company to earn $2.65 to $2.75 a share. 
Mr. Feygin, who downgraded Williams shares to market perform yesterday, said he did not agree with the forecast. "We don't see how they can come close to the forecast," he said. "We are at $2.20 a share because the deal flow in their energy marketing and trading business is going to be slower and the economics per deal are going to be worse than they were a year ago." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (75%); FIBER OPTICS (72%); ENERGY MARKETS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (70%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) FINANCES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: WILLIAMS COS INC (93%); AT&T INC (84%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%); WILLIAMS COMMUNICATIONS GROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%); KINDER MORGAN INC (54%); DYNEGY INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WILLIAMS COMPANIES 

TICKER: WMB (NYSE) (93%); T (NYSE) (84%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); KMI (NYSE) (54%); DYN (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (93%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (93%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (54%) SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES; SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: STEVEN J MALCOLM (58%) GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (52%) OKLAHOMA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



920 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Merck Intends to Spin Off Unit That Manages Drug Plans 

BYLINE:  By MELODY PETERSEN and MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Merck & Company, faced with a slumping stock price and stalled earnings growth, said yesterday that it would shed a business that generates more than half its sales but just a fraction of its profits. 
 Raymond V. Gilmartin, Merck's chairman and chief executive, said that the company would spin off part of Merck-Medco, the unit that manages drug plans for employers, in an initial public offering as early as this summer, and sell the remainder of business over the following 12 months. 
 Merck did not say how much it expected to get for Medco, but analysts speculated that it could sell for anywhere from $6 billion to $15 billion. Merck paid $6.6 billion for Medco when it acquired the company in 1993. 
Pharmacy benefit managers like Medco play a critical role in determining which drugs people take for different ailments by offering financial incentives for consumers to select certain medicines. Merck-Medco has grown to be the nation's largest pharmacy benefit manager, filling 537 million prescriptions last year.
The business of managing drug plans has become increasingly controversial. Merck-Medco and two other large drug plan managers have been sued by several employers and drug plan members. The plaintiffs assert that the drug plan managers have a conflict of interest because employers pay them to keep drug costs down while drug companies pay them to promote their drugs, particularly the most costly ones. 
The political climate for drug plan managers is changing as well. Larry Feinberg, a partner in Oracle Partners, a health care hedge fund, predicted that "as the government starts paying more of the bills for Medicare patients' drugs, they're going to be scrutinizing" the activities of the drug plan managers more closely. 
In an interview, Mr. Gilmartin said Merck had decided that it had reached a point where its pharmaceutical operations and prescription management business were worth more to shareholders as two independent companies.
"Up to this point, both businesses were creating better value together than if they had been separate," Mr. Gilmartin said. "We believe the best way to enhance the success of both businesses going forward is to enable each one to pursue independently its unique and focused strategy."
While Medco now accounts for more than half of Merck's revenues, with roughly $26 billion of Merck's $48 billion in sales last year, it contributes very little to the drug company's bottom line. Medco accounts for just 10 percent of Merck's earnings per share, and its profit margins have been running at under 3 percent, according to Mark Striker, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney.
Mr. Gilmartin denied analysts' contentions that the sale was needed to help keep Merck as an independent company.
Instead, Mr. Gilmartin said, Merck would use the money from the sale to pay for small acquisitions and licensing deals, and he dismissed suggestions by analysts that the company would enter into any large transactions. "Our goal is to be one of the fastest-growing companies in the industry," Mr. Gilmartin said.
But Hemant K. Shah, an independent industry analyst in Warren, N.J., said he believed that a major merger between Merck and another large drug company was almost "inevitable."
Mr. Shah, who worked for Merck until the early 1980's, said that none of the medicines that Merck was developing appear to have the potential to replace Zocor, a cholesterol-fighting drug that is now the company's top seller, with $6.7 billion in sales in 2001. Zocor is expected to lose its patent protection in 2006.
In addition, Mr. Shah said, Merck is now spending about $2.9 billion on research -- far less than the $5.4 billion that Pfizer, the largest pharmaceutical company, plans to spend this year. "How do you compete?" Mr. Shah asked.
Merck's stock price has fallen roughly 28 percent over the last year as the company surprised analysts twice with news that sales would be lower than expected. Four of its brand name medicines recently lost their patent protection, causing sales to decline swiftly as generic companies began selling lower-priced versions. In addition, sales of Vioxx, Merck's new arthritis drug, fell in the fourth quarter after a study in The Journal of the American Medical Association this summer contended that both it and its competitor, Celebrex, might cause a higher risk of heart attacks. Merck has denied the study's finding. 
The company's stock rose 52 cents yesterday, however, closing at $57.52, even though the overall market declined sharply.
Merck, Eli Lilly and SmithKline Beecham all bought drug plan managers in 1993. At the time, managed care companies were increasingly influencing which drugs doctors prescribed, and President Bill Clinton's proposed health care plan was expected to accelerate that trend. By owning an essential part of the managed care system, the companies believed that they could help sway some prescriptions to their drugs.
But regulators, worried that patients and employers could be harmed, quickly forced the companies to keep their two businesses separate, eliminating much of the benefit in owning the drug managers. 
Both Lilly and SmithKline soon sold their pharmacy benefit managers at substantial losses, but Merck has held on to Medco. Eric Veiel, a health care analyst at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, said the Medco spinoff could be good for all the drug plan managers. He said the separation might relieve the industry of some of the scrutiny by government regulators that had often centered on Merck and Medco. 
The real value of Medco is not clear, analysts say, because Merck has disclosed little about Medco's operations for years. 
"There is such mystery behind Medco's profitability," said Stephen Scala, a pharmaceutical analyst at SG Cowen. Mr. Scala estimated that Merck's long-term rate of sales growth would fall to 5 percent from 10 percent with the spinoff. But because Medco's margins are so small, he said, there will be little impact on Merck's profits. 
James Lane, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, said Medco might eventually have a market capitalization of $25 billion to $30 billion, depending on how much of the parent company's debt is assigned to it.
Mr. Lane added that all drug plan managers might benefit from the current economic climate, with unemployment rising and health care costs "out of control."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Breaking Up"Merck is one of the leading prescription drug companies in the country and it owns the leading pharmacy benefit manager, Medco, but Merck is planning to spin off Medco because the businesses have not proven to be complementary. PHARMACY BENEFIT MANAGERSShare of annual prescription claims processed in 2001 MERCK-MEDCO: 28.7%ADVANCE PCS: 19.8EXPRESS SCRIPTS: 14.1CAREMARK: 7.3WELLPOINT: 5.1OTHERS: 25.0 LEADING PRESCRIPTION DRUG SELLERSIn the United States, for 12 months ended Sept. 2001 PfizerTOTAL SALES IN BILLIONS: $16.8 GlaxoSmithKlineTOTAL SALES IN BILLIONS: 14.6 MerckTOTAL SALES IN BILLIONS: 11.9 AstraZenecaTOTAL SALES IN BILLIONS: 9.5 Johnson & JohnsonTOTAL SALES IN BILLIONS: 9.4 Bristol-MyersTOTAL SALES IN BILLIONS: 9.3 PharmaciaTOTAL SALES IN BILLIONS: 7.2 LillyTOTAL SALES IN BILLIONS: 6.9 American Home PoductsTOTAL SALES IN BILLIONS: 6.7 NovartisTOTAL SALES IN BILLIONS: 6.6(Source: IMS Health; Destsche Bank Alex. Brown) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACY BENEFITS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ACQUISITIONS (74%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (73%); MEDICARE (70%); LITIGATION (66%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (98%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MERCK & CO INC; MERCK-MEDCO MANAGED CARE INC 

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (98%); MRK (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%) SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: GILMARTIN, RAYMOND V; PETERSEN, MELODY; FREUDENHEIM, MILT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



921 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Mayor to Speak of Education and Development 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
In his first address to the City Council today, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg plans to call for dissolving local school boards in favor of mayoral control of the Board of Education, and will propose several economic development projects for the city, many of them outside Lower Manhattan, his aides say. 
 The mayor, who in his inaugural address called for elected officials and city agencies to follow his lead in cutting back their staffs and budgets, will begin to outline how he is trimming 20 percent from the mayor's office, said people with knowledge of the speech. He will also talk about other areas of government where he believes spending has gotten out of control. One area, apparently, is tort claims. 
 Mr. Bloomberg will hit upon broad themes of accountability, discipline and optimism, said his communications director, William Cunningham.
"The point will be that the city is resilient and strong and back," Mr. Cunningham said. "He will talk about partnerships with the City Council and the Legislature. He will talk about private-public partnerships and long-term projects."
Among the projects that Mr. Bloomberg is expected to allude to are economic development plans in Lower and Upper Manhattan, on Randalls Island, and in boroughs besides Manhattan. 
Mr. Bloomberg will also revisit a pet project he has envisioned -- a 311 telephone system that citizens could call with nonemergency concerns and be transferred to the appropriate city agency.
"He wants to make government more user-friendly for the citizenry," Mr. Cunningham said. Mr. Bloomberg has often talked about using technology to streamline, and cheapen, government functions.
Mr. Bloomberg, who in his inaugural address called for sacrifice in the face of a roughly $4 billion anticipated budget gap, will continue to urge government to scale back while keeping its sights on things like the development of Manhattan's West Side and the need to attract more conventions to the city.
But the mayor will probably save his strongest words for the subject of education, an area he has zeroed in on from the moment he took office. Mr. Bloomberg has already made his case to legislators that he would like to see the Board of Education put under his control, a goal the governor supports. The Legislature, which must approve such a move, has been open -- if guarded -- to his gestures. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg chatted with J. W. Marriott Jr. yesterday before a ceremony at the new Ritz-Carlton hotel at Battery Park. The mayor is to talk to the City Council today about development throughout the city. (Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); MAYORS (92%); SCHOOL BOARDS (91%); CITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (77%); TRENDS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); POLITICS (67%); TORTS (54%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); J WILLARD MARRIOTT JR (59%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



922 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 New Chief at I.B.M.
The board of I.B.M. named Samuel J. Palmisano its new chief executive. He will succeed Louis V. Gerstner Jr., who guided the company's turnaround. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Unlikely Heroes in Utah
Though charges have been refiled against them, two central figures in the Olympic bribery scandal that rocked Salt Lake City are emerging as unlikely hometown heroes as the Games draw near. PAGE A12

A Jumpy Europe Edges Right
European politics are moving to the right -- most strikingly in Germany, where Edmund Stoiber has ridden issues of economic and personal insecurity to a lead over Chancellor Gerhard Schroder in polls. PAGE A3

Israel Raids Arab Town
Israeli troops arrested a suspected militant in a town near Bethlehem, and Ariel Sharon felt growing pressure to protect Jerusalem. PAGE A8

Accusation in the Art World
A New York art dealer has been accused of dealing in artifacts illegally taken from Egypt in a case that has chilled the often-secretive world of antiquities. THE ARTS, PAGE E1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); SCANDALS (87%); BRIBERY (71%); ARMED FORCES (53%); ART DEALERS (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

INDUSTRY:  SIC7373 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: SAMUEL PALMISANO (73%); GERHARD SCHRODER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (77%) UTAH, USA (92%) ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (74%); EUROPE (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%); EGYPT (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



923 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE UNION: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
Surer Voice, Bigger Vision

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
The changes in George W. Bush as a leader over the last four months have been noticed across the nation and around the world, but tonight's State of the Union address showed how significantly his own conception of the presidency has evolved.
 In a forceful 50 minutes of plain speaking and moments of eloquence, Mr. Bush defined a more engaged and activist presidency, spurred by the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, the faltering economy and public concerns over the implosion of the Enron Corporation. 
 In doing so, Mr. Bush reached back to the language of Ronald Reagan and Franklin D. Roosevelt as he broadened the scope of his war on terrorism to include countries that not only harbor terrorists, but also sponsor terrorism and are trying to develop weapons of mass destruction that threaten American security. 
Mr. Bush's warnings seemed intended to put pressure on the countries he cited: North Korea, Iran and Iraq.
On more familiar domestic fronts, the president at least partly abandoned his laissez-faire view of government regulation in business, saying that oversight of corporate accounting should be stronger, not weaker. Though Mr. Bush did not mention Enron by name, he did not have to when he expressed outrage for the people hurt by the company's misleading financial statements.
"I ask Congress to enact new safeguards for 401(k) and pension plans," Mr. Bush said to applause. "Employees who have worked hard and saved all their lives should not have to risk losing everything if their company fails."
Mr. Bush delivered an almost Clintonesque promise to use the power of government to produce jobs and protect those without health insurance, a striking change from last year's inaugural address when he told Americans that "what you do is as important as anything government does."
He was mindful of the fate of his father, a president who was as popular after the 1991 Persian Gulf war as the son is now, but who lost re-election the next year because of a failure to tend to the economy. Thus, Mr. Bush tonight called for an array of government programs in areas identified with Democrats, like expanding health care coverage for the unemployed and creating a new corps of government-sponsored volunteers.
"This time of adversity" he said, offered "a moment we must seize to change our culture" and "through the gathering momentum of millions of acts of service and decency and kindness, I know we can overcome evil with greater good."
Mr. Bush also used his speech to expand the definition of foreign threats. First restating that the United States would pursue terrorists and the nations that harbored them, he added that it was essential to take on nations that develop weapons of mass death and cited Iraq, Iran and North Korea as countries he intended to contain or confront.
Though Mr. Bush made clear that fighting terrorism remained the focus of his presidency, he showed that the war he was most worried about winning was the one against the recession.
As the White House had promised, Mr. Bush's speech was split into what he sees as his three central tasks: winning the war against terrorism, protecting the nation from attacks and repairing the economy.
If the address did not have the drama of Mr. Bush's Sept. 20 speech in the same House chamber, when an untried president vowed to unleash the nation's military might against Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda, it was still a marked change from the first major speech he made as president to Congress only 11 months ago.
That speech, a Feb. 27 address similar to a State of the Union but without the formal title, was delivered after only five weeks in office by a more tentative president who had staggered into the White House after losing the popular vote and winning Florida with the help of the Supreme Court. 
Tonight, Mr. Bush strode into the well of the House of the Representatives as one of the most popular presidents in modern American history, lifted by the public's majority view that he is handling the war well.
"Who knows if he's a different man, but the perception of him is very different," said Alan Brinkley, a history professor at Columbia University. "People look at him now not just as a president, but as an important president."
Mr. Bush received sustained applause as he made his way toward the lectern, and his remarks were interrupted more than 70 times by clapping. The tableau was that of a celebration of a war hero, even as polls show that voters suspect his administration may be hiding something about Enron, and even as some Republicans question Vice President Dick Cheney's refusal to provide records to Congress about talks he held with Enron executives.
"The White House staff has to guard against hubris," said Kenneth M. Duberstein, a former chief of staff to President Reagan. "The danger is that 85 percent means infallibility, 85 percent means we can do whatever we want. I think the president understands well the challenges and dangers that come with 85 percent job approval."
Mr. Bush tried to apply his popularity as commander in chief to his leadership at home: "We will win this war, we'll protect our homeland, and we will revive our economy."
Mr. Bush then said for the first time that his budget for next year would run a deficit -- but "small and short term so long as Congress restrains spending and acts in a fiscally responsible manner." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); HIJACKING (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); DESERT STORM (74%); POLITICS (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); US 401K PLANS (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); GULF STATES (56%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



924 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE UNION: MILITARY ANALYSIS; 
Broadening Of 'Doctrine'

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
In reviewing the dangers that confront the United States, President Bush tonight laid the basis for an ambitious campaign of diplomatic pressure and potential military action against Iraq and other hostile nations that are seeking to develop weapons of mass destruction.
 Following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States, the Bush administration's principal goal has been to dismantle the Qaeda terrorist network and to topple the Taliban rulers who gave it sanctuary. 
 The president also indicated his readiness to take the fight against international terrorists to the Philippines, the Middle East and Africa, and renewed warnings against governments that shield terrorists, invoking what has come to be known as the Bush doctrine.
But tonight the president significantly broadened that doctrine, expanding it to include states that might threaten the United States with weapons of mass destruction. 
Terrorism, he argued, was not the paramount danger facing the United States. Equally worrisome, he insisted, were efforts by Iraq, Iran and North Korea to develop nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. Mr. Bush described those dangers as so great that he seemed to be building an argument in some cases for potential, pre-emptive military action. 
"I will not wait on events while dangers gather," he vowed. "I will not stand by as peril draws closer and closer. The United States will not permit the world's most dangerous regimes to threaten us with the world's most destructive weapons."
It was the strongest oratory that the president has used to date to describe Iraq's pursuit of weapons of mass destruction and the United States' determination to neutralize that threat. The Clinton administration initially referred to Iraq, Iran and North Korea as "rogue states" and later shifted to a milder characterization, "states of concern."
In contrast, Mr. Bush cast them as the essence of evil. He described their pursuit of weapons of mass destruction as an imminent danger that needed to be dealt with quickly as well as decisively. Or as Mr. Bush put it, "We will be deliberate, yet time is not on our side."
Senior civilian and military officials say the Bush administration is only in the beginning stages of trying to figure out how to deal with Iraq. There is no consensus among senior administration officials, and Mr. Bush tonight did not explicitly refer to a military campaign. 
But his description of the threat was so urgent and his call to action so stark that he has essentially accepted the hawks' definition of the problem. After deferring Iraq while the administration concentrated on its war in Afghanistan, Saddam Hussein has now been pushed toward the top of Washington's foreign policy agenda.
"He has laid down a new marker," said Ivo Daalder, a foreign policy specialist at the Brookings Institution. "The hard-liners have been arguing that after Sept. 11 it is intolerable to live in a world in which Iraq, Iran and North Korea have weapons of mass destruction. Bush has now fully embraced this paradigm. He has made clear that this either these regimes or their weapons capabilities must go."
For the first year of the Bush presidency, his administration has been torn over the Iraq issue. The debate has largely turned on two questions: how urgent the Iraqi threat is, and whether it must be dealt with militarily or contained by economic and diplomatic measures.
Pentagon civilians, most notably Deputy Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz, have urged that a military campaign be planned to topple the Hussein government. They have been backed by staunch conservatives like Richard Perle, who have argued that time is of the essence. The United States, the conservatives have argued, must put an end to the Iraqi leadership before it develops nuclear weapons or threatens American and its allies with biological and chemical arms. 
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, in contrast, has put the emphasis on containing Iraqi power and relying on economic sanctions. He has drawn support from foreign policy experts who have argued that that the Iraqi threat is not as urgent as combating terrorism. Many allies, those specialists assert, oppose a military campaign to unseat Mr. Hussein, and the United States needs the cooperation of those governments to gather intelligence and pursue Al Qaeda and other terrorists.
While many elements of Mr. Bush's Iraq policy remain unclear, he sided with the hawks who argue that time is running out and that the Iraqi danger cannot be deferred. Mr. Bush's speech was not one that the State Department would have drafted.
In his broad-brush account of proliferation, Mr. Bush also accepted the hard-line characterization of North Korea and Iran. He complained that North Korea was "arming with missiles" but failed to note that Pyongyang had imposed a moratorium on the testing of long-range missiles. As a result of the test ban, North Korea has yet to test an intercontinental-range missile that could deliver a nuclear payload to the United States. 
He denounced Iran's pursuit of nuclear arms and its support of terrorism. But he declined to highlight Iran's cooperation at the talks in Bonn on fashioning a post-Taliban government, cooperation that has been underscored by the State Department. 
How precisely Mr. Bush plans to stop the Iraqi, Iranian and North Korean weapons is still unclear. There will certainly be many debates within his administration over strategy and tactics. Military action against Iran or North Korea would be far more problematic than strikes against Iraq.
But while the all-important details are unclear, the goal is clearer than ever. Tonight, Mr. Bush not only celebrated the successes in his war against terrorism. He dramatically expanded the mission. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Military Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); TALIBAN (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); POLITICS (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) GORDON, MICHAEL R; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) IRAQ; IRAN; NORTH KOREA; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



925 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE UNION: PUBLIC RESPONSE; 
Seeking Solace In Words Of President

BYLINE:  By JOHN W. FOUNTAIN 

DATELINE: GRIFFITH, Ind., Jan. 29 

 BODY:
Here in steel country, where the hum of mills has waned and where some unemployed workers worry more than they sleep these days, there was hope tonight that the president's State of the Union address would offer a salve, if not a solution, for these troubled economic times.
 In the basement of Eddie Gonzalez's home in this small Northwest Indiana town, several of his former co-workers sat anxiously under the glare of a television. Until recently, the men worked at the LTV Corporation steel plant in nearby East Chicago, Ind. Like his friends, Mr. Gonzalez, 42, a maintenance mechanic welder, was among 2,500 workers laid off in recent months from the East Chicago plant. Mr. Gonzalez had worked in the steel industry for 23 years, the last nine at LTV until he was laid off. 
 "Let's listen to Bush save the steel industry," said Mr. Gonzalez, a Democrat, picking up the remote control and turning up the volume. 
"He ain't gonna say nothing," said Scott Mellinger, 41, another laid-off LTV worker who seemed somewhat less enthusiastic than his friends. 
The half a dozen men who watched the president's speech at Mr. Gonzalez's home found some solace in Mr. Bush's talk of building a stronger economy, but seemed to be left with more questions than answers and little comfort about their future.
"What about pensions?" Mr. Gonzalez yelled about half an hour into the president's speech.
"What this country needs is something to help people who are on the bubble," said Mr. Mellinger, adding that he had applied for food stamps since being laid off from LTV.
Across the nation tonight, Americans gathered with friends and family around televisions, listening to President Bush's first State of the Union address delivered with the backdrop of the war on terrorism, a slumping economy and with the wounds of Sept. 11 still fresh in the hearts and minds of many. So tonight, while some found less hope than they expected, others like Charles Wolf found solace in the president's words. 
Mr. Wolf, 47, whose wife died in the World Trade Center attacks on Sept. 11, watched the speech in the Greenwich Village apartment that they shared for 13 years.
"I've been very impressed with what he has done so far," said Mr. Wolf, a registered Republican who voted for Mr. Bush in 2000. 
As he watched the speech, Mr. Wolf sat in the same chair that he sat in when he heard a jet flying in on Sept. 11. Seconds later, he heard a large boom as it struck the north tower, instantly killing his wife, who worked on the 97th floor at Marsh & McLennan Companies.
When Mr. Bush spoke of the terrorists responsible for the attacks, Mr. Wolf was moved to tears.
"He's right -- it was evil driving those jetliners," Mr. Wolf said. "Over all it made me proud of him. He has found his cause since 9/11 -- I have not seen him make a serious mistake since then."
Still some people like Ruth Lessner, 79, who was among four women who gathered at their condominium in Hollywood, Fla., to watch Mr. Bush, seemed to believe the president's speech fell short on substance in some areas.
"What's he doing for seniors? Absolutely nothing," Ms. Lessner said, contending that the president barely touched on issues important to older people.
But Pearl Feder, who gave her age as "over 65," said that the president "has come a long way."
"I'm pleasantly surprised," Ms. Feder said. "He's got a big job in front of him with this terrorism."
The president's main emphasis, national security, went over particularly well with a group of marines at Marine Corps Air Station in Miramar, Calif., which was home to the crews of a helicopter and refueling plane that went down in separate accidents this month in Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
"I wanted to determine where the country is going, and I think he helped draw some focus to the war of terrorism and getting our economy going," said Maj. Jon Rabine, 34, who trains pilots. "He's made a good effort to get both parties to focus in that direction. He made a point of talking about an increase in the military budget. That's favorable for us, both in quality of life for our marines and to supply us with the equipment we need to fulfill the mission."
Few of those interviewed for reactions to Mr. Bush's speech objected to his general call for military readiness, but several people wanted to know more about what his plans meant for other budget priorities. 
"I wanted to know a lot more specifics, particularly about what impacts increasing defense spending are going to have on domestic programs," said David Doerr, a journalism student at Southwest Texas State University in San Marcos, who described himself as a member of the Green Party. "I thought the rest of it was just a lot of rhetoric, even though I will admit he's a great politician."
Mr. Doerr, 22, watched the speech with four other students. While he was disappointed that the president failed to address the fallout from the Enron scandal, Mr. Bush won universal praise from another student, Vanessa Greenwalt, a junior in public relations. 
"He's just so confident about everything that he gives you confidence, about the country, about the future, about everything," Ms. Greenwalt, 23, said.
When Mr. Bush used the signature phrase, "Let's roll," Ms. Greenwalt raised a fist in the air and yelled, "Yes! I love Bush!"
Later, she said, "He stepped down off the pedestal a little when he said that, and brought himself down with the common people, the man on the street."
"That's a nice sentiment," Mr. Doerr agreed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eddie Gonzalez, a laid-off worker at a steel plant, at his home in Griffith, Ind., with his son Jordan. "Let's listen to Bush save the steel industry," Mr. Gonzalez said as he turned up the volume on the television set. (Scott Olson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); WAR ON TERROR (73%); POLITICS (72%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (71%); TERRORISM (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); FOOD STAMPS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); PUBLIC OPINION 

COMPANY: LTV CORP (71%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (60%)

TICKER: MMC (NYSE) (60%); MHM (LSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (71%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) FOUNTAIN, JOHN W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



926 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE UNION: SPENDING PLANS; 
Security Buildup and Tax Cuts Win Protection From the Deficit

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan 29 

 BODY:
Nearly a year after traveling to Capitol Hill with a plan to carve up a huge budget surplus, President Bush made clear to Congress and the nation tonight that the abrupt return of deficits would not constrain his efforts to revive the economy through tax cuts while also bolstering national security. 
 Yet even as Mr. Bush put fighting terrorism and ending the recession at the top of his agenda, suggesting that those goals were worth whatever they cost, he signaled to Democrats that he would seek to block many of their spending priorities on the ground of fiscal prudence. 
 "To achieve these great national objectives -- to win the war, protect the homeland and revitalize our economy -- our budget will run a deficit that will be small and short-term so long as Congress restrains spending and acts in a fiscally responsible manner," Mr. Bush said.
The president addressed other issues that will figure prominently in the budget he will send to Congress next Monday, including education, energy, trade and remaking Social Security to include private investment accounts. The Social Security proposal is one that some members of his own party in Congress have told the White House they would prefer to play down, given the weak economy, a volatile stock market and the Enron collapse.
Confronting Democrats who have suggested that the 10-year tax cut of $1.35 trillion he signed into law last year was excessive and should be slowed or rolled back, Mr. Bush formally proposed tonight that it be extended beyond the end of the decade.
He also again urged passage of new or accelerated tax cuts as part of an economic recovery package. He pushed the plan despite evidence that the recession is coming to an end, suggesting that it could strengthen the recovery by speeding the creation of new jobs.
By the administration's estimates, the $2 trillion federal budget will be $106 billion in deficit in the current fiscal year and $80 billion in deficit next year.
The president's budget will call for a $48 billion increase in Pentagon spending next year. He will also propose to double spending on domestic security programs, to $38 billion.
His budget will set aside as much as $75 billion in the current fiscal year plus $90 billion next year to pay for the economic recovery plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); POLITICS (73%); TERRORISM (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); JOB CREATION (63%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



927 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 3747 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE UNION; 
President Bush's State of the Union Address to Congress and the Nation

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Bush's State of the Union address, as recorded by The New York Times:

The War on Terror
 As we gather tonight, our nation is at war, our economy is in recession and the civilized world faces unprecedented dangers. Yet the state of our union has never been stronger. 
 We last met in an hour of shock and suffering. In four short months, our nation has comforted the victims, begun to rebuild New York and the Pentagon, rallied a great coalition, captured, arrested and rid the world of thousands of terrorists, destroyed Afghanistan's terrorist training camps, saved a people from starvation and freed a country from brutal oppression.
The American flag flies again over our embassy in Kabul. Terrorists who once occupied Afghanistan now occupy cells at Guantanamo Bay. And terrorist leaders who urged followers to sacrifice their lives are running for their own.
America and Afghanistan are now allies against terror. We'll be partners in rebuilding that country, and this evening we welcomed the distinguished interim leader of a liberated Afghanistan, Chairman Hamid Karzai.
The last time we met in this chamber, the mothers and daughters of Afghanistan were captives in their own homes, forbidden from working or going to school. Today women are free, and are part of Afghanistan's new government, and we welcome the new minister of women's affairs, Dr. Sima Samar.
Our progress is a tribute to the spirit of the Afghan people, to the resolve of our coalition and to the might of the United States military.
When I called our troops into action, I did so with complete confidence in their courage and skill, and tonight, thanks to them, we are winning the war on terror. The men and women of our armed forces have delivered a message now clear to every enemy of the United States: Even 7,000 miles away, across oceans and continents, on mountaintops and in caves, you will not escape the justice of this nation.
For many Americans, these four months have brought sorrow and pain that will never completely go away. Every day a retired firefighter returns to Ground Zero, to feel closer to his two sons who died there. At a memorial in New York, a little boy left his football with a note for his lost father: "Dear Daddy, please take this to Heaven. I don't want to play football until I can play with you again someday." Last month, at the grave of her husband, Micheal, C.I.A. officer and Marine who died in Mazar-i-Sharif, Shannon Spann said these words of farewell: "Semper Fi, my love." Shannon is with us tonight.
Shannon, I assure you and all who have lost a loved one that our cause is just and our country will never forget the debt we owe Micheal and all who gave their lives for freedom.
Our cause is just, and it continues. Our discoveries in Afghanistan confirmed our worst fears and showed us the true scope of the task ahead. We have seen the depth of our enemies' hatred in videos where they laugh about the loss of innocent life. And the depth of their hatred is equaled by the madness of the destruction they design. We have found diagrams of American nuclear power plants and public water facilities, detailed instructions for making chemical weapons, surveillance maps of American cities and thorough descriptions of landmarks in America and throughout the world.
What we have found in Afghanistan confirms that, far from ending there, our war against terror is only beginning. Most of the 19 men who hijacked planes on Sept. 11 were trained in Afghanistan's camps, and so were tens of thousands of others. Thousands of dangerous killers, schooled in the methods of murder, often supported by outlaw regimes, are now spread throughout the world like ticking time bombs, set to go off without warning.
Thanks to the work of our law enforcement officials and coalition partners, hundreds of terrorists have been arrested, yet tens of thousands of trained terrorists are still at large. These enemies view the entire world as a battlefield, and we must pursue them wherever they are. So long as training camps operate, so long as nations harbor terrorists, freedom is at risk, and America and our allies must not, and will not, allow it.
Our nation will continue to be steadfast and patient and persistent in the pursuit of two great objectives. First, we will shut down terrorist camps, disrupt terrorist plans and bring terrorists to justice. And second, we must prevent the terrorists and regimes who seek chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons from threatening the United States and the world.
Our military has put the terror training camps of Afghanistan out of business, yet camps still exist in at least a dozen countries. A terrorist underworld, including groups like Hamas, Hezbollah, Islamic Jihad, Jaish-e-Muhammad, operates in remote jungles and deserts, and hides in the centers of large cities.
While the most visible military action is in Afghanistan, America is acting elsewhere. We now have troops in the Philippines helping to train that country's armed forces to go after terrorist cells that have executed an American and still hold hostages. Our soldiers, working with the Bosnian government, seized terrorists who were plotting to bomb our embassy. Our Navy is patrolling the coast of Africa to block the shipment of weapons and the establishment of terrorist camps in Somalia.
My hope is that all nations will heed our call, and eliminate the terrorist parasites who threaten their countries, and our own. Many nations are acting forcefully. Pakistan is now cracking down on terror, and I admire the strong leadership of President Musharraf. But some governments will be timid in the face of terror. And make no mistake about it: If they do not act, America will.
Our second goal is to prevent regimes that sponsor terror from threatening America or our friends and allies with weapons of mass destruction.
Some of these regimes have been pretty quiet since Sept. 11. But we know their true nature. North Korea is a regime arming with missiles and weapons of mass destruction, while starving its citizens.
Iran aggressively pursues these weapons and exports terror, while an unelected few repress the Iranian people's hope for freedom.
Iraq continues to flaunt its hostility toward America and to support terror. The Iraqi regime has plotted to develop anthrax and nerve gas and nuclear weapons for over a decade. This is a regime that has already used poison gas to murder thousands of its own citizens, leaving the bodies of mothers huddled over their dead children. This is a regime that agreed to international inspections, then kicked out the inspectors. This is a regime that has something to hide from the civilized world.
States like these, and their terrorist allies, constitute an axis of evil, arming to threaten the peace of the world. By seeking weapons of mass destruction, these regimes pose a grave and growing danger. They could provide these arms to terrorists, giving them the means to match their hatred. They could attack our allies or attempt to blackmail the United States. In any of these cases, the price of indifference would be catastrophic.
We will work closely with our coalition to deny terrorists and their state sponsors the materials, technology, and expertise to make and deliver weapons of mass destruction. We will develop and deploy effective missile defenses to protect America and our allies from sudden attack. And all nations should know: America will do what is necessary to ensure our nation's security.
We'll be deliberate. Yet time is not on our side. I will not wait on events while dangers gather. I will not stand by as peril draws closer and closer. The United States of America will not permit the world's most dangerous regimes to threaten us with the world's most destructive weapons.
Our war on terror is well begun, but it is only begun. This campaign may not be finished on our watch, yet it must be and it will be waged on our watch.
We can't stop short. If we stopped now, leaving terror camps intact and terror states unchecked, our sense of security would be false and temporary.
History has called America and our allies to action, and it is both our responsibility and our privilege to fight freedom's fight.

The Budget
Our first priority must always be the security of our nation, and that will be reflected in the budget I send to Congress. My budget supports three great goals for America: We will win this war, we'll protect our homeland and we will revive our economy.
Sept. 11 brought out the best in America, and the best in this Congress, and I join the American people in applauding your unity and resolve.
Now Americans deserve to have this same spirit directed toward addressing problems here at home. I'm a proud member of my party. Yet as we act to win the war, protect our people and create jobs in America, we must act first and foremost not as Republicans, not as Democrats, but as Americans.
It costs a lot to fight this war. We have spent more than a billion dollars a month, over $30 million a day, and we must be prepared for future operations. Afghanistan proved that expensive precision weapons defeat the enemy and spare innocent lives, and we need more of them. We need to replace aging aircraft and make our military more agile to put our troops anywhere in the world quickly and safely. Our men and women in uniform deserve the best weapons, the best equipment, the best training, and they also deserve another pay raise. My budget includes the largest increase in defense spending in two decades, because while the price of freedom and security is high, it is never too high. Whatever it costs to defend our country, we will pay.
The next priority of my budget is to do everything possible to protect our citizens and strengthen our nation against the ongoing threat of another attack.
Time and distance from the events of Sept. 11 will not make us safer unless we act on its lessons. America is no longer protected by vast oceans. We are protected from attack only by vigorous action abroad, and increased vigilance at home.
My budget nearly doubles funding for a sustained strategy of homeland security, focused on four key areas: bioterrorism, emergency response, airport and border security, and improved intelligence. We will develop vaccines to fight anthrax and other deadly diseases. We'll increase funding to help states and communities train and equip our heroic police and firefighters. We will improve intelligence collection and sharing, expand patrols at our borders, strengthen the security of air travel and use technology to track the arrivals and departures of visitors to the United States.
Homeland security will make America not only stronger, but in many ways better. Knowledge gained from bioterrorism research will improve public health; stronger police and fire departments will mean safer neighborhoods; stricter border enforcement will help combat illegal drugs.
And as government works to better secure our homeland, America will continue to depend on the eyes and ears of alert citizens. A few days before Christmas, an airline flight attendant spotted a passenger lighting a match. The crew and passengers quickly subdued the man, who had been trained by Al Qaeda and was armed with explosives. The people on that plane were alert, and as a result likely saved nearly 200 lives, and tonight we welcome and thank flight attendants Hermis Moutardier and Cristina Jones.

The Economy
Once we have funded our national security and our homeland security, the final great priority of my budget is economic security for the American people.
To achieve these great national objectives -- to win the war, protect the homeland and revitalize our economy -- our budget will run a deficit that will be small and short term so long as Congress restrains spending and acts in a fiscally responsible manner. We have clear priorities, and we must act at home with the same purpose and resolve we have shown overseas. We will prevail in the war and we will defeat this recession.
Americans who've lost their jobs need our help. And I support extending unemployment benefits and direct assistance for health care coverage. Yet American workers want more than unemployment checks, they want a steady paycheck. When America works, America prospers, so my economic security plan can be summed up in one word: jobs.
Good jobs begin with good schools, and here we've made a fine start.
Republicans and Democrats worked together to achieve historic education reform so that no child is left behind. I was proud to work with members of both parties, Chairman John Boehner and Congressman George Miller, Senator Judd Gregg. And I was so proud of our work I even had nice things to say about my friend Ted Kennedy. I know the folks at the Crawford coffee shop couldn't believe I'd say such a thing. But our work on this bill shows what is possible if we set aside posturing and focus on results.
There is more to do. We need to prepare our children to read and succeed in school with improved Head Start and early childhood development programs. We must upgrade our teacher colleges and teacher training and launch a major recruiting drive with a great goal for America, a quality teacher in every classroom.
Good jobs also depend on reliable and affordable energy. This Congress must act to encourage conservation, promote technology, build infrastructure, and it must act to increase energy production at home so America is less dependent on foreign oil.
Good jobs depend on expanded trade. Selling into new markets creates new jobs, so I ask Congress to finally approve trade promotion authority. On these two key issues, trade and energy, the House of Representatives has acted to create jobs, and I urge the Senate to pass this legislation.
Good jobs depend on sound tax policy. Last year, some in this hall thought my tax relief plan was too small; some thought it was too big. But when the checks arrived in the mail, most Americans thought tax relief was just about right. Congress listened to the people and responded by reducing tax rates, doubling the child credit and ending the death tax. For the sake of long-term growth and to help Americans plan for the future, let's make these tax cuts permanent.
The way out of this recession, the way to create jobs, is to grow the economy by encouraging investment in factories and equipment, and by speeding up tax relief so people have more money to spend. For the sake of American workers, let's pass a stimulus package.
Good jobs must be the aim of welfare reform. As we reauthorize these important reforms, we must always remember the goal is to reduce dependency on government and offer every American the dignity of a job.
Americans know economic security can vanish in an instant without health security. I ask Congress to join me this year to enact a patients' bill of rights, to give uninsured workers credits to help buy health coverage, to approve an historic increase in the spending for veterans' health, and to give seniors a sound and modern Medicare system that includes coverage for prescription drugs.
A good job should lead to security in retirement. I ask Congress to enact new safeguards for 401(k) and pension plans. Employees who have worked hard and saved all their lives should not have to risk losing everything if their company fails. Through stricter accounting standards and tougher disclosure requirements, corporate America must be made more accountable to employees and shareholders and held to the highest standards of conduct.
Retirement security also depends upon keeping the commitments of Social Security, and we will. We must make Social Security financially stable and allow personal retirement accounts for younger workers who choose them.
Members, you and I will work together in the months ahead on other issues: productive farm policy, a cleaner environment, broader home ownership, especially among minorities, and ways to encourage the good work of charities and faith-based groups. I ask you to join me on these important domestic issues in the same spirit of cooperation we have applied to our war against terrorism.
During these last few months, I have been humbled and privileged to see the true character of this country in a time of testing. Our enemies believed America was weak and materialistic, that we would splinter in fear and selfishness. They were as wrong as they are evil.
The American people have responded magnificently, with courage and compassion, strength and resolve. As I have met the heroes, hugged the families, and looked into the tired faces of rescuers, I have stood in awe of the American people.
And I hope you will join me in expressing thanks to one American for the strength, and calm, and comfort she brings to our nation in crisis: our first lady, Laura Bush.
None of us would ever wish the evil that was done on Sept. 11, yet after America was attacked, it was as if our entire country looked into a mirror, and saw our better selves. We were reminded that we are citizens, with obligations to each other, to our country, and to history. We began to think less of the goods we can accumulate, and more about the good we can do. For too long our culture has said, "If it feels good, do it." Now America is embracing a new ethic and a new creed: "Let's roll." In the sacrifice of soldiers, the fierce brotherhood of firefighters and the bravery and generosity of ordinary citizens, we have glimpsed what a new culture of responsibility could look like. We want to be a nation that serves goals larger than self. We've been offered a unique opportunity, and we must not let this moment pass.

Voluntary Service
My call tonight is for every American to commit at least two years, four thousand hours over the rest of your lifetime, to the service of your neighbors and your nation.
Many are already serving and I thank you. If you aren't sure how to help, I've got a good place to start. To sustain and extend the best that has emerged in America, I invite you to join the new U.S.A. Freedom Corps. The Freedom Corps will focus on three areas of need: responding in case of crisis at home, rebuilding our communities and extending American compassion throughout the world.
One purpose of the U.S.A. Freedom Corps will be homeland security. America needs retired doctors and nurses who can be mobilized in major emergencies, volunteers to help police and fire departments, transportation and utility workers well-trained in spotting danger.
Our country also needs citizens working to rebuild our communities. We need mentors to love children, especially children whose parents are in prison, and we need more talented teachers in troubled schools. U.S.A. Freedom Corps will expand and improve the good efforts of AmeriCorps and Senior Corps to recruit more than 200,000 new volunteers.
And America needs citizens to extend the compassion of our country to every part of the world. So we will renew the promise of the Peace Corps, double its volunteers over the next five years and ask it to join a new effort to encourage development and education and opportunity in the Islamic world.
This time of adversity offers a unique moment of opportunity, a moment we must seize to change our culture. Through the gathering momentum of millions of acts of service and decency and kindness, I know we can overcome evil with greater good.
And we have a great opportunity during this time of war to lead the world toward the values that will bring lasting peace. All fathers and mothers, in all societies, want their children to be educated and live free from poverty and violence. No people on earth yearn to be oppressed or aspire to servitude or eagerly await the midnight knock of the secret police.
If anyone doubts this, let them look to Afghanistan, where the Islamic "street" greeted the fall of tyranny with song and celebration. Let the skeptics look to Islam's own rich history, with its centuries of learning and tolerance and progress.
America will lead by defending liberty and justice because they are right and true and unchanging for all people everywhere. No nation owns these aspirations and no nation is exempt from them. We have no intention of imposing our culture, but America will always stand firm for the non-negotiable demands of human dignity, the rule of law, limits on the power of the state, respect for women, private property, free speech, equal justice and religious tolerance.
America will take the side of brave men and women who advocate these values around the world, including the Islamic world, because we have a greater objective than eliminating threats and containing resentment. We seek a just and peaceful world beyond the war on terror.

Ending Old Rivalries
In this moment of opportunity, a common danger is erasing old rivalries.
America is working with Russia and China and India in ways we never have before to achieve peace and prosperity. In every region, free markets and free trade and free societies are proving their power to lift lives. Together with friends and allies, from Europe to Asia and Africa to Latin America, we will demonstrate that the forces of terror cannot stop the momentum of freedom.
The last time I spoke here, I expressed the hope that life would return to normal. In some ways, it has. In others, it never will. Those of us who have lived through these challenging times have been changed by them. We've come to know truths that we will never question: Evil is real, and it must be opposed.
Beyond all differences of race or creed, we are one country, mourning together and facing danger together. Deep in the American character, there is honor, and it is stronger than cynicism. And many have discovered again that even in tragedy, especially in tragedy, God is near.
In a single instant, we realized that this will be a decisive decade in the history of liberty, that we've been called to a unique role in human events.
Rarely has the world faced a choice more clear or consequential.
Our enemies send other people's children on missions of suicide and murder.
They embrace tyranny and death as a cause and a creed. We stand for a different choice, made long ago, on the day of our founding. We affirm it again today. We choose freedom and the dignity of every life.
Steadfast in our purpose, we now press on. We have known freedom's price.
We have shown freedom's power. And in this great conflict, my fellow Americans, we will see freedom's victory. Thank you all. May God bless.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush delivering his State of the Union address. The appearance was his third before a joint session of Congress. The others covered the budget and the Sept. 11 attacks. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); STARVATION (71%); TRENDS (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (65%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); TERRORISM; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS 

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S AFFAIRS (54%) ;ENRON CORP 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); SIMA SAMAR (54%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); MAZAR-E SHARIF, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CUBA (56%) AFGHANISTAN; NORTH KOREA; IRAQ; IRAN; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



928 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: THE TURNAROUND EFFORT; 
Enron Names an Interim Chief to Oversee Its Bankruptcy

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN With JENNIFER 8. LEE 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
Enron today named Stephen F. Cooper, a specialist in revamping troubled companies, to lead it through the largest bankruptcy in the nation's history.
 Mr. Cooper, who will serve as Enron's interim chief executive, fills the top position vacated by Kenneth L. Lay, who resigned last Wednesday as chief executive and chairman under pressure from the company's creditors. 
 Enron is still searching for a chairman, who will serve as the political face of the company in Washington, where it is being investigated by Congress, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice. 
Mr. Cooper, 55, has been involved in prominent bankruptcies, including those of Federated Department Stores and Trans World Airlines. But sorting out Enron's tangled and opaque finances will be the biggest challenge of his career, bankruptcy experts said. 
Enron also named Jeffrey McMahon president and chief operating officer. He succeeds Lawrence G. Whalley, who resigned to take a position with UBS Warburg, which bought the energy trading business that was once the centerpiece of Enron's success. 
Mr. McMahon, who was named in a letter by a former employee, Sherron S. Watkins, as one executive who complained about the company's conflicts of interest, became chief financial officer after the forced resignation in October of Andrew S. Fastow, who managed some of the partnerships that helped bring the company to ruin. Raymond M. Bowen Jr., formerly the treasurer, was appointed executive vice president and chief financial officer.
Mr. Cooper, a managing partner at Zolfo Cooper, a boutique advisory firm for companies in trouble, was the leading candidate to replace Mr. Lay. In selecting candidates for the Enron board to interview, the creditors committee decided to focus on specialists in corporate turnarounds, rather than chief executives with marquee names. 
"Our focus is on the future of Enron," Mr. Cooper said in a statement. "Enron has real businesses with real value. We will work closely with the board of directors, management and the creditors committee to develop a reorganization plan to maximize value for the company's stakeholders."
Mr. Cooper is known for his ability to balance the interests of warring factions.
"He's a person who can get in there and see where the bodies are buried and see what things are needed to calm the waters," said Sandra E. Mayerson, a bankruptcy lawyer at Holland & Knight who represents several of Enron's smaller creditors.
Still, some creditors not represented on the committee reacted with only a cautious optimism, praising the naming of an outsider to run the company but noting that the terms of Mr. Cooper's contract, which calls for him to be paid an hourly wage with a bonus if he meets certain goals, have not yet been made public.
"We're going to keep an open mind as to Mr. Cooper and his team," said David Bennett, a lawyer who represents a group of oil and gas companies owed about $100 million. "To have someone with restructuring experience is a good thing."
While a few creditors have asked for a court-appointed trustee to oversee the reorganization, some said that the choice of an outsider might satisfy them. "He's going to bring credibility to the situation," Ms. Mayerson said. "I think if you hadn't gotten him involved in management, there would have been movement for an examiner or a trustee. He can serve that function as well as the C.E.O. function. So you are getting two functions for the price of one."
A lawyer for the Wiser Oil Company, another creditor that has asked for a trustee, declined to comment.
Some bankruptcy experts have questioned Mr. Cooper's lack of experience as a chief executive. But Mr. Cooper's defenders point out that what is needed in Enron's case is someone intimately familiar with bankruptcy, not someone who can lead or innovate in the context of a healthy company.
"He's a person who knows the ins and outs of restructuring and a person who knows the ins and outs of forensic accounting," said Deborah Hicks Midanek, a principal for Glass & Associates, a Zolfo competitor.
Mr. Cooper began work today, sending Enron employees a voice mail message praising the work force and expressing confidence that the company would eventually emerge from bankruptcy in some form. But many outside experts maintain that Enron may have little choice but to sell its viable businesses and eventually shut down.
Mr. Cooper has largely avoided the spotlight, even as he has advised or managed well-known companies in crisis. 
He grew up in Indiana and received his M.B.A. from the Wharton School in 1970. At the accounting firm of Touche Ross, now a part of Deloitte & Touche, he and Frank Zolfo, now retired, founded the reorganization advisory group and were early advocates for bankruptcy as an area of specialty.
In the early 1990's, Mr. Cooper served as an adviser to Federated, the owner of Bloomingdale's and Macy's, as it worked through its bankruptcy. In part because of the aggressive timelines Mr. Cooper set, the Federated bankruptcy proceeding took only two years instead of the five years that some analysts had predicted. 
He also served as an adviser in two of T.W.A.'s bankruptcies.
Even as he takes the Enron job, Mr. Cooper continues to serve as vice chairman and chief restructuring officer of the Canadian conglomerate Laidlaw Inc., the largest North American ground transportation company, whose holdings include Greyhound Lines. Though he was called in to help the debt-burdened company stave off bankruptcy in 2000, Laidlaw filed for protection from creditors in June 2001.
"When we did eventually file for bankruptcy, we did it in a very orderly basis, and that had a lot to do with his efforts," said Peter Widdrington, the chairman of Laidlaw. Mr. Cooper cleared a major obstacle by negotiating a recent $55.4 million settlement, announced two weeks ago, in a class- action lawsuit against Laidlaw.
On a scale of one to 10, Mr. Cooper told a Canadian newspaper, he rated Laidlaw a 4 for complexity. "I would rather work on a 10 than a 4," he said.
Enron, then, is his wish come true.

Stephen F. Cooper

BORN: Oct. 23, 1946, Gary, Ind.

EDUCATION: B.S. in economics, Occidental College, 1968; M.B.A., Wharton School of Business, 1970.

CAREER HIGHLIGHTS: 1970-1985 -- Helped found reorganziation advisory group at Touche Ross & Co., which later became part of Deloitte & Touche. 1985 -- Joined advisory firm Zolfo, which was renamed Zolfo Cooper. 1990-1992 -- Advised Federated Department Stores on reorganization. 1995-1996 -- Adviser to Morrison Knudsen during its reorganization. 2000-current -- Vice chairman and chief restructuring officer of Laidlaw, an Ontario-based conglomerate. The company filed for bankruptcy protection in June 2001. 2001-current -- Advised Washington Group International, a company formed when Morrison Knudsen acquired Raytheon Engineers and Constructors, on reorganization.

FAMILY: Nancie, wife, with two daughters.

HOBBIES: Golf, tennis, skiing, biking, gardening.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Enron has appointed Stephen F. Cooper, left, as interim chief executive, Jeffrey McMahon as president and chief operating officer, and Raymond M. Bowen Jr., right, as chief financial officer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (94%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); HISTORY (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (67%) BANKRUPTCIES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); MACY'S INC (57%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (56%); HOLLAND & KNIGHT LLP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%) ENRON CORP 

TICKER: M (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: STEPHEN F COOPER (89%) COOPER, STEPHEN F; LAY, KENNETH L; MCMAHON, JEFFREY; WHALLEY, LAWRENCE G; BOWEN, RAYMOND JR; DEWAN, SHAILA K 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



929 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE UNION: SCENE; 
Ritual Moment of Glory as Battle-Tested Bush Returns to a Once-Chilling Setting

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
In a booming moment of shouted welcome and applause, months of pent-up national anguish seemed to find a release point tonight as the House doorkeeper formally told Congress that the leader of a severely tested nation had arrived to be heard.
 "Mr. Speaker, the president of the United States!" 
 With their bipartisan roar of greeting, the nation's lawmakers seized the ritual announcement as if it offered lyrical comfort, as in: We got through all of last year; we're still here. 
Down the aisle came Mr. Bush, beaming and nodding, pointing in recognition, bathing in the applause as if it were a translation into sound of his 80 percentile popularity ratings. 
Politicians of all stripes leaned to touch him, smile upon him, be glimpsed in passing on television as loyal spear-carriers for the wartime president who came to bear witness to the state of the union's resilience since Sept. 11.
More than one incumbent pondered Mr. Bush's moment of grand entry. 
"The closest thing to tonight was when Reagan was shot and he came to address Congress right after he recovered," said Representative Peter T. King, Republican of Long Island, describing a special moment of national celebration at having prevailed in the face of deadly danger. 
"I supported John McCain in the primaries and came into this with no strong affection for George Bush at all," noted Mr. King, one of the many working politicians in the chamber who enviously analyzed the popularity of Mr. Bush. "Having said that, I think the guy is phenomenal. Since Sept. 11 he has really been the ultimate wartime president." 
In repeated rounds of applause, lawmakers found it hard to resist the crafted panoply of applause lines and staged graphics as the president offered oratorical cues for TV to show the V.I.P. row. It was crowded with heroic and celebrated figures from Sept. 11 and the Afghanistan war. 
In his accounting to the nation, President Bush hailed the nation's willingness to "fight freedom's fight." He lingered on this topic for much of his speech, with Democrats quick to stand at each burst of patriotic applause and at least as quick to hail the first mention of such domestic agenda issues as health care.
There was no overt citation by Mr. Bush of the Enron debacle. But there was the gentlest admission that deficit budgeting had returned -- "small and short-term," Mr. Bush vowed -- that seemed to be received as a sure sign of the return of an old Washington familiar theme, as members on both sides applauded and grinned.
With security drum-tight, the evening presented the rare sight of the president and Vice President Dick Cheney in the same room at a public event. In one of the warmest moments of spontaneity, the chamber broke into applause at the arrival of Hamid Karzai, the interim leader of Afghanistan. 
Outside the Capitol, an assortment of soldiers and police made a fortress of the building on a balmy night. Fruit trees could be seen blossoming eerily beyond the TV lamp light. 
In the chamber, Democrats tried to calculate their applause even if they could not totally resist Mr. Bush's moment.
"I applaud some of the things he says," explained Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, rationing his enthusiasm, impatient for what he insists will be the crucial issue of the sagging economy. "This is all a reflection of the war at the moment, but it's a long way between January and November."
With far less calculated enthusiasm, Representative Carrie P. Meek, Democrat of Florida, staked out her seat on the aisle hours early, awaiting the Republican president as if he Caesar returning from Gaul.
Democrats smiled warily when Mr. Bush got around to some of his signature oratorical wooing of Democrats in the name of bipartisanship. He singled out Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, as "my friend." 
But the senator had already spent the day drawing the line in the electoral sands of November and arguing for greater benefits for the unemployed as an extension of the wartime sacrifice that President Bush invoked tonight.
"There's a new spirit in America about people who are hurting," the senator emphasized as the Democrats anticipated President Bush's triumphal visit to the Capitol.
Mr. Bush departed beaming with no less confidence than when he arrived. He sparked a final bipartisan ovation by returning to his main theme of the Sept. 11 aftermath. "We will see freedom's victory," he promised and the applause rolled forth. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush giving a thumbs up to, from left, Colin L. Powell, Paul H. O'Neill, Donald H. Rumsfeld, John Ashcroft and Elaine L. Chao. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); HIJACKING (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); CELEBRITIES (69%); AIRLINES (68%); TERRORISM (67%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); PETER T KING (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); DICK CHENEY (56%); ELAINE CHAO (56%) CLINES, FRANCIS X; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (77%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



930 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: George W. Bush's Moment 

 BODY:
President Bush delivered a message last night that told more about the robust state of his presidency than the uncertain State of the Union. Contrary to most predictions of a year or even six months ago, Mr. Bush has soared to heights of popularity enjoyed by few modern presidents. His prosecution of the war against terror has given Americans a new appreciation for his character and confidence in his leadership. That feeling was palpable on Capitol Hill, where the president seemed to get an even warmer welcome than usual. Right now Mr. Bush has an extraordinary amount of political capital, enough to press forward with a far more difficult and dramatic domestic agenda than the one he suggested last night.
 The president's speech, delivered with plain-spoken eloquence, sought to rally Americans behind three "great goals": the war on terrorism, the ensuring of domestic security and the revival of the economy. The public was probably most eager to hear what Mr. Bush plans for the next step in the battle against terrorism overseas, and in this area he was appropriately forceful. He named Iraq, Iran and North Korea as part of "an axis of evil" that threatens America, and he put those countries on notice that the United States will not stand by and let them develop biological, chemical and nuclear weapons. Deciding how to deal with these nations, however, will not be as easy as warning them. 
 Mr. Bush proudly announced that he intended to ask Congress for the biggest increase in defense spending in two decades. Military spending is one of the areas where the president's newly accumulated political capital could be spent most wisely, in wrenching Congress away from outdated and wildly expensive weapons programs so that money can be directed to the kind of smart modern military that both he and his Defense Department seem to want. But while the president praised the precision weapons used in Afghanistan, there was no talk about sacrificing unnecessary cold-war armaments and bases. Simply asking for a lot more money for military projects is a modest goal for a man with the ability to move the nation in a whole new direction. 
On the domestic front, Mr. Bush asked mostly for easy victories. He adopted the Democrats' calls for increased spending on domestic defense. He promised to nearly double spending to combat bio-terrorism and threats to airports and borders, echoing arguments of his former opponents that beefing up protection at home would have the benefit of improving health care and the war on crime and drugs. This goal, while worthy, is also an easy reach for a leader in Mr. Bush's position. He may find that Congress is even more ready to spend in this area than he is.
In the economic sphere, Mr. Bush was disappointing. He seemed intent on using his popularity to press the tired hard-right Republican agenda of accelerating and, in the name of "economic security," making permanent the tax cuts for the rich that were enacted last year. Congress owes it to Americans to look closely at the numbers when the administration's budget is proposed next week to see how they add up.
Mr. Bush spoke passionately of the need for Americans to volunteer their time to help their fellow citizens, and he expressed sympathy for those suffering in the current economic downturn, but provided few specifics, running quickly through a laundry list of social programs like privatizing Social Security and providing a prescription drug benefit for the elderly. When it came to energy, the gap between what Mr. Bush could achieve and what he chose to reach for was particularly glaring. Blessed with the influence to lead the nation toward energy independence through conservation, he could only call once again for passage of his bankrupt energy bill. The Enron scandal has doomed his plan. But Enron, along with other hard-to-resolve problems, was never specifically mentioned. If the president had chosen to be more daring, he could have tackled Enron and surprised the nation with a call for Congress to pass the long-deferred campaign finance reform legislation.
Mr. Bush made it sound as if Americans could have it all: spending on defense, domestic security, social programs and tax cuts. If the economy is headed in the right direction, the public may be happy to go along with such a pain-free agenda. But the test of his leadership will come when he better defines the difficult choices lying ahead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); COLD WAR (76%); HIJACKING (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); AIRPORTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%); AIRLINES (60%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM; EDITORIALS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) AFGHANISTAN; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



931 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; 
Tenuous Grip on Rebuilding May Hurt Mayor's Term

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's performance as mayor is likely to be measured in large part by his success at leading New York City to a consensus on what should happen with the World Trade Center site, and the pace and quality of the subsequent rebuilding.
 But it will not be easy. As it turns out, Mr. Bloomberg has more authority to suspend alternate side of the street parking regulations than in determining the course of what happens on the tract of land just south of City Hall. 
 In another example of a trend in New York governance that began with the fiscal crisis of the 1970's -- Albany usurping the authority of New York City -- Mr. Bloomberg's role in controlling what is almost certain to be the most critical decision of his first term was constrained before he ever set foot in City Hall. By that time, Gov. George E. Pataki had appointed a commission, with its power weighted toward Albany, to chart the reconstruction of the trade center site. 
The 11-member Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, created by Mr. Pataki three weeks after Mr. Bloomberg was elected, consists of seven people chosen by the governor and four chosen by Rudolph W. Giuliani, who was still mayor at the time. Its executive director is one of Mr. Pataki's closest confidants, a businessman who lives in Voorheesville, N.Y., about 160 miles north of New York City.
Mr. Pataki, who is facing re-election this November, moved swiftly to appoint the commission and assure his control of the process, after a mayoral campaign in which Mr. Bloomberg argued against the creation of a state-city commission. Mr. Bloomberg said he believed such a commission would hinder rather than help the rebuilding process. An aide said yesterday that Mr. Bloomberg's view on that had not changed.
Characteristically, Mr. Bloomberg has avoided criticizing Mr. Pataki on the subject, repeatedly stating that he could work with the arrangements and that the appointees chosen by Mr. Giuliani were reviewed by him before they were put in place. He has noted as well his personal and business relationship with the chairman of the corporation, John C. Whitehead.
But the unexpectedly fast pace of the cleanup means that decisions about what to do with the site, which once seemed a long way off, suddenly seem to be nearly around the corner. And with that forced focus, some of Mr. Bloomberg's advisers, as well as some Democratic officials with no ties to Mr. Bloomberg, are expressing some reservations about the development corporation, suggesting that the current mayor finds himself being judged as a result of a process over which he has only partial control.
One of Mr. Bloomberg's advisers tautly speculated that the Bloomberg reconstruction effort would inevitably be measured against the speed and efficiency of the cleanup effort that was largely overseen by Mr. Giuliani.
The complexities have become particularly apparent in recent days, with the announcement by some corporations that they were moving employees out of New York, and with the growing signs of struggle between family members of victims and business leaders about how much of the site should be turned into a memorial. Several political leaders noted the juxtaposition of those developments with the notably deliberate pace of the development corporation, as it slowly prepares for the decisions ahead.
"It is a big issue, and my sense is so far, Bloomberg hasn't really grabbed a hold of it and said, 'This is going to be my issue,' " said William B. Eimicke, a political science professor at Columbia University. "This could be a signature for him. If you really want to be poetic, this could be him picking up the torch from Rudy: Rudy led us through the crisis, and Bloomberg does the revitalization. Comes up with the grand plan. And that's his signature."
In recent days, Mr. Bloomberg has seemed to be trying to seize some control over the process. He has taken to pointedly noting that Mr. Giuliani's appointees serve "at my pleasure," suggesting that he may replace them if he is unhappy with their performance, a conclusion that an aide to Mr. Bloomberg said was based on a private assurance given to the new mayor by Mr. Pataki.
Even if Mr. Bloomberg signed off on the Giuliani appointees, he clearly does not view them as part of his team. In recent days, Mr. Bloomberg's advisers have gone out of their way to note that one of Mr. Giuliani's appointees is Robert M. Harding, a former deputy mayor, who Mr. Bloomberg's aides said had not given the new mayor a complete briefing on a tentative deal Mr. Giuliani had worked out with the Yankees and the Mets about constructing new stadiums.
Mr. Bloomberg will devote a large part of his first annual address to the City Council today to his views on the future of the site, one adviser said.
And Mr. Bloomberg's deputy mayor for economic development, Daniel L. Doctoroff, has been a constant figure at the early meetings of the board, according to board members. Mr. Doctoroff asserted that the city would be able to wield control over the process, notwithstanding the lopsided makeup of the board.
"Undoubtedly, there are going to be issues where people disagree," Mr. Doctoroff said. But, he added, "everybody recognizes that this is the future of Lower Manhattan, and therefore New York City, and that New York City has got to play a critical role in defining its future."
That said, the commission remains a long way off from struggling with the difficult issues that await it. Until now, Mr. Bloomberg was consumed with the process of putting together a government, preparing for the annual address to the Council and drafting his first budget.
To a certain extent, there is a bit of a dance going on between Mr. Pataki and Mr. Bloomberg. The standings of both men will be enhanced with a successful resolution of this project; just as surely, each could be hurt if the project falters, or if there is any perception that the two men are quarreling over a project of such import.
All this is going on during what has traditionally been a period of adjustment in New York, when a new mayor tries to establish a relationship with a governor. Historically, this is a relationship fraught with competition and friction, though aides to both men were quick to say that that would not be the case over this issue.
"It's really important that the city of New York and the state of New York, that the governor and the mayor, work very closely together," said Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, who is one of Mr. Pataki's senior advisers. "It means the mayor and the governor working very closely. And so far -- and I have no reason to see anything different -- right now they have a great working relationship."
And the mayor and the governor have different needs here. Mr. Bloomberg is four years away from another election, assuming he runs again. Mr. Pataki faces re-election this November, and thus can ill afford to let the process run out of control. Several Republicans and Democrats noted that beyond the emotional and aesthetic forces at play, the reconstruction project will involve the awarding of billions of dollars in work to all kinds of companies and firms, including many that have long been supportive of Mr. Pataki's political campaigns.
Still, in the end, it seems likely that the mayor of New York is the one who will be judged by what happens on the patch of land where the World Trade Center once stood. Mr. Doctoroff said that the meetings of the development board to date have been notable for their comity, but it seems inevitable that there will be difficult times ahead.
"Somebody has got to be the leader here," Mr. Eimicke said. "Someone has to pull this consensus together. And the obvious leader here is the mayor."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); HIJACKING (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); TERRORISM (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); POLITICS (69%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



932 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE UNION; 
Democrats' Response: Trying to Put Aside Partisanship

 BODY:
Following is the Democratic response, given by Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House minority leader, to President Bush's State of the Union address, as recorded by The New York Times:
 I want to commend the president for his strong and patriotic message tonight. And I can assure you of this: there were two parties tonight in the House chamber, but one resolve. 
 Like generations that came before us, we will pay any price and bear any burden to make sure that this proud nation wins the first war of the 21st century.
Tonight, we say to our men and women in uniform thank you for your bravery, your skill and your sacrifice. When the history of this time is written, your courage will be listed in its proudest pages. 
To our friends around the world, we say thank you for your aid and support. True friendship is tested not only in treaties and trade, but in times of trial.
To our enemies, we say with one voice, no act of violence, no threat will drive us apart or steer us from our course, to protect America and preserve our democracy. And make no mistake about it. We're going to hunt you down and make you pay.
Now is not a time for finger pointing or politics as usual. The men and women who are defending our freedom are not fighting for the Democratic Party or the Republican Party. They're fighting for the greatest country that's ever existed on earth, the United States of America.
As Americans, we need to put partisanship aside and work together to solve the problems that face us. On the day after the attacks, I went to the Oval Office for a meeting with the president. I said, "Mr. President, we have to find a way to work together." I said, "We have to trust you, and you have to trust us."
Since that day, there's been no daylight between us in this war on terrorism. We've met almost every single week and built a bipartisan consensus that is helping America win this war.
We also know that to defeat terrorism, our economy must be strong. For all the things that have changed in our world over the past four months, the needs of our families have not. While our attention has shifted, our values have not.
We know that real security depends not just on justice abroad, but creating good jobs at home; not just on securing our borders, but strengthening Social Security and Medicare at home; not just on bringing governments together, but creating a government here at home that lives within its means, cuts wasteful spending and invests in the future. 
Real security depends not just on meeting threats around the world, but living up to our highest values here at home.
Our values call for tax cuts that promote growth and prosperity for all Americans. Our values call for protecting Social Security, and not gambling it away on the stock market. Our values call for helping patients and older Americans, not just big H.M.O.'s and pharmaceutical companies, ensuring that seniors don't have to choose between food and medicine. Our values call for helping workers who have lost their 401(k) plans and protecting pensions from corporate mismanagement and abuse. Our values call for helping the unemployed, not just large corporations and the most fortunate.
These same values guide us as we work toward a long-term plan for our nation. We want to roll up our sleeves and work with our president to end America's dependence on foreign oil while preserving our environment, so we don't see gas prices jump every year.
We want to work together to recruit high-quality teachers and invest more in our schools while demanding more from them. We want to say to every student who wants to go to college and every worker who wants to update their skills the first $10,000 of your education should be tax deductible.
We want to work together to raise the minimum wage, because nobody who works hard and plays by the rules should be forced to live in poverty. We want to work together to create a universal pension system that follows a worker from job to job through life and protects employees from the next Enron.
We want to work together to build our new economy, creating jobs by investing in technology, so America can continue to lead the world in growth and opportunity. We want to work together to improve homeland security and protect our borders, to keep out those people who want to bring us harm but also to celebrate our nation's diversity and welcome those hard-working immigrants who pay taxes and keep our country strong. We want to work together, as we have over the last decade, to continue to build the best-trained best-equipped fighting force on the face of the planet.
I refuse to accept that while we stand shoulder to shoulder on the war, we should stand toe to toe on the economy. We need to find a way to respect each other and trust each other and work together to solve the long-term challenges America faces. 
I'm ready to roll up my sleeves and go to work. That's one of the reasons I've proposed that next month a group of leaders from both parties come together at the White House for an economic growth summit to figure out how we're going to help businesses create jobs, reduce the deficit, simplify the tax code and grow our economy.
To accomplish these goals, we need a political system that's worthy of the people of this country. In the next several weeks, the House of Representatives will once again consider campaign finance reform. If the nation's largest bankruptcy, coupled with a clear example of paid political influence, isn't a prime case for reform, I don't know what is. The forces aligned against this are powerful. So if you've never called or written your member of Congress, now is the time. I hope the president will stand with us to clean up the political system and get big money out of politics.
Our nation's been through a lot the past four months. If it's even possible to suggest a silver lining in this dark cloud that's fallen over our nation, it's the renewed sense of community that we've seen across America. The more we're able to turn that renewed sense of purpose into a new call for service, to encourage more Americans, young and old, to get involved -- join Americorps, the Peace Corps, the military or other endeavors -- the more we're going to make our nation a model for all the good things that terrorists hate us for -- hope, opportunity and freedom.
It was brought home to me how Americans are already answering that call when I spoke to a friend of mine, who's the head of a postal union. Shortly after we learned of the anthrax threat, I asked how he was doing. "Not well," he said. "We've lost two workers, and some are sick." 
He said: "I went to New Jersey, where they had some of the biggest problems. Because of anthrax, all the workers were working in a tent exposed to the cold, hand sorting the mail."
He said: "I thought I was going to get an earful. But when I asked for questions, a man stood up and said, 'I've been a postal worker for 30 years. We're here and we're going to stay here. And if we've got to be outside all winter, we're going to stay here. The mail is going out. The terrorists will not win.' "
As one American said, the terrorists who attacked us wanted to teach us a lesson. They wanted us to know them. But these attacks make clear they don't know us. They don't know what we'll do to defend freedom, and they don't know what they've started. But they're beginning to find out.
As we look ahead to the future, we do so with the knowledge that we can never fully know what the men and women we lost on that day would have accomplished. We can never know what would have been the full measure of their lives or what they would have contributed to our world if they had lived. But one thing is certain. It is up to all of us to redeem the lives they would have lived with the lives we live today and to make the most of our time here on earth. Let us be up to that challenge.
Thank you. God bless you and God bless America. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TERRORISM (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); TAX LAW (68%); BORDER CONTROL (66%); SOCIAL SECURITY (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); MEDICARE (60%); ARMED FORCES (55%); JOB CREATION (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REP); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



933 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE UNION: THE DEMOCRATS; 
Gephardt Puts Emphasis on Common Ground on War

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
Faced with a popular president rallying the nation for a long struggle against terrorism, Democrats sought tonight to stand united with President Bush in the war effort and to showcase their own competing domestic agendas without appearing partisan or confrontational.
 Time and again, Democrats rose to their feet along with Republicans to cheer Mr. Bush. And the conciliatory tone, unusual for a Congressional election year, was underscored by one of the Democrats' most familiar figures, Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House minority leader, who gave his party's official televised response to the State of the Union address. 
 Mr. Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat who is a possible presidential contender in 2004, showed little partisan edge, beginning with a tribute to the United States' fighting forces and a warning to enemies that "we are going to hunt you down and make you pay." 
"Now is not a time for finger- pointing or politics as usual," he said from his Capitol office.
He urged that the same spirit of bipartisan unity that marked the war against terrorism be extended to deliberations on the lagging economy.
"I refuse to accept that while we stand shoulder to shoulder on the war, we should stand toe to toe on the economy," Mr. Gephardt said, suggesting that the president hold a bipartisan "economic growth summit" at the White House. "We need to find a way to respect each other, and trust each other and work together to solve the long-term challenges America faces."
The White House has already rejected Mr. Gephardt's calls for such a bipartisan summit, saying last week that the Democrat was seeking to score political points.
With control of the narrowly divided House and Senate at stake this year, Democrats have been seeking to regain their footing in a political landscape altered by the Sept. 11 attacks. And not all members of the party were quite as conciliatory today, some choosing a more aggressive stance on domestic issues and criticizing the president's continuing passion for tax cuts.
"We Democrats do not share the president's values on how to stimulate the economy," said Representative Robert Menendez of New Jersey. "Corporate tax cuts will not create jobs. They will simply add to the bottom line of stockholders."
And Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York called the president a practitioner of "Enron economics: giving more money to rich people and large corporations and hoping it will trickle down to everybody else."
But many Democrats said that with Mr. Bush's approval ratings at extraordinarily high levels and the State of the Union address representing one of a president's most potent platforms, it was not a night to issue sharp challenges.
"We have some differences, and those will play out in the course of the year," said Representative Martin Frost, Democrat of Texas. "We don't necessarily need to stake out all the differences in January."
In fact, Mr. Gephardt only indirectly challenged Republican positions on issues like the privatization of Social Security, regulation of health maintenance organizations and how to stimulate the economy. And though he mentioned the collapse of the energy trading company Enron, he did not openly use the company as a political cudgel against the Bush administration.
"Our values call for tax cuts that promote growth and prosperity for all Americans," Mr. Gephardt said. "Our values call for protecting Social Security and not gambling it away on the stock market. Our values call for helping patients and older Americans -- not just big H.M.O.'s and pharmaceutical companies -- ensuring that seniors don't have to choose between food and medicine."
He added, "Our values call for helping the unemployed -- not just large corporations and the most fortunate." Mr. Gephardt also said the Enron debacle underscored the need to overhaul campaign finance laws. 
He closed his speech with a salute to the Americans killed on Sept. 11.
"We can never know what would have been the full measures of their lives, or what they would have contributed to our world if they had lived," Mr. Gephardt said. "But one thing is certain: It's up to all of us to redeem the lives they would have lived with the lives we live today, and to make the most of our time here on earth."
With little legislation expected to pass this year, Republicans have begun a concerted campaign to brand Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the majority leader, as an obstructionist, so they can run against the Democratic-run Senate in November as a roadblock to Mr. Bush's agenda. Several times this afternoon, Representative Dick Armey, the House majority leader, criticized "Daschle's delinquency."
The Democrats' calls for cooperation set the stage for them to try to shift the blame back to Republicans should legislation stall. Mr. Daschle sounded conciliatory, too, tonight, saying, "With a renewed commitment to compromise from both sides, I believe that we can put our economy back on track, win the war against terror and meet our nation's great unmet goals." 
The choice of Mr. Gephardt to speak for the Democrats deflected some of the political heat from Mr. Daschle. But party officials said that had not been their intent and that they routinely rotated the party's response between the House and Senate.
Democrats said they would have a better chance to spell out their differences when Mr. Bush submits his budget on Monday and Americans see the program cuts needed to make way for the president's tax cut and proposals to increase spending on security and the military. 
"Long after we defeat the terrorists, we will have to live with the consequences of this budget," warned Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Richard A. Gephardt prepared last night for his speech in response to President Bush's State of the Union Message. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); JOB CREATION (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%); JERROLD NADLER (58%) MITCHELL, ALISON; GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REP); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



934 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1910 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE UNION: THE OVERVIEW; 
BUSH, FOCUSING ON TERRORISM, SAYS SECURE U.S. IS TOP PRIORITY

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
President Bush told Americans tonight that "our war against terror is only beginning" and sent new warnings to terrorists around the world and to three nations -- Iran, Iraq and North Korea. 
 Using unusually strong language, he charged that "states like these and their terrorist allies constitute an axis of evil," choosing a word once used to describe the alliance of Germany, Italy and Japan during World War II. 
 In his first State of the Union address, Mr. Bush seemed to be outlining a rationale for future action, if he deems it necessary, not only against terrorists but against any hostile states developing weapons of mass destruction.
The president stressed the need to act quickly, when the country and the world are united against terrorism and the nations that support it. 
"We will be deliberate, yet time is not on our side," he said. "I will not wait on events, while dangers gather. I will not stand by, as peril draws closer and closer. The United States of America will not permit the world's most dangerous regimes to threaten us with the world's most destructive weapons." 
In haunting words of warning, Mr. Bush said American intelligence now believed that tens of thousands of potential terrorists have been trained by Al Qaeda in Afghanistan since 1996 and "are now spread throughout the world like ticking time bombs -- set to go off without warning." Transcript, Page A22. 
Mr. Bush vowed to use the national unity forged by the war against terrorism toward the twin causes of creating jobs for those worst hit by the recession and promoting a spirit of national service.
He offered few words of optimism about America's economic outlook, sounding more cautious about the prospects for a turnaround than the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, did in an appearance before Congress on Thursday.
The president appeared both vigorous and confident tonight; gone were the deep lines that marked his face during the first month after the attacks. More comfortable than ever in the formal setting of the House, he was mostly free of the verbal stumbles that sometimes mark his speech, and he struck tones of deep passion when he talked of the war, its victims and its effects on the national soul. 
Mr. Bush filled the spectator seats with heroes and widows of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and their aftermath, symbols of an America that he asserted was already prevailing over its enemies. 
He described a country made stronger by tragedy -- "those of us who have lived through these challenging times have been changed by them," he said -- and he called on all adults to devote two years or 4,000 hours of their lives to volunteer activities. He talked of an expanded Peace Corps and a new USA Freedom Corps, an umbrella organization that will gather existing public service organizations with new ones intended to help guard American shores and rebuild blighted cities. 
But Mr. Bush's calls for lower taxes, expanded trade and new energy production seemed to pale next to the emotional center of his speech, a celebration of America's slow recovery from Sept. 11.
He expanded his definition of America's immediate defensive goals, saying he would soon deal with countries that make the nuclear and biological weapons that terrorists covet.
He vowed that their efforts to develop nuclear and biological weapons would be stopped.
Disclosing new American intelligence findings, Mr. Bush said that in digging through Al Qaeda's hideouts, "we have found diagrams of American nuclear power plants and public water facilities," along with instructions for manufacturing chemical weapons and maps of major American cities and their landmarks. A senior intelligence official, reached after the speech tonight, said the documents came from Al Qaeda homes and caves in Afghanistan, but the official would not talk about when they were acquired or what cities or plants appeared on the diagrams. 
Despite the chilling discovery, Mr. Bush tried, mostly through symbolism, to convey the sense that the United States now understands its enemy and feels a new confidence.
Vice President Dick Cheney sat behind him, making tonight the first time the men have appeared together at a state event since the terrorist attacks. And sitting with Laura Bush were an array of men and women who symbolized the battle, including Shannon Spann, the widow of the C.I.A. officer killed in Afghanistan, and the two flight attendants, Cristina Jones and Hermis Moutardier, who helped seize a terrorist suspect on a flight from Paris before he could light explosives in his shoes.
But there were subjects Mr. Bush avoided. He never uttered the name Osama bin Laden, who has eluded capture and remains the subject of an intense manhunt but is also a symbol of what remains incomplete in Mr. Bush's campaign in Afghanistan.
Nor did he mention the Enron Corporation, the collapsing energy concern once run by one of Mr. Bush's biggest political supporters, Kenneth L. Lay. Instead, he talked of the need to revise pension laws so that workers who "save all their lives should not have to risk losing everything if their company fails." And he called for "stricter accounting standards and tougher disclosure requirements" that would make corporations "more accountable to employees and shareholders" -- subjects that Mr. Bush never talked about in his past addresses to the country or in his presidential campaign. 
In the Democratic Party's response, Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the minority leader, was far more specific about Enron and its many political connections.
Mr. Bush did not mention the dispute over how to deal with Al Qaeda and Taliban fighters held in Guantanamo Bay, which has divided his administration. 
He never talked about the tinderbox of the Middle East, though his top aides said tonight that he had discussed the issue so much in recent weeks that they did not believe further discussion was necessary. 
Tonight's State of the Union speech was Mr. Bush's first, but the appearance was his third before a joint session of Congress. 
The first was a bit more than a month into his presidency, when Mr. Bush delivered his budget message. He had celebrated "a balanced budget, big surpluses, a military that is second to none, a country at peace." A year later, the balanced budget and big surpluses are gone, the military has proven itself in an unconventional war, and the peace has been shattered.
His second appearance, on Sept. 20, came when the shock of the terrorist attacks was fresh. That speech -- one a member of his staff said today was "a moment that we knew we couldn't match tonight" -- set the nation on the path to war. 
From the very beginning of his speech tonight, Mr. Bush tried to capture the odd moment in history he found himself in -- a moment of soaring popularity despite a significant recession, the beginning of a war with no end point. 
"Our nation is at war, our economy is in recession, and the civilized world faces unprecedented dangers," he said. Then, repeating the declaration that virtually all of his predecessors have uttered in one form or another, he said, "Yet the state of our union has never been stronger."
He spoke of liberating Afghanistan in three months, and pointed to the country's interim chairman, Hamid Karzai, who sat in the balcony along with his minister of women's affairs, Dr. Sima Samar. 
Mr. Bush pulled at the heartstrings with tales from the wreckage of the World Trade Center, recounting the story of a little boy who "left his football with a note for his lost father: 'Dear Daddy, Please take this to Heaven. I don't want to play football until I can play with you again someday.' " 
And he described, vaguely, the outlines of the expanding war: American troops in the Philippines to help root out terrorist cells, and a Navy patrolling the Horn of Africa to block weapons and stop Al Qaeda terrorists from seeking refuge in Somalia.
But as Mr. Bush described the world as his battlefield, he gave no hint of where he would next turn his attentions. For all his talk about the threat posed by Iraq, he made no threats and set no deadlines, and he never discussed the objections his closest allies have raised to taking the war there. 
His discussion of the nuclear and biological threat posed by hostile nations was clearly intended to build support for action there, though his aides said tonight that he had not meant to imply that military force was his only option. 
"There are other instruments, including economic ones," a senior official told reporters tonight.
By comparison, Mr. Bush discussed relatively few new weapons in his war on recession. "We will prevail in the war, and we will defeat this recession," he said, a politically significant effort to link the two.
As he has done so often in recent weeks, Mr. Bush focused his economic discussion on job creation. Yet he seemed to have little new to offer in the way of a legislative agenda.
He called for passage of his energy plan, one set back by questions about whether Enron influenced its development in Mr. Cheney's office. "This Congress must act to encourage conservation, promote technology build infrastructure, and it must act to increase energy production at home," he said. 
He had invited the president of the Teamsters, James P. Hoffa, to join the guests -- chiefly for his support of drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, which would create thousands of union jobs.
He asked the Senate to give him authority to negotiate trade accords, as the House did last year. But he devoted only a paragraph to tax policy and stopped well short of his vow early this month that Congress would halt last year's tax cut package "over my dead body."
Tonight came the far milder version: "For the sake of long-term growth and to help American plan for the future, let's make these tax cuts permanent." He did, however, indirectly invoke a nontraditional economist -- Goldilocks -- to defend last year's tax cut.
"Last year, some in this hall thought my tax relief plan was too small," he said, "and some thought it was too big. But when those checks arrived in the mail, most Americans thought tax relief was just right." The Congress erupted in self-congratulatory applause.
But toward the end of his speech, Mr. Bush ventured into new territory, when he said Sept. 11 had brought about a cultural change in America. 
"For too long our culture has said, 'If it feels good, do it,' " he said. "Now America is embracing a new ethic and a new creed: Let's roll." His preferred path to creating that culture, he said, was volunteer service, and he vowed to create a new USA Freedom Corps that would extend "American compassion throughout the world."
Mr. Bush talked in general terms of aiding the developing world, and particularly the Islamic world, to achieve both economic and educational development. 
"We have no intention of imposing our culture," Mr. Bush said, "But America will always stand firm for the nonnegotiable demands of human dignity: the rule of law, limits on the power of the state, respect for women, private property, free speech, equal justice and religious tolerance." 
His list was telling because it demonstrated that his plans, at their core, involve creating a world that is in America's image. But he said that America's enemies have less to sell: "They embrace tyranny and death as a cause and creed. We stand for a different choice, made long ago, on the day of our founding. We affirm it again today."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pages reached out to shake President Bush's hand last night as he neared the House exit. The evening also was the first time since Sept. 11 that Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney were together at a major event. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A21); President Bush said he would use the unity forged by war to create jobs and promote service. Vice President Cheney joined him for the speech. (Win McNamee/Reuters)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (98%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (86%); AL-QAEDA (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); POLITICS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); VOLUNTEERS (70%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); JOB CREATION (64%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (60%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; NATIONAL SERVICE (US); VOLUNTEERS; ENERGY AND POWER; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%) ;ENRON CORP; AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); DICK CHENEY (74%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GERMANY (72%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); IRAN; IRAQ; NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



935 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: THE POLITICS; 
G.O.P. Senators Divide Over Disclosing Information on Enron-White House Contacts

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. and ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29 

 BODY:
With the White House preparing for a showdown over its refusal to tell Congress about contacts between Enron and the administration's energy task force, House Republican leaders backed the White House today. Several Republican senators, however, varied from the party line.
 After a morning meeting with President Bush, the Republican House speaker, Dennis Hastert, and the majority leader, Dick Armey, came down staunchly in the White House camp. Echoing the often-repeated White House position, Mr. Hastert said, "I think it's proprietary information. 
 "If any elected member of Congress went down to talk to the president, I think they would be shocked and chagrined to know that their information was being disseminated," he continued.
But Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, speaking after the weekly lunch of Republican senators, said the White House should disclose the information.
Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, said she thought Congress should have some access to information about the meetings, but hoped the White House and the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, would settle the dispute without a lawsuit.
And Senator Fred Thompson of Tennessee, the senior Republican on the Governmental Affairs Committee, has said that while the law is on the administration's side, it would be politically wise to disclose the records.
Patrick H. Wood III, chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, appeared at a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing this morning. He told the panel that Enron's collapse could be a problem for efforts to build power plants, although he said the company's demise had not damaged energy markets.
Other experts told the panel that Enron's onetime dominance in energy and derivative markets points to the need for greater disclosure of energy-trading data. And several senators from Western states suggested that long-term power contracts signed when prices soared last year could be ripped up if evidence shows that Enron artificially inflated prices.
Mr. Wood said that Enron "has not caused damage to the nation's energy trading or energy markets." The company collapsed, he said, not because of flaws in the energy market but because of questionable investments and accounting.
But he added that a slowdown in new power plants and other energy-related construction caused, he said, by the economic slowdown and the impact Enron's collapse has had on investors -- "could be problematic in some regions as the economy recovers and demand for energy grows."
Mr. Wood also said he did not think there was evidence that Enron manipulated California energy prices, but he agreed to a request by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, that the energy commission investigate assertions that Enron may have been able to inflate prices for certain long-term power contracts by more than 30 percent.
In the House, investigators demanded that Arthur Andersen turn over records of any consulting work done for the complicated maze of hidden Enron partnerships that investigators say played a large role in the company's collapse. Andersen is under fire for its audits of Enron and its acknowledged destruction of Enron documents.
The General Accounting Office, led by David M. Walker, the comptroller general of the United States, has suggested that it is very likely soon to file a lawsuit against the administration to force it to hand over records of meetings held last spring between the energy task force, which was headed by Vice President Dick Cheney, and executives from Enron and other companies concerned about the nation's energy policy.
Enron executives met with officials on the energy task force five times, and the group's eventual recommendations contained much of what Enron had sought, though the policy recommendations also reflected positions embraced by many in the industry and the government.
At the White House today, Ari Fleischer, the press secretary, reiterated that the Bush administration believes that investigators are overstepping their authority and that the accounting office is seeking to encroach on records that are covered by executive privilege and whose disclosure would hurt the administration's ability to obtain outside advice.
Mr. Fleischer said that a compromise was unlikely and that there were no negotiations under way that could avert a legal battle with the accounting office.
Mr. Walker said that the White House had mischaracterized what the G.A.O. was seeking and that his office was "not asking for nearly as much as they say we are." He has said that his office wants the dates, names of those attending and general topics discussed at the meetings, but not details like minutes of the meetings or notes of conversations.
Asked about the comments by Mr. Hastert and Mr. Armey, Mr. Walker added: "When they had their press conference, they only had the White House side of the story. They now have our side." Mr. Walker declined to say whether he had spoken with the two leaders today.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patrick H. Wood III, third from left, chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, at a Senate hearing on Enron. He said Enron's collapse could be problematic for efforts to build power plants. (Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (73%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (69%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (67%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); ETHICS (66%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (63%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE, DOCTRINE OF; ENERGY AND POWER 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (82%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (82%) ENRON CORP; GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE; FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (73%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (73%); FRED THOMPSON (72%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER); ARMEY, DICK (REP); GRASSLEY, CHARLES E (SEN); HUTCHISON, KAY BAILEY (SEN); THOMPSON, FRED (SEN); WOOD, PATRICK H III; FLEISCHER, ARI (REPR); OPPEL, RICHARD A JR; PEAR, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002 



936 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL SHOPPER; 
Fish, Wine, Music, For Every Wall

BYLINE:  By Marianne Rohrlich 

 BODY:
 ECONOMIC uncertainty usually results in few new products. But a surprising variety of fresh designs was shown at the New York International Gift Fair, the semiannual wholesale marketplace that took place last week at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. The booths in the "accent on design" area, showing contemporary furnishings and housewares, were filled with innovative products, which used plastics and paper in unexpected ways. While last year's show emphasized flourishes and patterns, like toile de jouey, this year simple lines and clean surfaces prevailed. 

1. Gloria, a velvet, silk and cotton quilt by Elsa C. of Paris, looks almost Amish. It comes in twin and full/queen sizes or as a 59-inch-square throw ($325 to $825) and can be ordered from Ad Hoc Softwares, 136 Wooster Street (Prince Street).

2. Two white ceramic vases from Thailand, the Mushroom and the AX, look like sculptures. They are by Green Papayas, $40 each at Lynn Park, a new store at 51 Wooster Street (Broome Street).

3. The Pod, a wall-mounted plastic fishbowl, can also hold plants or flowers. It was designed by Craig Varterian of Boom and is $28 at Mxyplyzyk, 125 Greenwich Avenue (13th Street).

4. A ceiling light fixture named Norm 69 comes in a box of 69 plastic pieces, which can be assembled without tools or glue. It was designed in 1969 by a Danish architect, Simon Karkov, and comes in white or cream and in two sizes, 20 inches high ($105) or 16 1/2 inches ($85). At C.I.T.E, 100 Wooster Street (Spring Street) and at Mxyplyzyk.

5. A wall-mounted wine rack made of powder-coated steel in black, white or silver comes in four-bottle modules. Designed by Tom Sharp and Dennis Lenarduzzi for Hothouse, they are $49.99 each at On Design, 8140 New Utrecht Avenue in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn; (718) 621-5543.

6. The Dumpling table lamp, from Butter for Pure Design, has a fiberglass shade and a metal base; $120 at Totem Design, 83 Grand Street (Wooster Street).

7. Plastic Scoop chairs by Finn Stone come in two sizes, adult ($350) and child ($160), and in four colors: white, red, orange or black. A small table with holes to hold a drink and a vase is powder blue or white and costs $150; both are at Lancelotti, 66 Avenue A (Fifth Street).

8. CD Wallpaper, by Robert Jacobs, a Dutch designer, is 23 1/2 by 35 1/2 inches and holds an impressive 132 discs. It is made of the kind of strong waxed cardboard used for milk cartons and costs $80; a smaller version is $60; at Breukelen, 68 Gansevoort Street (Washington Street).

9. The Cross-Pod by Umbra is a two-piece ottoman that becomes two seats and a table, or four seats -- or two tables. It is made of high-density foam with a dark gray and red polyester cover and costs $150. For stores: (800) 387-5122.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCT INNOVATION (73%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (68%) HOME FURNISHINGS; NEW YORK INTERNATIONAL GIFT FAIR 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (51%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (51%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%)

PERSON: ROHRLICH, MARIANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); THAILAND (71%); NETHERLANDS (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



937 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: ARTS ABROAD; 
The Irish Are Delighted by Their Museum's New Wing

BYLINE:  By Brian Lavery 

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Last week the National Gallery of Ireland unveiled the first collection of French Impressionist works ever seen in this country. The landmark exhibition, on loan from the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, proved wildly popular even before it arrived: tickets for the first two weekends sold out shortly after they went on sale in November.
 It comes as little surprise, however, that people are not talking all that much about the 69 works by Monet, Renoir, Cezanne and Gauguin. The works are on display in the gallery's long-awaited Millennium Wing, and with a mixture of curiosity and pride the crowds are apparently more intent on inspecting the architecture than the paintings. 
 Despite the building boom that accompanied Ireland's roaring economy in the 1990's, the country has no other striking example of truly modern design. With a monolithic white facade, marked by a large square protuberance and a ground level wall of glass, the Millennium Wing has dramatically altered the complexion of Dublin's streets, otherwise lined with stately Georgian houses. Yet it has not stirred up any of the controversy that usually accompanies the introduction of public works here. Instead, it has earned universal acclaim, in loud voices.
Even the most curmudgeonly critics seem to bite their tongues once they step inside. Alabaster-white stone walls soar to a luminous ceiling 60 feet above. A gigantic tapestry with a sea of rainbow teardrops hangs to the side, like the building's personally tailored dream coat. Cascading steps, buoyant on cushions of light, recede far into the distance. Visitors wander forward, enticed by flowing lines, mysterious spaces and the faint bouquet of lilacs.
"You feel like this is ours," said Noel Sheridan, director of the National College of Art and Design. "Dublin really needs this. It really brings us into the league of European capitals."
What better way to draw the public into the gallery than with the Impressionists' bright colors and soft forms and bunches of lilacs tucked into the new wing's many nooks and crannies? Skeptics have slighted the exhibition as a "chocolate box" show because Impressionist works so often decorate candy containers here. They also mention that the exhibition doesn't have any of the best-known Impressionist paintings.
But few people are begrudging the gallery or the exhibition any of their success. The show does have Monet's glowing haystacks at sunset, his perfectly arced footbridge over the water at Giverny and his snowy countrysides. It does have Renoir's radiant young women and works by van Gogh, Corot, Millet and Sisley. The gallery expects 100,000 visitors by the exhibition's close in April.
The show is Ireland's biggest art sensation since 1993, when the National Gallery exhibited Caravaggio's "Taking of Christ." That painting was discovered when a Jesuit rectory in Dublin asked gallery experts to assess a painting that was hanging in its dining hall. It was found to be the original of a work frequently copied and long thought lost.
The new wing and the exhibit represent a crowning achievement for the gallery's director, Raymond Keaveney. When property next to the gallery came on the market in 1988, he sought private funds to buy it because the cash-strapped Irish government offered nothing. He argued that without the land, the gallery would be landlocked forever. He sent the gallery's collection of Irish Impressionists on a world tour, which brought in funds and established valuable connections, leading to the loan of the current show from Boston. Dublin is the only European destination for this exhibition.
The expansion project began in earnest in 1996 with a design competition, but plans by the British architects Benson & Forsyth were threatened in 1998 when Irish conservation groups objected to the demolition of two Georgian houses on the property. Benson & Forsyth adapted their plans to retain the two exterior facades and to incorporate their interiors into the Millennium Wing's restaurant. The changes reduced the wing's exhibition space by 30,000 square feet and created the pleasantly incongruous sight of two Georgian structures in the main entrance hall, which Mr. Keaveney calls "archaeological details."
"It was Mies Van Der Rohe who said that less is more, but I'm not sure he meant losing half your building and still going ahead," he said at the opening ceremonies.
The project faced minor challenges even until the first Champagne cork was popped. The 40-foot wool tapestry in the entrance hall -- commissioned from the Irish artist Louis Le Brocquy and woven by the Aubusson studio in Paris -- nearly proved too heavy to hang. It lay spread out on the floor with a hand-written sign on it: "Do not walk on the tapestry." Workmen on scaffolding tried to install stronger hooks and towered over others who were caulking the stone steps. 
"In qualitative terms, it's unparalleled in Irish architecture in the last 20 years," said Bruce Arnold, an Irish cultural critic and historian. He likened the bucket seats of black ash that are irregularly carved into the white stone as reminiscent of an Irish castle from the Middle Ages. In the exhibition halls, the new wing and the older building are linked on many levels. The result can occasionally be confusing, but it ensures that neither section leaves the other behind.
User-friendly elements include a bridge across the main atrium to carry visitors through the top floor exhibition space without backtracking. Mr. Sheridan said he hoped the Millennium Wing would encourage people to engage more directly with the art and also to follow the guidelines of one of Mr. Keaveney's predecessors who encouraged visitors to feel comfortable by posting signs reading, "Do not Lower your voice."
Mr. Sheridan said: "People are going in like they used to go to Mass, the holiness of the sacraments and all that. They need to get out of that mindset."
The expansion also gives the National Gallery space to exhibit some of its recent acquisitions and to add new functions like a study center for Irish art and an archive for material about the artist Jack B. Yeats. Future exhibits include works from the Detroit Institute of Arts from the 18th to early 20th centuries and retrospectives on Jules Breton and Paul Henry.
"To some degree it's uncharted territory," Mr. Keaveney said, catching his breath in one of the gallery's old parlors during a break in last-minute preparations. "This is a brand new machine that we're flying here, and we don't know where all the controls are yet."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new Millennium Wing of the National Gallery in Dublin is offering the first exhibition of French Impressionist works in Ireland. (Derek Speirs for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); PAINTING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (66%) ART; ARCHITECTURE 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF IRELAND (DUBLIN) 

PERSON: LAVERY, BRIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (92%); EUROPE (79%) IRELAND

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



938 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Old Masters Generate Mixed Results At Auctions 

BYLINE:  By CAROL VOGEL 

 BODY:
Prices paid for artists like van Dyck and Romney broke records, but some paintings that had been on the auction market a little too recently were bargains. Then there was a rare, early Turner that did not get a single bid. Such were the vagaries of the January sales of old master paintings in New York. 
 "We're not in the 1960's anymore," said Anthony Crichton-Stuart, who runs Christie's old master paintings department in New York. "There's not been as much depth in the market as there once was, but in this round of sales there were still some really great things." 
 The buyers of old master paintings at auction are predominantly dealers. Because making a prudent purchase requires so much research, expertise and risk taking, auctions tend to be heavily populated by professionals who are so passionate about their field that even events like Sept. 11 or the rocky economy do not distract them. They cannot help themselves if the opportunity for a good buy arises. 
The problem for Sotheby's and Christie's, then, is not drumming up bidders; it is finding fresh property. For years the supply of first-rate old master paintings has been dwindling. At the same time, auction house experts in New York have been trying to compete in a field long dominated by Europeans. The spending power of Americans may be a convincing argument to pitch to prospective sellers, but London has been the epicenter of the old master universe. 
Europe is where the goods are. Britain has always been a fertile hunting ground, given all the art that has spent generations hanging on the walls of the stately homes of titled families, some of which need to sell a painting or two every few years to keep their houses. The Continent also has hidden treasures. Some end up in New York because sellers often find it cheaper to ship them to the United States than to cope with the intricacies of import taxes that ensnare dealers and collectors in European Union countries.
As usual, the important paintings brought hefty prices last week. On Jan. 24 six buyers fought over van Dyck's "Bust of the Apostle Peter," one of a set of 13 panels at Sotheby's. Estimated to fetch $600,000 to $800,000, it brought $3.1 million, a record for that artist. The price raised no eyebrows in the salesroom, but the buyer did. 
It was Pascal Zuber, a Christie's expert from Paris who stood in the back of the room trying to blend in with the crowd that normally hangs out there. Afterward he told officials at Sotheby's that he was bidding on behalf of a European client.
Mr. Zuber bought another van Dyck portrait in the same sale, a bust of the Apostle Thomas, for the same client. He paid $2 million, more than twice its $800,000 high estimate. Two other works that brought high prices at Sotheby's were bought for the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Sayn Wittengenstein, a Manhattan dealer, bid for them. One was Baron Gerard's "Portrait of Catherine Worlee, Princesse de Talleyrand-Perigord," (18045), that was purchased by Jayne Wrightsman, a longtime museum trustee, for $1.8 million, a record for the artist and just at the painting's high estimate. It will hang next to another of Mrs. Wrightsman's gifts, a portrait of the princess's husband, the French statesman Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand-Perigord, by Prud'hon.
The Met also bought a pastel by Carriera of Gustavus Hamilton, the Second Viscount Boyne, for $621,750, more than triple its $200,000 high estimate and a record for the artist. 
Not everything offered at Sotheby's brought such strong prices. The sale began with the mysteriously labeled "Property of a Private Collector Sold Without Reserve." In gossipy old master circles everyone knew as soon as the catalog was printed that the mystery collector was Jaqui Safra, a nephew of Edmond J. Safra, the billionaire banker who died in a fire in his Monte Carlo penthouse in 1999.
Jaqui Safra had been one of the largest buyers at old master auctions during the last decade. His name is also recognizable to movie buffs. He made headlines last summer when Woody Allen filed suit in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan against Mr. Safra; Mr. Safra's companion, Jean Doumanian; and Sweetland Films, the couple's privately held production company. Mr. Allen contends they cheated him out of profits from eight movies that Sweetland produced. 
Some people who know Mr. Safra say he is trying to raise cash; others contend that, like many passionate collectors, he is weeding out his holdings. He consigned 48 works to Sotheby's, most of which had been auctioned within the last decade. His decision to sell without reserves (the secret minimum-price guaranteed to the seller and the auction house) meant that works would go to the highest bidder regardless of market values.
New York State law requires that at a sale without reserves the auctioneer must sell everything unless nobody is willing to pay as much as $1. So it was no surprise that all 48 paintings found buyers. The sale of the 48 paintings totaled $6.2 million, less than the $7.3 million Mr. Safra paid to assemble the collection. 
When something at auction has been up for sale too recently and carries a high price, that is often a recipe for disaster. Christie's got a beating when it tried to sell an early Turner last week. The work, "Sheerness as Seen From the Nore," a powerful painting of ships in a turbulent sea, was estimated to bring $6 million to $8 million. 
The painting had several strikes against it. It was being sold by an anonymous Japanese collector who had paid about $12 million for it in 1991, which experts knew to be a ridiculously high price at the time. Moreover, early Turners are not considered as desirable as the artist's later works. And to make matters worse, the painting had been offered around quietly by Sotheby's before it went to Christie's for auction. When it came up for sale there was not a bid in sight. 
But the Christie's sale on Friday was not without its high points. Two telephone bidders tenaciously went after Mola's "Artist and a Youth," from the early 1650's. Estimated to sell for $300,000 to $500,000, the painting ignited a battle between telephones and ended up bringing $3 million, a record for the artist. 
"This was a glorious picture in perfect condition," Mr. Crichton-Stuart of Christie's said. "It had also been off the market for nearly 20 years." 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 7, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article last Thursday about auctions of old master paintings last month in New York misstated the name of a Manhattan dealer that bought two portraits for the Metropolitan Museum of Art. It was Sayn-Wittgenstein, not Sayn Wittengenstein.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (93%); AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%); IMPORT TRADE (61%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (50%) ART; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; AUCTIONS 

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (85%); SOTHEBY'S (85%)

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S; CHRISTIE'S 

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (85%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%)

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



939 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Council Leader Says Euro Is Just a Start 

BYLINE:  By EMMA DALY 

DATELINE: MADRID, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
European Union countries must seize the "great opportunities" for economic growth and put structural changes in place if they want to compete with the United States, said Rodrigo Rato, Spain's economics minister and the new chairman of the European Union's council of finance ministers.
 Despite the global downturn, "I don't think Europe has ever enjoyed such good economic conditions," he said in a recent interview, citing, among other things, the euro's embrace by the union's 300 million consumers. "But capitalizing on these opportunities will depend in great measure on the pace of reforms." 
 Spain is enthusiastic about economic change -- about liberalizing energy, telecommunications, transportation and other networks, removing restrictions and opening up markets. And it has been eagerly awaiting its six-month turn at the European Union presidency to push hard for it.
That turn began this month. And Mr. Rato, who leads the finance ministers group during the tenure, hopes to get the governments to commit themselves to concrete targets and deadlines for change at the union's summit meeting in Barcelona, Spain, in March.
Putting pressure on Argentina to come up with a credible plan to address its fiscal crisis is also high on Mr. Rato's agenda.
Mr. Rato, 52, a lawyer with an M.B.A. from the University of California at Berkeley, noted that the recent introduction of euro notes and coins had been a great success.
But he said the euro's continuing weakness against the dollar was a sign that "the markets think that the U.S. economy's ability to grow is still superior to that of the European economy, and that therefore economic recovery in the U.S. will be stronger and more durable." While that may have been true in the past, he said, it need not be so in the future.
"Economic growth, and how to achieve it, will be at the heart of political debate in Europe," he said, in a year with many national elections and therefore much focus on the issue.
Spain, which joined the European Union in 1986 as a poor relation, has one of the better economic records in Europe over the last five years. Its economy has grown more than 3 percent a year, which is more than a percentage point above the European average. Per capita income in 2001 rose to 84 percent of the union average, from 78 percent in 1996.
Spain's growth rate slowed last year, but Mr. Rato, finance minister since 1996, said Spain and the rest of the union were "over the worst."
Still, Spain has been hit particularly hard by the dire situation in Argentina. Spanish companies have some $39 billion invested there, more than those of any other country.
Although Spain, the United States and others are willing to help through the International Monetary Fund, Mr. Rato said Argentina must win back the confidence of investors and creditors. He said it needed "an economic model of sustainable growth that increases citizens' prosperity and improves social cohesion, within the rules of economic openness and financial orthodoxy."
Will there be a new I.M.F. deal? "I think we still have several weeks of negotiations ahead," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The euro is part of the economic good news for Europe, says Rodrigo Rato, Spain's economics minister. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); TRENDS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); POLITICAL DEBATES (61%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: RATO, RODRIGO (MIN); DALY, EMMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (73%) SPAIN (98%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (92%) EUROPE; SPAIN; ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



940 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: Global Forum's Agenda 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Neighbors of Economic Forum Prepare for the Worst" (news article, Jan. 30): 
 With the World Economic Forum just hours away, many New Yorkers may be fixated on the anticipated traffic congestion and confrontations between protesters and the police. 
In the midst of certain brouhaha, New Yorkers and the international community should take care to examine the important issues at the center of the tension.
From human rights to the environment, animal protection and every other area of concern, all have been on the table at global economic talks between corporate, government and financial power players in Genoa and Seattle and will surely be at the World Economic Forum.
The Enron fiasco has strengthened the call for corporate accountability; the World Economic Forum may spur further debate and action to bring about positive results in an era of global trade and increased corporate influence.

PATRICK KWAN
New York, Jan. 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RIOTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); TRENDS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (94%) WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: KWAN, PATRICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



941 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Why Are Globalizers So Provincial? 

BYLINE:  By Alice H. Amsden; Alice H. Amsden, professor of political economy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is author of "The Rise of 'The Rest': Challenges to the West From Late Industrializing Economies."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
As the world's corporate and political leaders gather in the 32nd World Economic Forum, globalization has never been greater. Business between countries was briefly paralyzed right after Sept. 11, but today's volume of international trade and investment is huge by historical standards.
 Yet globalization remains provincial, as will be apparent over the course of the forum. A smattering of rich countries exercises leadership in international organizations and world markets, despite the principle of a level playing field. The United States appoints the president of the World Bank and fights with Europe and Japan over the directorship of the International Monetary Fund. The World Trade Organization is more democratically governed, but its power structure nonetheless allows rich members to retain barriers against other members' exports of textiles, agricultural products and steel. These global institutions are, at their highest levels, surprisingly parochial. 
 Globalization's locomotive, the multinational firm, has similar limits. Its novel technologies and famous brand names conquer the planet's consumers, but the top management and advanced scientific researchers of most multinationals remain headquartered in roughly a dozen high-income countries.
The World Economic Forum's announced theme, "Leadership in Fragile Times," could not be more appropriate, because the fragility of the times might be reduced by a broadening of global leadership. Forum participants need to find how to include more people from semi-industrialized, middle-income countries in the ranks of international business leadership. What will it take?
Three groups of developing countries coexist today. The poorest have too few skills to create professionally managed firms and are in dire need of poverty alleviation -- one of the forum's core concerns. The richest group, which includes countries like South Korea and Taiwan, started the postwar period with manufacturing experience. This history helped them build domestically owned enterprises that behaved more entrepreneurially than many stodgy multinationals. Examples of companies on the road to becoming global, with thousands of small local suppliers that have been taught modern business techniques, include Embraer in Brazil (aerospace), Vitro in Mexico (glass), Legend in China (computers), Wipro in India (software), Giant in Taiwan (bicycles), the Siam group in Thailand (cement) and Samsung in Korea (electronics).
The great majority of developing countries occupy a middle ground: they now have manufacturing experience, and they want their companies to emulate those of the successful developing nations.
What enabled those successful companies to grow and flourish? In their countries, business and government worked closely together to strengthen domestic industry. Foreign enterprises were discouraged, by deliberate red tape, from entering certain industries, so that national companies could get a head start. State-owned banks lent money at subsidized rates to help local firms acquire the technologies and capital equipment they needed. Where corruption existed, it tended to be confined to raw-materials industries. In much of manufacturing, subsidies were allocated by professional bureaucracies according to relatively transparent procedures. State support for business was often tied to strict performance standards and closely monitored.
Advanced economies have watched the rise of these companies with admiration and alarm. One result has been that the types of promotional measures used successfully by countries like Taiwan and Thailand no longer have the support of international organizations. These measures are now identified as protectionist and unfair.
To join the international trading system, nations must now agree to the radical notion of a level playing field and, toward that end, must disallow government intervention in the economy beyond establishing certain minimal norms, like standard accounting procedures and contract law. The World Trade Organization's Multilateral Agreement on Investment, for example, will, if passed, void members' rights to regulate multinationals and promote domestic businesses.
For the large aspiring middle group of developing nations -- countries like Tunisia, Nigeria and Vietnam -- the advantage of accepting the doctrine and rules of a level playing field is access to world markets. The disadvantage is a loss of the freedom to subsidize company formation and the necessary learning process. That freedom has been critical to most economic modernizations that have had any lasting success. A level playing field may thus entail a false equality.
As the World Economic Forum's members ponder the problem of leadership, they have the opportunity to stimulate debate on whether the one-size-fits-all principle is too rigid to allow newcomers to enter the world trading system and prosper in it. If the forum succeeds in bringing flexibility to the system -- by recognizing the benefits of different government policies for countries at different development levels -- the result may be a more inclusive globalism, one less likely to be passing through "fragile times."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Design Machine) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); AGRICULTURE (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EMBRAER SA (81%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

TICKER: ERJ (NYSE) (81%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (81%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) TAIWAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



942 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Globalism and the liberal model: Playing the invisible hand that's dealt us.

BYLINE:  By Virginia Postrel; Virginia Postrel is the author of "The Future and Its Enemies" and is writing a book on the increasing importance of aesthetics in the economy and society. E-mail: vpostrel@dynamist.com.

 BODY:
AS business and political celebrities gather this week for the World Economic Forum, their mood is somber compared with the triumphalism of the 1990's. Not only have the organizers moved the meetings from Davos, Switzerland, to post-Sept. 11 Manhattan, but these international movers and shakers can expect to be confronted by protesters determined to stop global economic integration. The confidence of "Davos man" in the irresistible march of globalization -- and his belief in his own righteousness and cultural cool -- has been shaken.
 This somber turn is no surprise to Brink Lindsey, author of the new book "Against the Dead Hand: The Uncertain Struggle for Global Capitalism" (Wiley). He wrote the book to counter what he calls "equal doses of hype on both sides of the globalization debate." 
 Mr. Lindsey, who practiced international trade law before founding the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, also wanted to "try to get some handle on why the process of globalization has now been shown to be so infernally messy."
He argues that the recent expansion of the "global division of labor" is not the inevitable product of technological change or a result of an ideological embrace of free markets. Rather, he said in an interview, it is a "blind pragmatist lurch" away from the worldview and policies that ended the last great era of globalization nearly a century ago.
In 1913, he writes, "merchandise trade as a percentage of gross output totaled an estimated 11.9 percent for the industrialized countries," a level unmatched until the 1970's. Capital flowed across borders, while transportation costs plummeted. Newly developing nations entered the world marketplace.
That trend toward economic integration was halted, Mr. Lindsey argues, when world leaders -- the Davos set of a century ago -- began to misapply the lessons of big business. If large commercial enterprises could advance by planning and control, they reasoned, national economies could be run the same way, with more efficient and humane results than the "chaos" and competition of the marketplace.
Mr. Lindsey hastens to add that this "industrial counterrevolution" took many forms, from the politically benign to the totalitarian. "Just as parents may have children who are very different from one another, in both their practical achievements and their moral character, so did the embrace of centralization result in a diverse multiplicity of offspring," he writes.
The result was a turn from economic openness toward closed national markets, the better to enable political planning and control. Today's globalization is occurring, Mr. Lindsey argues, because political leaders no longer believe that state-directed economic decision making is the path to prosperity.
Contrary to both globalization triumphalists and globalization critics, he sees the process as a result of bottom-up change at the national level. Neither international institutions like the World Bank nor international investors exercise as much influence on policy as they are often credited with.
"A generation ago the prospect of losing foreign investment would not have troubled any self-respecting third world leader," he noted. "They were in the process of nationalizing all the foreign investment in their countries and booting the so-called neocolonialists out."
A result of this change in perceptions is, he writes, not a universal triumph of markets but a struggle: Adam Smith's invisible hand against what he calls the "dead hand" of central planning. Old institutions and habits remain, producing contradictions and turmoil.
Much of "Against the Dead Hand" examines what Mr. Lindsey calls the blowups of recent years, from the Asian debt crisis to Argentina's downward spiral.
The Asian model of state-directed industrial policy depended on insulating investment decisions from normal considerations of profit and loss. Hence the importance of banks, as opposed to public capital markets. Banks are less transparent and easier to control.
In South Korea, for instance, "banks were seen as a social tool to help the chaebol," the big conglomerates. Outside financiers didn't question the conglomerates' investment decisions.
Over time, those no-questions-asked investments destroyed wealth instead of creating it. And single-country financial systems intensified risks. A country's savers had all their assets in its banks' undiversified baskets.
Like other industries, Mr. Lindsey argues, finance should become part of the global division of labor. "It makes no more sense for every country to have its own banking industry than for every country to have its own aircraft industry or its own automobile industry," he said.
Contrary to the naive hopes of some free-market advocates, the book argues, removing government controls isn't enough. Good institutions, particularly a trustworthy judicial system, are essential.
In Argentina, for example, the government of Carlos Saul Menem liberalized the economy but did nothing to restore the independence of the judiciary.
Writing before the recent Argentine crisis, Mr. Lindsey quotes an Argentine lawyer who complained that "the legal system is absolutely vital for our region's economic development, but the politicians are blind to it." Deals collapse every day, the lawyer said, because investors aren't willing to take the risks of an insecure legal environment.
Mr. Lindsey also tells the story of an Australian consultant who was assassinated after he uncovered huge fraud in the Thai sugar business he had been assigned to restructure by a bankruptcy court. Of five suspects arrested, only one was convicted. The other trials have dragged on for years, amid charges of bribery. "The dead hand of crony capitalism still clings tenaciously to power," Mr. Lindsey writes.
Despite his cautionary tone, he believes that economic liberalism will eventually win out. Unlike their predecessors a century ago, today's critics offer only reactionary opposition, not a convincing vision of progress and prosperity.
"There is at present only one viable vision of economic development: the liberal model of markets and competition. It is neither widely loved nor widely understood, but it is all there is," Mr. Lindsey writes. "And so when existing institutions break down so badly that changes become unavoidable, leaders in search of a template for constructive action now turn to the liberal model by default. In this way the dead hand yields, bit by bit, to the invisible hand of the market."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers at government enterprises protested in Seoul, South Korea, yesterday. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (93%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); WRITERS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); LITERATURE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); PACKING & MOVING SERVICES (72%); TRENDS (71%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); CATO INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: POSTREL, VIRGINIA; LINDSEY, BRINK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (88%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); SWITZERLAND (88%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN); AGAINST THE DEAD HAND (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



943 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Rally After Optimistic News About the Economy

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday after the Federal Reserve said the economy was beginning to recover and a government report showed unexpected growth last quarter. Wal-Mart Stores and General Electric led the rally. 
 Shares of Tyco International rose yesterday, reversing a 19 percent plunge on Tuesday. The rally came after its chief executive and chief financial officers, in an effort to damp concerns over accounting practices, said that they would buy one million shares of Tyco. 
 "Everyone who has been hanging on this recession note should be starting to feel a bit optimistic," said William Dwyer, who helps oversee $8.5 billion as chief investment officer at M&T Asset Management in Buffalo.
The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 144.62 points, or 1.5 percent, to 9,762.86. The Nasdaq composite index advanced 20.45 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,913.44. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 12.93 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,113.57. 
The central bank left its benchmark interest rate target at 1.75 percent, a four-decade low. That was a sign that its 11 reductions last year are helping to revive the economy.
The Fed's decision not to cut rates again is "a signal they believe we've hit bottom economically," said E. Matthew Brown, who oversees $1 billion at Wilmington Trust.
What is more, a report from the Commerce Department showed the economy grew 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter, after contracting 1.3 percent in the July-to-September period, as consumer and government spending surged.
Shares of Wal-Mart rose $1.84, to $59.75, while General Electric climbed 42 cents, to $36.88. Tyco gained $1.20, to $34.85.
But until corporate profits grow, some investors will be skeptical that stocks will advance. AOL Time Warner fell 30 cents, to $26.40, after it reported a wider fourth-quarter loss. Expenses rose and advertising fell 14 percent at its America Online unit, magazines and television networks.
Fourth-quarter earnings have dropped 23.6 percent, based on the 63 percent of the S.& P. 500 companies that have released results, according to Thomson Financial/First Call. Analysts expect profits to decline 7.2 percent this quarter.
Some 2.02 billion shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange, making it the busiest day this year. Four stocks rose for every three that fell on the Big Board, while six rose for every five that slid on the Nasdaq. --------------------

Treasury Prices Fall
By Reuters
Treasury prices fell yesterday after the Federal Reserve held interest rates steady, as expected.
The upbeat news that the fourth-quarter gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent, much better than forecasts of a 1 percent decline, arrived before the Fed ended a two-day policy meeting. As expected, the Fed warned that risks to the economy were tilted toward further weakness.
In expectation of the change in policy, short-term yields -- which move in the opposite direction as prices -- have already risen sharply in recent months. Yields on two-year notes now stand near 3.08 percent, well above the current federal funds rate of 1.75 percent.
With the return of budget deficits, the Treasury said yesterday that it would conduct three bond buybacks in April. 
The Treasury also said it would sell $16 billion of 4 3/4-year notes -- doubling the size of a five-year issue originally sold in November -- and $13 billion of new 10-year notes, matching market expectations. The auction will be held next Wednesday.
The benchmark 10-year note fell 16/32 , to a price of 99 30/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction as price, rose to 5.01 percent from 4.94 percent on Tuesday.
The 30-year bond fell 21/32 , to a price of 99 5/32 . Its yield rose to 5.43 percent from 5.39 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: AOL INC (81%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (81%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); WMT (NYSE) (58%); TYC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (58%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



944 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Panel Approves Huge Rail Plan to Move Coal 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Federal regulators today approved the largest railroad construction project in modern history, a 900-mile $1.4 billion line to help move Wyoming coal to power plants in the East and Midwest.
 The Surface Transportation Board cited economic and transportation benefits in endorsing a proposal by the Dakota, Minnesota and Eastern Railroad Corporation. The board imposed nearly 150 requirements to address concerns over environmental damage and noise. 
 The plan calls for 280 miles of new track from coal beds in the Powder River Basin in northeastern Wyoming and through the Black Hills in South Dakota, as well as rebuilding 600 miles from southwestern South Dakota across southern Minnesota to the Mississippi River.
"The last time a project of this size was undertaken as a single rail-construction project in the United States, Abraham Lincoln was the president," said Kevin V. Schieffer, president of the railroad.
Significant hurdles remain before construction can begin. The railroad has to obtain building permits from the Army Corps of Engineers and the United States Forest Service. It hopes to complete the line by 2007.
Critics said they would continue to oppose the project, which would take the railroad through the Buffalo Gap National Grassland in South Dakota and the Thunder Basin National Grassland in Wyoming.
"We're fully prepared to file suit," said Nancy Darnell, a rancher in Newcastle, Wyo., who said the rumbling trains would spoil the tranquillity of her land.
The Surface Transportation Board, an arm of the Transportation Department, acknowledged that the project might cause "potentially significant" environmental problems. It said the economic benefits outweighed that possibility. But the board added conditions aimed at limiting the disruption for Indian tribes and other residents, as well as wildlife and natural areas, along the route.
The railroad estimates that demand for Powder River Basin coal will grow from 300 million tons in 1996 to more than 500 million tons by 2010. The company also says its project will produce 6,000 construction jobs over two years, 2,000 permanent jobs related to the railroad, more coal-mining jobs and other economic benefits.
Mr. Schieffer said that agriculture would also benefit from the new rail and that new manufacturers would emerge along the line.
"This is not a coal project," Mr. Schieffer said. "It is a railroad infrastructure project."
When the new line opens, the company envisions moving dozens of trains a day, each with 115 to 135 cars running at up to 45 miles an hour. Three trains a day now haul an average of 57 cars each at 17 miles an hour. 
It is the length, frequency and speed of the proposed schedule that drew complaints from cities like Pierre, S.D., and Rochester, Minn. The president of a neighborhood association in Rochester, Michael LaPlante, predicted that the line would be disastrous for residents.
"The fallout," Mr. LaPlante said, "will almost certainly contribute to the demise of a neighborhood." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); APPROVALS (90%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (90%); COAL MINING (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); COAL INDUSTRY (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); WILDLIFE (77%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); RIVERS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); HISTORY (73%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); ARMIES (55%); SUITS & CLAIMS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DAKOTA MINNESOTA & EASTERN RAILROAD CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); FOREST SERVICE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (72%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, MN, USA (90%); PIERRE, SD, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (95%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (90%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



945 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Complex Deal Is First Step To Create New National Park 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
The Nature Conservancy announced the signing today of a $31 million purchase agreement for a 151-square-mile ranch in Colorado, a complex deal that is the first step toward creating a new national park with the adjacent Great Sand Dunes National Monument and Preserve, in the San Luis Valley.
 The ranch and the national monument are to become the nation's 58th national park in 2005 and will include 70 species of plants and animals that are found nowhere else in the world. The area includes 750-foot-high sand dunes, the tallest in North America, and two peaks, Kit Carson Peak and Challenger Point, that are higher than 14,000 feet. All will become accessible to the public when the deal is completed. 
 The purchase agreement still hinges on the resolution of legal action between the current owner of the property, the Cabeza de Vaca Land and Cattle Company, LLC, and two of its minor investors over water and a right of way claim. Yale University, which is not involved in the legal action, was revealed last week to be a principal investor in the company, prompting Yale's president, Richard C. Levin, to promise that the university would contribute its part of the profits of the sale to the Nature Conservancy.
The ranch, called Baca Ranch, dates from an 1824 Mexican land grant and spreads over 97,000 acres. The conservancy plans to buy it and then sell it to the federal government for inclusion in the national park. Congress has already appropriated $10 million toward the purchase price and is expected to appropriate $17 million more. The deal was proposed in the Clinton administration by Colorado lawmakers, and the Bush administration supports it.
"This is public-private partnership at its best," Gale Norton, the secretary of the interior, said in a statement. "This is a great example of a local grassroots involvement to develop a national park with solid community support."
The amount that Yale is to donate to the sale has yet to be determined, but university officials have said it would be about $4 million. Yale owned half of Vaca Partners, which joined the Cabeza de Vaca company to buy the ranch in 1995 for $15 million. The partnership then tried to sell the water rights, which are potentially highly lucrative, but local residents opposed the sale.
Yale's involvement was revealed last week by a group of union members at Yale who have been at odds with the university and saw its involvement with the water-rights speculation as ethically questionable because the residents opposed such a transaction.
The aquifer under the Baca Ranch helps keep the dunes in place and is vital to the local farm and ranch economies. The Nature Conservancy is acquiring the rights to it.
"The protection of the Baca Ranch essentially completes the conservation of what biologists call a functional area, meaning that all the pieces necessary to sustain the plants and animals native to this area will be protected," said Michael Horak, a spokesman for the conservancy.
The last new national park added to the system was Black Canyon of the Gunnison, also in Colorado, in 1999. The 57 national parks have 385 sub-units, which include presidential birthplaces and Civil War battlefields.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Nature Conservancy announced yesterday that it had signed a purchase agreement for the 151-square-mile Baca Ranch in Colorado. The acquisition is expected to result in a new national park, the nation's 58th. (J. D. Marston/The Nature Conservancy) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (91%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); WATER RIGHTS (84%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (78%); MAMMALS (76%); ETHICS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (72%); BIOLOGY (71%); ANIMALS (71%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATURE CONSERVANCY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



946 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: FORUM IN NEW YORK: THE PLAYERS; 
Appearing in the Role of Evil: The Other Side

BYLINE:  By DAN BARRY 

 BODY:
The first act of a major theatrical production opens today in the streets of New York, as thousands gather inside the Waldorf-Astoria for an exclusive event called the World Economic Forum, and thousands more muster outside for protest. Advanced billing for the spectacle, which has a limited engagement of five days, promises stimulating and perhaps even violent confrontation between good and evil.
 What distinguishes this drama is that no one will accept the role of evil antagonist; all of the actors claim to represent goodness, light and the best that the city has to offer. These players also know that they are performing on a world stage with a New York backdrop, where any aggressive act caught on videotape -- smashing a Starbucks window, jostling a doe-eyed protester -- will color their reputation for years to come. 
 Then there is the delicate matter of respecting a weary and impatient audience: city residents for whom Sept. 11 seems like yesterday, for whom the trauma of the World Trade Center disaster is fresh. Every action and reaction, it seems, will be interpreted through the prism of ground zero -- every raised placard, every raised truncheon, every raised cocktail. 
And so the many sides have gone to great lengths to explain why they are doing what they are doing, and why the motivations of others are not in the best interests of either the city or humankind. The forum's organizers say they are bringing together the world's best minds to solve the world's worst problems. The activists say they are challenging the forum's motives with peaceful protests -- even puppets. The police say they are summoning thousands of officers to ensure the safety and civil rights of all involved.
If it were all that simple, of course, then the city would be welcoming a love-in, not bracing for a Super Bowl weekend of conflict.
The seeds for having the conference in New York this weekend were planted on Sept. 11, organizers say, when the forum's founder, a Swiss business professor named Klaus Schwab, happened to be in the city. Stunned, Mr. Schwab returned to Switzerland and proposed moving the annual event from its traditional location, the remote skiing village of Davos, to Manhattan as a demonstration of solidarity for a wounded city. (Critics of the conference say that the forum had actually worn out its welcome in Davos.)
Representatives of the forum talked of a move with Rudolph W. Giuliani, then in his final weeks as mayor. According to Charles D. McLean, the conference's spokesman, the mayor said: "Great, welcome to New York."
As a result of that agreement, some 3,000 heads of state, political theorists, cultural figures and -- in particular -- corporate leaders will begin arriving this morning for five days of discussions on such sober topics as global warming, worldwide recession and the threat of terrorism. Mr. McLean said that the recommendations that emerge from the conference are worked on year-round by the forum's members and employees, and that its proposals had influenced the decisions of the world.
He suggested that people who were not invited to the Waldorf this weekend should think of the event as "a global town hall of leaders from different sectors of society." He said that members and invited guests "come to our meetings because of a shared commitment to the forum's mission of improving the state of the world."
Among the many guests are the likes of Archbishop Desmond M. Tutu and Kofi Annan, the secretary general of the United Nations. But it mainly attracts the heads of international corporations who have paid about $25,000 for the chance to establish and burnish valuable business contacts amid all the somber theorizing. 
The forum also carries a certain egghead glitz: there are A-list gatherings at top restaurants; late-evening "nightcaps" with former President Bill Clinton and others; and tours of the city's sights, including, of course, ground zero. In one conference room at the Waldorf might be Secretary of State Colin Powell; down the hall, Peter Gabriel, the rock star who is listed in the roster of participants as "Peter B. Gabriel."
Finally, the World Economic Forum brings protesters by the thousands: anarchists, socialists, environmentalists, labor unions. They see the forum as a sinister force, an opportunity for a small group of elite capitalists to carve up the world as though it were a pizza with everything on it. Many have protested peacefully at similar economic conferences in the past, often using acts of civil disobedience. But a few have had violent confrontations with the police, most notably in Seattle in 1999 and Genoa in 2001. 
In recent weeks, the police and the demonstrators have monitored each other's preparations as best as they can, and have engaged in the kind of psyche-out posturing normally seen at a weigh-in for a boxing match. 
The police recently invited the media to watch a training exercise at Shea Stadium, at which police cadets, posing as demonstrators, disrupted mock motorcades and caused general mock mayhem. Activists complain that the police sought to frighten away protesters with the widely disseminated photographs of officers in riot gear.
Some activists have been conducting training sessions of their own, in the techniques of nonviolent confrontation (although law enforcement officials say that mischievous diversionary tactics have also been taught). "One thing we've found," said David R. Graeber, a member of an anarchist group called the Anti-Capitalist Convergence, "is that if everybody sits down, you don't look threatening, and it's hard for the cops to come in and start slugging everybody."
On Monday, police officials held a no-nonsense news conference at police headquarters. The overall message they imparted was zero tolerance; any infraction of the law, no matter how minor, will lead to incarceration.
In a way, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly played the "good cop" role. "I think people are certainly distressed, you might say, as a result of Sept. 11, and there may be very little tolerance," he said. "But we're here to make certain that these people who want to demonstrate do so peacefully. They have First Amendment rights; we are going to ensure that they are able to exercise those rights."
Then came Joseph J. Esposito, the chief of department, to fill the "bad cop" role. He said the Police Department was prepared "for that small percentage that are bent on destruction of property or other things of that nature."
On Tuesday, representatives from several protest groups held a long news conference at the Community Church of New York, in Midtown, to express similar resolve -- although with nowhere near the precision demonstrated by the police. One of the many speakers was so nervous that she had to pause in the midst of denouncing the people who would be meeting "behind the closed and heavily militarized doors of the Waldorf-Astoria."
They emphasized that they were interested in nonviolent demonstrations, and maintained that the violent outbreaks at previous economic conferences were blown out of proportion and mostly the fault of the police. They bristled at being asked, again, about vandalizing the property of large corporations. They said the tactic was used only rarely by a handful of people, and, as Mr. Graeber of the Anti-Capitalist Convergence put it, "A lot of people may feel that this may not be the moment."
The moment, of course, is the first raw months after the terrorist attack of Sept. 11. But Eric Laursen, a member of Another World Is Possible, an umbrella organization, pointed out that he and many others who planned to protest were New York residents who shared the city's grief. He said it was an insult to suggest that protests for which city permits had been issued were somehow unpatriotic.
Mr. Laursen said that a mother had called to ask if a rally on Saturday would be safe enough for her to take her 14-year-old son. "I told her it's not going to be one where we're running that kind of risk," he said. He said that the activists who sometimes destroyed property as a means of protest "have assured us that they're not going to do anything to compromise our march and rally."
Meanwhile, police officers are hanging outside the Starbucks stores throughout Manhattan. Is it because of the rich coffee -- or because they know something? Call it dramatic tension.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Jan. 31 about barricades for the World Economic Forum in Manhattan gave an outdated name for the hotel where a porter was forced to greet guests on a street corner. It is the New York Palace, formerly the Helmsley Palace.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An extra level of police security around the Waldorf-Astoria was evident to pedestrians in the area yesterday. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times); The police say they will protect First Amendment rights and make certain those who protest do so peacefully. (Richard Perry/The New York Times); A porter for the Helmsley Palace moved to Park Avenue to greet guests because 51st Street was barricaded. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); RIOTS (78%); THEATER (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (63%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (61%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%) WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); RICK PERRY (50%) BARRY, DAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); SWITZERLAND (90%) NEW YORK CITY; 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



947 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS; 
Times Co. Reports 46% Drop In Fourth-Quarter Net Income

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The New York Times Company said yesterday that its fourth-quarter net income fell 46 percent as a weak advertising market more than offset cost cuts and gains in circulation income.
 The Times Company, which owns publications including The Times and The Boston Globe, posted net income of $74.1 million, or 48 cents a share, down from $137.8 million, or 83 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier, when the sale of three regional newspapers bolstered income. Revenue fell to $780.6 million from $927.1 million. 
 Excluding income from the sale of the papers, as well as several other unusual items, including the costs of reducing the work force, the company said profit in the quarter came to $76.9 million, down 31.5 percent from $112.1 million a year earlier. Calculated per share, the figure fell to 50 cents from 68 cents. 
The quarter proved to be the worst of the year for advertising, in terms of year-over-year change, and December -- always the strongest month of a year -- had the biggest percentage drop of any month. In December, ad revenue fell 19.8 percent for all the company's newspapers, with ad revenue off 23.5 percent at The Times; 20.6 percent at the New England newspaper group, which includes The Globe and The Worcester Telegram & Gazette in Massachusetts; and 5.4 percent at its regional newspaper group.
But executives of the Times Company said that advertising trends were improving in January for most parts of the company. At The Times, ad revenue in January was down "in the low to midteens" on a percentage basis from the year before, said Russell T. Lewis, the president and chief executive of the Times Company. For the regional papers, the decline was in the low single digits. 
At The Globe, the decline was larger, in the mid-20's on a percentage basis, largely because of the publication of a semiannual special recruitment section called Big Help. That section carried 60 pages this year, down from 132 a year earlier.
The company did not release estimates for first-quarter profit, but executives said they expected 2002 to be a better year. "We believe there's light at the end of the tunnel, and it's not another train coming at us," Leonard P. Forman, the chief financial officer, said in a conference call with analysts. "We believe there's a second-half recovery coming."
Mr. Lewis said the company expected earnings per share, excluding special items, to rise in the "mid-single-digit to low-double-digit range" in 2002, assuming there is an economic recovery. Without a recovery, he said, "we believe modest earnings-per-share growth is still possible."
For all of 2001, the company reported a profit of $1.59 a share, excluding special items, down from $2.10 in 2000.
While advertising revenue fell in the fourth quarter, circulation revenue rose 9.1 percent, after adjusting for divested newspapers and the fact that the 2000 quarter had an extra week in it. The rise reflected rising circulation and higher prices. The company said it expected circulation revenue to increase 4 percent to 6 percent in 2002, aided by an increase in the price of home delivery for The Times, which will take effect next week and is expected to improve annual profit by at least $24 million.
The company's broadcast group said revenue fell 19.3 percent, to $38.1 million, in the quarter, while operating profit fell 38.4 percent, to $10.8 million. In 2000, the company's television stations had benefited from political advertising.
At New York Times Digital, the company's Internet operations, revenue fell 4.9 percent. But thanks to cost reductions, the digital operations reported a quarterly operating profit of $1.4 million, in contrast to a $12 million loss a year earlier. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); TRENDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS; NEWSPAPERS; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (95%); WORCESTER TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES; NEW YORK TIMES DIGITAL 

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LEWIS, RUSSELL T; FORMAN, LEONARD P; NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



948 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal News For Nassau: From Bad To Worse 

BYLINE:  By BRUCE LAMBERT 

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Just how bad is Nassau County's budget crisis? Take the previous deficit calculation and double it, the county executive said today. Fixing the problem will require steps he called "drastic" and "painful."
 County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi said that unless corrective action was taken, the projected deficit would reach a staggering $428 million in 2005. That is more than twice the previous estimate of $208 million, made a year ago, and nearly one-fifth of the current $2.2 billion budget. 
 It is also a shortfall on the same scale as the one Mr. Suozzi's fellow Democrats are projecting three or four years from now in New Jersey, which analysts in Washington and on Wall Street say faces the worst deficit of any state.
But while the fiscal problems of New Jersey and other states have been brought on largely by the recession and the Sept. 11 terror attacks, most of Nassau's quandary stems from its own longstanding mismanagement.
For years, the chronically gaping hole in Nassau's budget has been scrutinized and debated by auditors, bond raters and politicians. It prompted the state to impose a fiscal oversight board in 2000, and led to the Republicans' loss of control of the county government in November's elections, for the first time since World War I. On Tuesday, Nassau was rated dead last for fiscal management in a study of the nation's 40 largest counties by the Maxwell School of Public Policy at Syracuse University.
Today, Mr. Suozzi dropped a new piece of unwelcome news: a ballooning deficit.
"It's worse than we thought," he said at a news conference here. "We inherited the problem, and it's our job to solve the problem."
To close the gap, his administration is working on a four-year financial plan to submit to the state monitoring agency, the Nassau County Interim Finance Authority, known here as NIFA. The deadline is April 1, and if the authority finds the plan unacceptable, it can take control of Nassau's finances.
Balancing the budget is likely to require a combination of higher taxes and fees, service cuts and staff reductions. Nothing has been decided, Mr. Suozzi said, though he ruled out relying solely on a tax increase.
"Absolutely everything is on the table," Mr. Suozzi said. "People don't want their taxes raised. People don't want their services reduced. Something's got to give." 
The most immediate problem is to adjust this year's budget of about $2.2 billion, which Mr. Suozzi said threatens to veer into the red by as much as $30 million by the end of the fiscal year, in December. A deficit of that size would activate a law that forces a state fiscal takeover of the county in the event of an imbalance of at least 1 percent. Mr. Suozzi said that to prevent such a deficit, he would announce a series of actions next week.
Although he did not mention his predecessor by name, he blamed the administration of Thomas S. Gulotta, a Republican, for creating the deficit by bad budgeting. 
For example, the $22 million public works budget, prepared by Mr. Gulotta, is short by $2.8 million because the Department of Public Works has 544 workers -- 75 more than budgeted, Mr. Suozzi said. 
Calculations of inspection fees for weight scales and gasoline pumps were made using numbers for scales and pumps far beyond the numbers that actually exist in the county. "It is impossible to achieve," said Roger Bogsted, commissioner of the Office of Consumer Affairs, which conducts the inspections.
And at the Department of Recreation and Parks, cuts were made so arbitrarily that its equipment budget was listed at minus $117,050.
Mr. Suozzi denied that he was exaggerating the deficit to make himself look better for tackling it. "There's no political advantage in that," he said.
His announcement drew positive reactions. "We haven't seen the numbers yet, but we're pleased that he is being conservative in his numbers rather than unrealistically optimistic," said Richard M. Kessel, a member of the state oversight board.
The county's new comptroller, Howard S. Weitzman, a Democrat, said he was not surprised by the new deficit projections. "It could definitely be off that much," he said.
The County Legislature's Democratic majority leader, Judith A. Jacobs, said, "Our finance people always thought the figures were wrong." 
And Ed Ward, a spokesman for the Republican minority leader, Peter Schmitt, added, "Hopefully the county executive will give the Legislature and NIFA a plan that is going to meet the problems." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (94%); BUDGETS (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BONDS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); TAX INCREASES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); TERRORISM (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); TAX LAW (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%); WORLD WAR I (50%) BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: SUOZZI, THOMAS R (COUNTY EXEC); LAMBERT, BRUCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NASSAU COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



949 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: The Statement By the Fed 

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's monetary policy panel, decided to leave interest rates unchanged: 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep its target for the federal funds rate unchanged at 1 3/4 percent. 
 Signs that weakness in demand is abating and economic activity is beginning to firm have become more prevalent. With the forces restraining the economy starting to diminish, and with the long-term prospects for productivity growth remaining favorable and monetary policy accommodative, the outlook for economic recovery has become more promising. 
The degree of any strength in business capital and household spending, however, is still uncertain. Hence, the committee continues to believe that, against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



950 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: In Rebirth of 'Silk City,' a Snag; 
Mayor's Indictment Tries the Patience of Paterson

BYLINE:  By RICHARD LEZIN JONES 

DATELINE: PATERSON, N.J., Jan. 30 

 BODY:
This much can be said of this bleak but battling community, hard by the Passaic River, that was forged by the Industrial Age, ruined by its demise and is still reeling from a century of labor strife, racial tensions, high crime rates and joblessness: at least there was no plague of locusts.
 It might seem, however, that long-suffering Paterson has been visited by just about every other adversity. The state's third-largest city ushered in the last century with a devastating fire in 1902 that laid waste to more than a quarter of the buildings in the city. Less than four weeks later, disaster struck again when a flood washed out virtually everything else. The next year, there was a tornado in July and then another flood in October. And those were just the natural calamities -- there would be decades more of social and economic calamities to come. 
 "There is a sadness here because there is so much potential and it just goes unrealized," said Flavia Alaya, a cultural historian at Ramapo College and a Paterson resident for more than 30 years. "And the longer its potential goes unrealized, the sadder it gets. You have these almost Biblical events. You stop waiting for good things to happen." 
And so it goes in Paterson, the Job of New Jersey cities, which is entering another hundred years of waiting for good things to happen.
The city's first major crisis of the new century might seem to pale next to those of the one just past. Last week, Mayor Martin G. Barnes was indicted by a federal grand jury and charged with accepting cash, vacations, home renovations and paid "female companionship" in exchange for granting city contracts.
On Monday, Mr. Barnes pleaded not guilty to the charges, which were outlined in a 40-count indictment prepared by the United States attorney's office in Newark. The product of a two-year investigation of a local contractor, the indictment says that Mr. Barnes accepted thousands of dollars' worth of trips and gifts, filed false tax returns and defrauded the Department of Housing and Urban Development of $29,000.
Mr. Barnes, 53, was released on $100,000 bail pending a hearing next month into the admissibility of tape recordings that prosecutors may use as evidence in the case. If convicted, the mayor could face up to 20 years in prison.
The allegations against Mr. Barnes have been the talk of this slice of north-central New Jersey, and they have also cast renewed attention on this largely anonymous town of 149,000 on Passaic County's eastern edge.
Paterson has long been one of the state's most impoverished communities -- it is New Jersey's third poorest city as well as its third largest. And today's blackened, punched-out, abandoned warehouses are a far cry from its turn-of-the-century heyday as "the Silk City," when its 8.5 square miles were crammed with as many as 400 mills and factories.
Today, city officials say, there are only four.
Its history of high crime rates, brought into stark relief by the beating death of a homeless man by 13 high school students in June, fueled an exodus of businesses and residents from the city through the 1980's and 90's. The Silk City has become so unseemly that the neighboring, affluent community of West Paterson has held elections three times over the past dozen years to consider changing its name to avoid any affiliation with it. (The efforts, including one in November, have all failed.)
But during the past five years, the city has inched closer to the makings of a renaissance of sorts.
Unemployment here, over 12 percent in the late 1990's, has fallen by 5 percent since 1997. Property values are up as much as 40 percent in parts of the city. Paterson's police force has returned to staffing levels not seen for nearly three decades. And, in what could be viewed as a different kind of civic cachet, Paterson has frequently been used as a location for the filming of the HBO series "The Sopranos."
But some fear that the indictment of Mr. Barnes may slow whatever tenuous momentum the city may have gained.
"With regard to the activities in the city, there's still a lot of buzz in the city itself," said Councilman William Kline, a frequent critic of the mayor's. "I hope that developers won't be discouraged by the mayor's problems, but there is great promise in Paterson, and we have a vision. I'd hate to see those visions and those hopes and dreams ruined because of this."
Bob Grant, the mayor's spokesman, said that any momentum in the city would not be slowed by Mr. Barnes's indictment.
"Fiscally the city is on a sound footing for the first time in 25, 30 years," Mr. Grant said. "As for the mayor's problems, we think he will eventually be vindicated."
As for the resurgence of Paterson, many here are hopeful but realistic. "It's a city looking for itself; we're kind of meandering along," said Giacomo De Stefano, a native of the city and director of the Paterson Museum. "Sometimes, I say to myself, 'Man, what happened to Paterson?' We had it and then we lost it."
Ms. Alaya, the Ramapo professor, said: "What happened to the Silk City is that the Silk City went out with the silk. Things changed when synthetics came along. Silk had lost its aura."
And so, too, in some ways had the Silk City.
Founded in 1791 on the banks of the Great Falls of the Passaic, Paterson was one of the nation's first planned industrial cities. Named for then-Gov. William Paterson, the city's first century saw the emergence of textile mills and factories, the arrival of immigrants looking for work and the rise of unions.
Then, at the turn of the century the calamities began: the fire in 1902, followed by a flood, a tornado and then another flood. And on a quick tour of this fading workers' town, with its abandoned warehouses and graffiti-strewn buildings, the ghosts of earlier days still linger.
The still-imposing factory buildings are humbled somewhat by their gap-toothed broken windows. Other buildings, their windows boarded up, seem to boast about their once-proud pasts with painted letters on their facades -- letters that fade a bit more each year. Paterson Silk Machinery Exchange, whispers one along Spruce Street.
The downtown is still bright and active, and the signs that the city is breaking away from its urban torpor can be seen in the renovated factories of the historic district, which have found a new life housing retail shops and small offices. The faces on the street reflect the change from a predominantly Irish and Italian community to one that is equal parts black, Hispanic and white.
There are also reminders of some of this city's native sons, including the poet Allen Ginsberg, the baseball Hall of Famer Larry Doby, and the comedian Lou Costello, who is commemorated with a statue in a small park not far from downtown.
The other day a disheveled man slept on a bench at one end of the park, and a man wearing a hooded jacket sat quietly rocking on another, a half dozen over-stuffed trash bags piled at his feet. Surveying the entire scene was the smiling, sculptured visage of the late Mr. Costello, his trademark derby splattered with a pale green patina of bird droppings.
Not far from the Costello memorial, James Barone sat on the steps of the Roma Soccer Club along Cianci Street.
"Once upon a time, this town was beautiful," said Mr. Barone, 73, adjusting his bifocals. "Now it's a joke. We used to have 12 movie houses and we don't got none today, not one."
A veteran of the dye houses that once seemed as common here as fire hydrants, Mr. Barone looked across a broad field and with his finger outlined the businesses that once stood there. "We had dance halls and everything," he said. "There was an Italian bakery there," he said of a spot where a parking lot stood. "It was just wonderful." 
"It was strictly ethnic, Irish and Italian; we had some blacks, too," said Mr. Barone, whose parents came to Paterson from Sicily. "We all got along. It was rough sometimes, but we all got along."
He paused. "It was Silk City then," he said. "Now, I don't know."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The faces on Paterson's streets reflect a change from a predominantly Irish and Italian city to one that is equal parts black, Hispanic and white. (Emile Wamsteker for The New York Times)(pg. B5); Paterson's mayor, Martin G. Barnes, at center below, has pleaded not guilty to charges that he accepted gifts for contracts with the city, one of New Jersey's poorest. (Emile Wamsteker for The New York Times); (Kevin R. Wexler/Herald News via Associated Press)(pg. B1) Map of New Jersey shows the location of Paterson: Paterson has frequently been used as a location for "The Sopranos." (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (86%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (75%); CRIME RATES (72%); HISTORY (72%); BAIL (72%); BRIBERY (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); FIRES (70%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); GRAND JURY (69%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (69%); TAX FRAUD (69%); ETHICS (68%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (64%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; BRIBERY 

PERSON: JONES, RICHARD LEZIN; BARNES, MARTIN G (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (76%) PATERSON (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



951 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: RECONSTRUCTION; 
I.M.F. Backs Official Shift To U.S. Dollar By Afghans

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
With its economy and monetary system in tatters, Afghanistan is weighing a plan to adopt the United States dollar as legal tender until it introduces a new currency.
 The governor of the Afghan central bank, Abdul Qadeer Fitrat, said this week that the government would decide soon whether to use the dollar to replace the local currency, the afghani, which has been ruinously devalued as warlords and counterfeiters have printed their own notes. 
 Afghanistan's move toward the dollar has also won support from the International Monetary Fund, which sent eight officials here this week on the fund's first visit in a decade.
"I personally see more benefits than impediments," said Warren Coats, of the fund's monetary and exchange department. "There are several versions of the afghani currency in circulation. That in itself creates an important problem." 
Mr. Coats said the dollar could serve as an anchor for Afghanistan's money supply for two to three years, while the government wrestles with how to introduce a new currency.
Other countries with weak currencies, notably Ecuador, have adopted the dollar. But few countries have had as corrupted a money supply.
The afghani was introduced after Soviet forces left in 1989, and continued to be used under the Taliban. Warlords who refused to recognize the Taliban signaled their rebellions -- and financed them -- by printing their own afghanis. Today, a 10,000-afghani note printed by Abdul Rashid Dostum, a warlord in Kunduz Province, is worth half a 10,000-afghani note from the central bank.
Most afghani notes, even those put out by the government, are printed in Russia. Afghanistan lacks a secure printing facility.
The I.M.F. and the World Bank, which also sent a delegation here this week, will have to do more than recommend printers. Afghanistan's currency woes are only the most visible manifestation of an economy that has given up any pretense to international standards.
Under the Taliban, the government kept little or no economic statistics, and did not bother with accounting. The dearth of data has left Afghanistan's interim government, and the fund and World Bank, groping for even the most basic information. Mr. Fitrat, who ran central bank before the Taliban, said he could not calculate the inflation rate because the Taliban kept no statistics on consumer prices. 
This lack of information poses a short-term problem because the interim government must prepare a new budget by March 21, the start of the new fiscal year.
Happily for the government, the afghani is not linked to the dollar or any other currency. So the government does not need reserves to prop up the exchange rate.
Indeed, the currency's value is determined in the freest market of all: Kabul's throbbing bazaar, where money changers trade six-inch piles of Afghanis for crisp $100 bills.
The rate changes constantly -- tracked not by currency traders but by rumors that course through the ranks of the money changers. In the wake of the I.M.F. support for using dollars, the afghani plunged to 34,000 for a dollar, from 27,000. 
Mr. Fitrat said he hoped to "remove some of the zeros" when Afghanistan introduces a new national currency. But before he does that, he must confront some ticklish political issues, not the least whether the notes should bear the images of Afghan leaders. The current afghanis picture buildings and landscapes; orthodox Muslims avoid using images of people.
Still, disputes over design could pale next to battles over how the government collects tax revenues and distributes money. The same warlords who print their own money are not likely to turn over cash from local taxes and license fees.
Despite the depth of Afghanistan's problems, the fund and the World Bank found a few bright spots.
The country has a legitimate government, said Alastair J. McKechnie, the World Bank's director for Afghanistan. Unlike some recipients of foreign aid, it is not deeply in debt; Mr. McKechnie put the amount of overdue loans at under $50 million.
Paul Chabrier, director of the Middle Eastern department at the fund, said he had discovered in a visit to the customs office in Kabul that it had raised $12 million in the past seven months through duties on imports. That proved, he said, that the government has the ability to raise money.
"It's not necessarily a poor country," Mr. Chabrier said. "It just needs to be put back together."
So where is the $12 million now?
"We don't know where the money went," Mr. Chabrier conceded with a shrug. "The Taliban may have looted it." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); US DOLLAR (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONEY SUPPLY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INFLATION (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TRENDS (75%); TERRORISM (74%); COUNTERFEITING (71%); HIJACKING (70%); STATISTICS (66%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COUNTERFEIT MONEY AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



952 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Fed Holds Rates Steady; Economy Defies Attacks
The Federal Reserve brought its yearlong campaign of interest rate cuts to an apparent end, voting to hold rates steady and citing signs of an incipient recovery.
 Earlier, the government reported that the economy had defied widespread predictions of a sharp contraction after the terrorist attacks to show a small growth rate in the last three months of 2001. Page A1. 

Stocks rose after the Fed left rates unchanged. The Dow rose 1.5 percent, and the Nasdaq and the S.& P. gained more than 1 percent. C10.

G.A.O. and White House Showdown
The General Accounting Office said it would sue the White House to try to force Vice President Dick Cheney to release documents detailing contacts between corporate executives and the administration's energy task force. A1.

Brown Brothers Chief Is Named
Brown Brothers Harriman, the nation's oldest and largest private bank, has named Michael W. McConnell, left, managing partner, a position akin to chief executive. Mr. McConnell, 59, whose appointment is effective tomorrow, will succeed Anthony T. Enders. Mr. Enders, who turns 65 in the spring, will remain as a general partner. C10.

AT&T and AOL Report Losses
AT&T and AOL Time Warner are very different sorts of companies. Yet as both titans reported quarterly losses, it became clear that there are important similarities in the challenges they face and even in their responses to the obstacles. Market Place. C10.

Record Companies on the Defensive
On Jan. 16, the judge in the record companies copyright lawsuit against Napster said that she intended to grant a request by Napster to explore whether the record companies might have colluded to prevent Napster and other online music competitors from licensing music to sell on the Internet. C5.

Chrysler to Lift Sales Incentives
Chrysler reversed course and said that it would increase incentive offers because of a slump in January sales. C4.

Asbestos Claims Drag Down ABB
The Swiss-Swedish industrial group ABB rattled investors by saying it expected to post a loss for the 2001 fiscal year because of increased provisions for asbestos lawsuits in the United States. World Business, Section W.

Profit Up 7.6% at Philip Morris
Philip Morris named its chief financial officer, Louis C. Camilleri, to succeed Geoffrey C. Bible as chief executive and said that its fourth-quarter profit rose 7.6 percent, to $2.16 billion, or 99 cents a share, compared with $2.01 billion, or 90 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. The results met analysts' expectations. Its shares fell 22 cents, to $49.57. C10.

Carnival Simplifies Princess Bid
Carnival dropped almost all the strings attached to its offer for P&O Princess Cruises of Britain in hopes of garnering shareholder support before a scheduled vote on a rival plan to merge P&O Princess with Royal Caribbean Cruises. World Business, Section W.

Top Tyco Executives to Buy Stock
The chairman of Tyco International and its chief financial officer each plan to buy 500,000 shares of Tyco stock, which had fallen 35 percent this week. C4.

Growing Pains of Globalization
The march to globalization has been anything but smooth because old institutions and habits remain, producing contradictions and turmoil. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,762.86 up 144.62Nasdaq composite -- 1,913.44 up 20.4510-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.01% up 0.07The euro -- $0.8627 down 0.0024The dollar -- 132.74 yen down 0.68 Graph: "TODAY" shows personal income for July-November 2001.December figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.3% Graph shows Philip Morris share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (88%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (86%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); LITIGATION (74%); TERRORISM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); ASBESTOS (69%); RECORD INDUSTRY (69%); INTERNET AUDIO (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (66%); SALES & SELLING (63%); CRUISES (60%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (58%); COPYRIGHT (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NAPSTER INC (83%); AOL INC (82%); ABB LTD (81%); ROYAL CARIBBEAN CRUISES LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (82%); ABJA (FRA) (81%); ABJ (FRA) (81%); ABBN (SWX) (81%); ABB (STO) (81%); ABB (NYSE) (81%); ABB (NSE) (81%); RCL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (81%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (81%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (81%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (81%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (50%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); LOUIS CAMILLERI (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SWEDEN (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



953 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-17

Female Bomber May Signal New Palestinian Tactics
The Palestinian bomber who killed herself and an Israeli man in Jerusalem on Sunday was identified as Wafa Idris, 28, a volunteer medic whose action appeared to be a sign of growing desperation among Palestinians and the growing willingness of militants to deploy women who can slip past Israeli security. A1

An Elite Forum on the Economy
Some 2,500 participants were gathering in New York for the opening today of the World Economic Forum, an annual event that brings together corporate leaders as well as diplomats, academics and an array of people with often competing interests. A1

U.S-Russia Arms Talks
Moscow said that it wanted a binding agreement that both sides would make irreversible cuts in their nuclear arsenals, and that Washington would destroy excess warheads, not just store them, as it had proposed. A8

Australia Detainees' Protest
Hundreds of asylum seekers said they would suspend a 15-day hunger strike during negotiations over their detainment. But the government said it had not changed its policy, and protests at other centers continued. A3

Criticism of Zimbabwe Leader
A prominent member of President Robert Mugabe's political party publicly denounced as unconstitutional a proposed law that would sharply limit freedom of speech. A4

World Briefing A6

NATION CHALLENGED A12-14

Warfare Between Warlords; U.S. Planes Monitor Fighting
Heavy fighting between rival Afghan warlords erupted in Gardez, a city 80 miles south of Kabul. American warplanes monitored the action but did not appear to participate. At the United Nations, the interim Afghan leader, Hamid Karzai, appealed for the international force now policing Kabul to be increased and expanded to other areas of his country. A1

Afghanistan is considering adopting the American dollar as legal tender until it offers a new currency. A13

Explaining 'Axis of Evil'
Administration officials defended the president's decision to include Iran and North Korea with Iraq in what he called an "axis of evil." But they said Mr. Bush was not suggesting that military action against any of them was imminent. A1

Sept. 11 Links to Malaysia
A Qaeda operative arrested in Malaysia has provided new evidence that the Southeast Asian nation was a major staging area for the terror attacks in the United States, Bush administration officials said. A13

Scientists' Help Is Sought
The F.B.I. asked the world's largest group of microbiologists for help in tracking down whoever mailed the anthrax that killed five people. A13

Explosive on Passenger's Shoe
Airline service in San Francisco was disrupted for hours after screening detected an explosive residue on the shoes of a passenger who nonetheless melted into the crowd and apparently boarded a plane that took off. A14

NATIONAL A18-23

Job-Training Programs To Be Cut in Bush Budget
President Bush's budget will seek cuts in several job-training programs for laid-off workers and young adults, according to budget documents and federal officials. Administration officials questioned the effectiveness of some of the job programs, which were created by Congress with overwhelming bipartisan support four years ago. A20

Plan to Bury Waste Sans a Plan
The Energy Department wants permission to dispose of nuclear waste at Yucca Mountain, in Nevada, before it has finished designing the repository or how to seal the tunnels. A18

Heart Transplant for Inmate
A California state prison inmate has received a heart transplant that is likely to cost taxpayers there close to $1 million, an example of increasing prison costs prompted by federal court rulings holding that inmates cannot be denied medical care. A18

Land Bought for New Park
The Nature Conservancy announced a $31 million purchase agreement for a 151-square-mile ranch in Colorado, a complex deal intended to lead to the creation of a national park with the adjacent Great Sand Dunes National Monument and Preserve. A23

Student Dies in Dormitory Birth
A 19-year-old student at the University of Wisconsin at Eau Claire died after giving birth in a dormitory bathroom as students passed by, thinking she was only sick, officials said. The baby is in critical condition. A21

Reno Collapses During Speech
Former Attorney General Janet Reno collapsed while giving a speech at the University of Rochester. She was taken to a hospital but appeared to be doing fine, a spokesman said. A23

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Mayor Offers Overview Of Challenges Facing City
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, in his first address to the City Council on the state of the city, vowed to rebuild from the World Trade Center attack, warned it would be difficult to close the looming budget deficit and renewed calls to abolish the community and city school boards and place the schools under mayoral authority. A1

Before the Dust Had Cleared
Interviews with firefighters who witnessed the twin towers' collapse provide an account of how a dazed force that lost many of its leaders initially struggled to respond before regrouping to search for survivors. B1

F.B.I.'s New York Chief Leaving
The assistant director in charge of the F.B.I.'s New York office, Barry W. Mawn, told the 1,100 agents who work for him that he would retire March 1, after 30 years in the bureau. B2

Anger Over Killer's Release
Officials in Bergen County, N.J., said the state prison system had freed a dangerous criminal early without giving the required 30-day notice that would have let them challenge the release. The complaints were prompted by the arrest of Edwin Snelgrove, who served 11 years of a 20-year sentence for murdering a former girlfriend. He is accused of trying to kidnap a woman in Hartford, Conn. B1

Neediest Cases B2

ARTS E1-10

Musician Beaten by Police
The principal trumpet player in the Barcelona Symphony Orchestra, Rodney Mack, who is African-American, was beaten so badly by police officers in Barcelona two weeks ago that he will be unable to appear with the ensemble in its performance at Carnegie Hall tomorrow night. E1

CIRCUITS G1-8

OBITUARIES B6-7

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Gene Test for Colon Cancer
A new test for colon cancer, based on detecting a gene disrupted very early in the course of the disease, could prevent many thousands of deaths each year, researchers say. A22

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Optimistic Fed Halts Rate Cuts
The Fed ended its yearlong campaign of interest rate cuts, citing signs of an incipient recovery. The decision followed a report that the economy grew slightly at the end of 2001. A1

G.A.O. to Sue White House
The General Accounting Office, an arm of Congress, said it would sue the White House to force the release of files detailing contacts between corporate executives and the administration's energy task force. A1

Viacom Executives Admonished
Members of Viacom's board were said to have told Sumner M. Redstone, the chairman and chief executive, and Mel Karmazin, the chief operating officer, to end a feud. C1

Germany Balking at Cable Deal
German regulators are expected to warn Liberty Media that they will block its $5 billion deal to buy Deutsche Telekom's cable television systems without major changes to the business plan. C1

A Test of Labor's Strength
Federal officials will say tomorrow whether a majority of 19,000 Delta flight attendants voted to join the Association of Flight Attendants. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

SPORTS D1-7

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: The limits of power; chief executive mayor; cleaning up Massachusetts politics.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E9
Crossword E6
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); AIRLINES (69%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (67%); CURRENCIES (62%); BIOLOGY (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



954 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: BOXING; 
Tyson Investigated in Another Rape Complaint

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
The camps of Mike Tyson and Lennox Lewis said yesterday that they were looking to hold a heavyweight championship bout outside Nevada, even as the Las Vegas police were investigating a second rape complaint that was filed against Tyson this month.
 That complaint was brought by a woman who said Tyson raped her at his home in Las Vegas in November 2000, said Lt. Jeff Carlson, the commander of the sex crimes unit. The police recently concluded an investigation of accusations by a woman who said Tyson raped her at his home in September, and police officers plan to meet with Clark County prosecutors tomorrow to review the report. Carlson said the report showed there was probable cause to bring a criminal charge against Tyson. 
 Tyson is struggling through one of the lowest points in his career, as a result of the investigations and a ruling by the Nevada State Athletic Commission on Tuesday that denied Tyson a license to fight Lewis, who holds two heavyweight titles. 
The commission's 4-1 decision came a week after Tyson and Lewis got into a brawl at a news conference in Manhattan, where they had planned to announce their bout scheduled for April 6.
At a news conference yesterday in London, Lewis said he was optimistic that the bout would take place. "Mike Tyson is the last notch on Lennox Lewis's belt, the icing on my cake, and I'd love to sort it out," Lewis said. "It'd be disappointing if the fight doesn't go ahead."
Marina Capurro, a spokeswoman at the Showtime cable network, which has a contract with Tyson, said that Showtime had "been hearing from a lot of sites around the country and abroad." She said something might be worked out soon.
Denmark, South Africa, London and Detroit have been mentioned as possibilities, said Scott Miranda, a spokesman for Tyson. He said that Tyson was training and "getting back into his routine."
Tommy Hearns Entertainment, based in Detroit, faxed an application to the Michigan State Athletic Board of Control yesterday to hold a Tyson-Lewis bout. The board grants boxing licenses, and promoters who want to stage a bout must file a separate application for the event. Maura Campbell, a board spokeswoman, said a fax did not count as a formal application.
Hearns, a former world champion fighter, said in a telephone interview that "we would like to be part of the negotiations for that fight."
"We've had Mike here before," he said. "We don't expect to have any problems with his fight at all."
Hearns's lawyer, Michael Smith, said he had already placed calls to the Tyson and Lewis camps.
Campbell said that if Tyson wanted to fight in Michigan, the board would probably grant him a license unless he was suspended in another state, which is not the case. The Michigan board has the authority to look at violations that take place during a fight but is limited in what it can do before a bout, she said. Even criminal charges are usually not enough to reject a license application, Campbell said.
There is little chance that a city like Detroit can bring in the kind of gambling revenues that would have flooded into Las Vegas for a Tyson-Lewis bout. But the Detroit area, as well as nearby Canadian towns, does have several casinos, including a branch of the MGM Grand, whose Las Vegas location was willing to pay $14 million to stage the bout. If the fight were held in Detroit, it would probably be at Joe Louis Arena, Cobo Arena or a similar site.
In October 2000, Hearns promoted a bout between Tyson and Andrew Golota, in which Golota quit after the second round. Before the bout, the Michigan boxing commission was upset that Tyson made a mockery of some of its rules, including refusing to give a urine sample, Campbell said. The commission could do nothing before the fight, but it negotiated with Tyson's lawyers afterward to have Tyson give the commission a $200,000 "contribution" that was later given to charities, she said.
As for possibly holding the fight in New York, Raymond W. Kelly, the state's boxing commissioner and the city's police commissioner, said that "we would honor the decision of the Nevada athletic commission."
New Jersey has also been mentioned as a potential site. Larry Hazzard, the state's boxing commissioner, did not return calls seeking comment yesterday.
A fight outside the United States would not be "economically viable" for HBO or Showtime, said Bob Arum, a boxing promoter.
If a rape charge is brought against Tyson, then his passport could be held by a court.
Carlson, of the Las Vegas police, said the investigation into the second accusation would probably take at least a month and that Tyson or his lawyer would be questioned. The woman in that case filed a complaint in another state after the November 2000 incident but, Carlson said, a "lack of communication" prevented the Las Vegas police from learning about it until last month.
Miranda said Tyson was cooperating fully with the investigation.
Tyson was convicted in 1992 of rape and served more than three years in an Indiana prison. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (91%); SEX OFFENSES (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); BOXING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PROBABLE CAUSE (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%) BOXING; SEX CRIMES 

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD; TYSON, MIKE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEVADA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) LAS VEGAS (NEV)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



955 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Japan Premier Taking Heat Over Firing Of Minister 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Japan's reformist prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, whose power derives primarily from high approval ratings in opinion polls, faced a potential crisis today as criticism piled up over his firing of his popular foreign minister, Makiko Tanaka.
 Mr. Koizumi acknowledged the problem at a news conference today, insisting that he would still press on with his vaunted program of reform. "Yes," he said in answer to a question about Mrs. Tanaka, "my decision may affect the stability of my administration." 
 The prime minister has only a small organized faction of support in Parliament. Since taking power last year and winning a far higher popular standing than a series of bland predecessors, he has largely succeeded in winning passage of legislation by using his public support to intimidate opponents inside his governing Liberal Democratic Party. 
In a Mainichi newspaper poll published last weekend, the approval rating for his cabinet was 72 percent.
Conservatives oppose Mr. Koizumi's plans for deregulation and privatization, pushing instead for the tried -- and failed -- recipe of boosting government spending to revive the economy.
Many economists, deeply aware that Japan is the most indebted nation in the world and is enduring its fourth recession in a decade, argue instead that a strong prime minister is needed to push through laws and procedures to cut the country's backlog of bad loans.
On Feb. 17, President Bush is to come here on a two-day visit. He is expected to appeal for the return of the world's second-largest economy to growth.
Mr. Koizumi may find that his dismissal of Mrs. Tanaka makes it harder to rally support, since the move was widely seen by reformers as a sop to conservatives in his party.
Yoichi Masuzoe, a Liberal Democratic Party senator sympathetic to Mr. Koizumi's pro-market economic approach, said: "Today I got dozens of telephone calls from the housewives, the ladies, saying, 'You have to defend Mrs. Tanaka, and Koizumi's decision is a mistake.' In terms of popular support, it really harms the Prime Minister for the moment. Maybe his support rate will be decreased by 10 percent."
The firing took place on Tuesday night just before midnight and immediately drew widespread attention. The Japan Broadcasting Corporation said its viewer ratings had soared to three times the normal level for the midnight period.
"Hard-core supporters of Tanaka may leave, and that will actually decrease Koizumi's popularity," Ikuo Kabashima, a political science professor at Tokyo University, warned in an interview today.
Analysts say the prime minister risked his credibility by using an apparently trivial pretext for dismissing the foreign minister: a dispute over an attempt to bar two nongovernmental groups from attending the Afghan aid conference in Tokyo last week.
To appear evenhanded in the war between a political minister and the career civil servants, Mr. Koizumi also fired the Foreign Ministry's ranking bureaucrat, Vice Minister Yoshiji Nogami.
Taking some tension out of the political crisis, Ms. Tanaka, a member of Parliament, said today that she would continue to support the prime minister "from the shadows."
Another way to offset the departure of Ms. Tanaka, the telegenic daughter of a former prime minister, would be to replace her with Sadako Ogata, who for 10 years, until December 2000, was the United Nations high commissioner for refugees.
Mrs. Ogata speaks fluent English and impressed the roughly 60 foreign ministers and heads of government at the Afghan aid conference.
Three Tokyo newspapers said Mrs. Ogata, 74, had been "tapped" for the job. Mrs. Ogata, who lives in New York much of the time, would have to give up a research position at the Ford Foundation, which she is using to write a book. This evening in Tokyo, her husband, Shijuro Ogata, was packing his bags for a 10-day trip to New York. He said he did not know if she had been offered the job, and she declined to comment to reporters in New York.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan in Parliament yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (73%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (67%) BROOKE, JAMES; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN); TANAKA, MAKIKO (MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



956 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: FORUM IN NEW YORK: THE OVERVIEW; 
Rich and Powerful Gathering At Elite Forum on Economy

BYLINE:  By SERGE SCHMEMANN 

 BODY:
In keeping with the times, the way to the site of the grand annual retreat of the world's movers and shakers was a maze of police barriers, concrete barricades, flashing lights and blue uniforms yesterday. But once inside the Waldorf-Astoria, it was more like the start of summer camp.
 Many who arrived on the eve of the opening today had been there before, and dropped their satchels and attache cases to clasp a hand and slap a shoulder. Many were men who had the air of money and power, but there were also third world diplomats, women business executives, clergy, academics and journalists. 
 The list of the 2,500 participants ran the gamut from celebrity C.E.O.'s like Bill Gates and Steve Forbes on through Russian oligarchs, kings and prime ministers, senators and even patriarchs.
This was the 31st World Economic Forum, an annual gathering to which an invitation is perceived -- by participants and critics at least -- as a membership card in a global economic and political elite.
It was also the first held outside the Swiss ski resort of Davos, which has provided the name by which the forum is popularly known. The organizers moved it after the Sept. 11 attacks, and after the Swiss government had balked at the rising cost of providing security. 
Unlike other conferences, this one does not expect to produce decisions or papers. This year, the theme is "Leadership in Fragile Times: a Vision for a Shared Future." But participants like Delaware Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, and the social scientist Samuel P. Huntington of Harvard are scheduled to discuss "the root cause of conflict," while Jeff Bezos of Amazon.com was listed on a panel on "connecting to consumers in uncertain times."
Leaders of 1,000 "foremost companies" from around the world pay about $25,000 each in annual dues and about $6,000 per participant to attend the annual meeting, and many come back.
"I've been coming here for 14 years, and even though it's expensive, it's a lot cheaper than trying to meet all these people any other way," said the Lebanese head of an international trading company who asked not to be identified.
Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International and another veteran of Davos conclaves, said the value was in the "cross-fertilization of ideas."
"It's the quality and level of the people, and the stimulating nature of the format," he said. "You get to discuss ideas you might not face in everyday business."
To offset the image of a global establishment, and to foment discussions, there are sizable contingents from other worlds -- 40 religious leaders, 200 experts from think tanks and various academic centers, 350 news media representatives and 40 union leaders.
Organizers estimate that a quarter of the 2,500 participants have come from developing countries.
Traditionally, Davos includes a large dollop of partying. Even in these fiscally tight times there are a dozen private affairs. The Coca-Cola Company hosts its annual soiree at the Four Seasons Restaurant. Other companies have booked landmarks like Le Cirque 2000, and Goldman Sachs & Company has reserved the Rainbow Room for a Super Bowl party on Sunday.
That has not prevented critics from painting the forum in the darkest colors. "The World Economic Forum will celebrate war in Afghanistan and the Middle East, attacks on civil liberties, and corporate tax cuts," proclaimed a group called A.N.S.W.E.R. (Act Now to Stop War and End Racism) in its call for demonstrations which will get under way in earnest with marches on Saturday.
"At the New York W.E.F. summit, the world's richest C.E.O.'s will collaborate with the world's most powerful politicians to set the global economic agenda," declared another group, Students for Global Justice.
Whether the protests reach the violence of the meeting last year in Davos remains to be seen. Some opposition groups acknowledge that a clash with "New York's finest" in the aftermath of Sept. 11 would not sit well with the public.
Klaus Schwab, the Swiss business professor who created and still rules the Geneva-based World Economic Forum, bridles at the image critics paint of the gatherings of greedy corporate chiefs discussing how to fatten their bottom lines.
"I think that is a very demagogic, simplified and polarizing way to describe people," he said in an interview. "You assume that all these people are the same. You make a caricature. If you look at the decision-makers who are here, there are certainly some who fit this description, but it is not a homogeneous group. Not every C.E.O. is just into making money, is greedy and so on."
Mr. Schwab said 40 percent of the participants are C.E.O.'s, and about 30 percent of the rest are "idealists" -- a category that evidently included environmentalists, religious leaders and the like.
"Maybe I'm too much of an idealist, but there are also fathers, they have a younger generation and they think in terms of the environment and so on" he said.
Among these was Robert Kinloch Massie of the Global Reporting Initiative, which seeks to develop guidelines for reporting on the economic, environmental and social performance for corporations.
"I'm a believer in getting people with diverse backgrounds into the same room," Mr. Massie said as he waited to register.
Over the years the forum has been the venue for important decisions. In 1994, Yasir Arafat of the Palestinian Authority -- a regular who is blocked from attending this year by Israeli tanks -- reached a historic agreement with the Israeli foreign minister, Shimon Peres.
Two years earlier, the South African president, F. W. de Klerk, met in Davos with Nelson Mandela -- their first joint appearance outside South Africa.
Veteran participants said that in general the participation of government officials has steadily grown through the history of the forum, changing its character from a business meeting to the broader discussion of current issues. 
But this year, the Bush White House is mostly staying away. Colin L. Powell, the secretary of state, and Paul O'Neill, the Treasury secretary, will be the highest ranking representatives. Unlike Bill Clinton, who came as president, President Bush does not go in for a lot of talk.
But at its core, the conference has been an attempt to focus the formal workshops and meetings on issues rather than business. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, for example, will debate trends with the likes of Zbigniew Brzezinski, Shimon Peres and George Soros.
Other discussions likely to stir at least curiosity are one on "understanding global anger," featuring the chairman of McDonald's, Jack Greenberg, or another on "the politics of apology," with Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu and Elie Wiesel.
Whatever the panels, most of the talk will center on the weakening economies of Europe and America and the war on terrorism. "This requires us, to borrow the title of another workshop in the program, to 'rethink safety and security in business and in government,' " as the introduction to the program noted. "In many ways, the crucial question is how we are going to address the new forms and dimensions of risk." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); RELIGION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); MEN (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); RIOTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); TERRORISM (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); WOMEN (70%); HIJACKING (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); TRENDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); AIRLINES (63%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (82%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%) WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (82%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (53%); JOE BIDEN (53%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (53%) SCHMEMANN, SERGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); LEBANON (79%); EUROPE (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY; DAVOS (SWITZERLAND); EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



957 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
MANPOWER SAYS IT WILL MISS FIRST-QUARTER ESTIMATES

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Manpower, a provider of temporary labor, will miss analysts' forecasts for its first-quarter earnings as the weakened economy has slowed demand. Profit will be 6 cents to 10 cents a share on revenue that will lag year-earlier levels, the chief executive, Jeffrey A. Joerres, said during a conference call. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call had expected the company to earn 15 cents a share. The company, based in Milwaukee, made the forecast while reporting fourth-quarter results. Manpower earned $26 million, or 34 cents a share, down from $53.5 million, or 70 cents, a year earlier. Sales declined 9.5 percent to $2.82 billion from $3.12 billion. 



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); SALES FIGURES (88%); CONFERENCE CALLS (84%); EXECUTIVES (55%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: MANPOWERGROUP (91%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%)

ORGANIZATION: MANPOWER INC 

TICKER: MAN (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (91%) SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES; 

PERSON: JEFFREY A JOERRES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



958 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler to Increase Vehicle Incentive Offers 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
The Chrysler Group reversed course today and said that it would increase incentive offers to its customers because of a slump in January sales.
 The automaker, a unit of DaimlerChrysler, cut back its offers at the end of last year. After General Motors started a post-Sept. 11 interest-free financing blitz, the Big Three offered over $2,000 a vehicle in incentives. 
 Chrysler went along with the deals, but its top executives said repeatedly that the deals were a bad idea for the domestic automakers and were causing losses to widen. Foreign automakers like Toyota Motor and Honda Motor have largely avoided such deals and maintained strong sales, and the weakness of the yen has provided a further cost advantage. For G.M., the only one of the Big Three to make a profit last year, the deals have been an opportunity to buy back lost market share.
Chrysler, the No. 3 automaker in the nation, said that continued heavy incentive spending by G.M. and Ford Motor made its play for thrift untenable.
"We were having real trouble getting store traffic because our competitors were out there advertising these huge deals," said James Schroer, Chrysler's executive vice president for global sales and marketing.
Mr. Schroer added that the Big Three's heavy reliance on incentive spending was a "zero-sum game" that the company hoped would end. Ford and Chrysler each hope, at best, to break even this year, though many analysts are expecting another year of red ink for both companies.
Already, industry sales appear to have slowed in January from the heady pace at the end of last year as consumer enthusiasm for incentives has worn down. Over all, industry sales in January are at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 16.2 million vehicles, according to a recent projection by J. D. Power & Associates, compared with a rate of 18.2 million in the fourth quarter and 16.9 million in January 2001.
"It's well off of the 18.2 million of the fourth quarter and consistent with most people's expectations that the market has slowed down this year," said Robert Schnorbus, chief economist at J. D. Power. 
That means competition will intensify for what is left. G.M. shifted from its interest-free financing plan to rebates of $2,002 on most of its vehicles to market its deals around a new pitch. Ford also shifted to generous rebates of up to $2,500.
Chrysler, in the meantime, moved to a less-potent plan that included scattered rebates varying by state and model, as well as a seven-year, 100,000-mile power train warranty.
Mr. Schroer said the company would be increasing its incentive spending again, starting today, because it had lost ground in January. The new plans will include rebates of $2,500 for the Dodge Durango, for several minivans and for the Jeep Grand Cherokee, as well as continuing the power train warranty. Most other vehicles will have $1,500 rebates along with the warranties.
"It's a step up from where we were in January but still a step below where G.M. and Ford are," Mr. Schroer said. "We have to dial up the burner again to be able to compete with the accelerated deals from G.M. and Ford."




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SALES REBATES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); JAPANESE YEN (54%) AUTOMOBILES; SALES; REBATES 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (90%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER GROUP 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); TYT (LSE) (90%); TM (NYSE) (90%); 7203 (TSE) (90%); HNDA (LSE) (84%); HMC (NYSE) (84%); 7267 (TSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY; SCHROER, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



959 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: As Bush's Stature Rises . . . 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It will take a lot more than Dick Gephardt's tepid address on Tuesday night to interfere with the bond that is developing between President Bush and the American people.
 Mr. Bush was supposed to have been a man of generally low wattage who needed a map to navigate a simple declarative sentence. But he got everybody's attention with a masterful speech soon after the Sept. 11 attacks, and since then he's drawn high marks and admiration for his handling of the war on terror. 
 "Saturday Night Live" continues to mock him mercilessly, but Mr. Bush's ratings in public opinion polls are extraordinary. And those sky-high approval ratings seem to reflect a genuine affection for the man, warm feelings that run much deeper than those shown his father in the immediate aftermath of the gulf war. 
The Democrats are faced with the simple fact that most Americans like their president, and are rooting for him.
Mr. Bush, in turn, has exhibited a sense of command and a comfort level with the presidency that was lacking before Sept. 11. You don't hear many jokes anymore about Dick Cheney being in charge.
The public's enthusiastic embrace of Mr. Bush, when combined with the sense of vulnerability most Americans still feel regarding terror, makes the president a much more formidable political foe than his father. You could feel the tremor of fear that surged through the national audience when Mr. Bush said, during his State of the Union address, "Thousands of dangerous killers, schooled in the methods of murder, often supported by outlaw regimes, are now spread throughout the world like ticking time bombs, set to go off without warning."
Even those Americans who don't particularly like George W. Bush -- and there are a fair number of them -- do not have the luxury of hoping he'll fail.
So this is the difficult environment in which Mr. Gephardt and others who oppose Mr. Bush on a range of important issues are forced to fight. For example, how do you generate concern over the fact that Mr. Bush apparently attended the Ronald Reagan school of economics? Critics complain that by expending enormous sums of money on the military at the same time that he is slashing taxes, Mr. Bush is speeding recklessly toward the long dark tunnel of budget deficits.
If the president is concerned about this he hasn't shown it. On Tuesday night he coolly urged Congress to "make these tax cuts permanent."
He addressed the matter of the struggling economy by saying, "When America works, America prospers. So my economic security plan can be summed up in one word: jobs."
The only problem was that he offered no job-creation plan, no blueprint on how to proceed. Worse, even as unemployment is going up, the administration's support for job training programs is going down. It would not be prudent to bet a lot of money on big-time job creation by the Bush administration.
But it would be even less prudent at the moment to attack the president on this, or any, issue. Americans are deployed in combat arenas overseas, and at home there remains the threat of additional terror attacks.
So Dick Gephardt and other Democratic leaders are doing the dance of avoidance, trying hard to make their points without appearing confrontational. "Now," said Mr. Gephardt, "is not a time for finger-pointing or politics as usual."
Mr. Bush has told us that the war against terror will continue indefinitely, and might well widen. He gave lip service in his speech to some issues of particular interest to Democrats and working families, like improvements in the public education system and a so-called patients' bill of rights. But advocates are not holding their breath. Mr. Bush made it clear that there will be very little money left for such initiatives.
Meanwhile, the ranks of the jobless and the homeless are growing. A renewed crisis in health care is brewing. Most Americans, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll, are having trouble paying their bills.
These are issues that generally favor the Democrats. But George W. Bush is very popular right now. And there's a war going on. And the fear of terror is pervasive.
So the Democrats are more or less cooling their heels, placed in check by a fellow who was initially viewed, at best, as a political lightweight. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); MURDER (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); DESERT STORM (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); BUDGETS (65%); TAX LAW (64%); JOB CREATION (62%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



960 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: An Address Sets a Tone Of New York Optimism 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has some very bad news for New York City. But yesterday, he chose only to hint at it, instead giving a speech peppered with many proposals that have wound their way through government before, and heaping teaspoons of optimism that New York is already gingerly stepping into its best days. 
 In his 40-minute address to the City Council, Mr. Bloomberg took pains to be inclusive, congratulating the new Council speaker, Gifford Miller, and singling out the Latino and Puerto Rican Cultural Center as one of the city's cultural jewels. And even as he cautioned that austerity was the mode of the day, he nearly parroted President Bush when he said: "I am pleased to report to you that the state of the city is strong." 
 Many of the mayor's signature proposals for the first year of his term were either borrowed from his predecessors or were at least visions that had undergone tweaking. 
Mr. Bloomberg's call for what he referred to as tort reform, his insistence on abolishing local school boards along with the Board of Education, and his proposal for economic development on Manhattan's West Side have all been raised by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani or go back even farther. The establishment of new recreational facilities on Randalls Island required Mr. Bloomberg's approval, but the plans were laid by Mr. Giuliani.
Even Mr. Bloomberg's idea for a "311" call system for citizens to use instead of individual government help lines was explored, albeit in a much more limited version, by the Giuliani administration, which decided that it was not practical.
As for tort changes -- calls for capping punitive damages and the fees for lawyers who bring lawsuits against government -- those proposals have made their way through the State Capitol for decades and stand about as good a chance of happening as when they were first proposed.
What is more, many of Mr. Bloomberg's ideas, like ballot reform, mayoral control of the Board of Education and tort revisions, would require the acquiescence of Albany. Others, like plans for developing the city's waterfronts and keeping social services intact, require money.
Indeed, two interesting dramas will unfold over the next few months of the Bloomberg mayoralty -- the struggle between his expansive social policy agenda and limited resources, and his pursuit of some of Mr. Giuliani's dreams, with a different style. 
Mr. Bloomberg received his one standing ovation for hammering away at one order of business Mr. Giuliani failed to finish, but perhaps cared about the most: the troubled Board of Education. Calling for the abolition of the local school boards and mayoral control of the schools, Mr. Bloomberg said: "We do not need more commissions; we do not need more studies; we have too long waited for change. It is time to act." 
Applause filled the City Council chamber as dozens of onlookers, including Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy, rose to their feet. By contrast, when Mr. Bloomberg noted that tort revision could result in "over $6,000 in extra salary we could otherwise give to each of our 80,000 teachers," there was only the sound of one set of hands clapping somewhere in the back of the room. 
In stressing his goal of gaining control over the board, and spending the greatest amount of time on that one issue, Mr. Bloomberg appeared to be staking out a significant area on which he expected his mayoralty to be judged, and expressing confidence that he could get the job done. 
Mr. Bloomberg explored some new ground. He called for reforming the way that people vote, particularly on referendums, which are often very difficult to find or understand under the current system. 
He also said that he would rewrite the annual Mayor's Management Report, a seemingly intentionally impenetrable document that outlines the administration's accomplishments. Rewriting it is so important a task, he said, that he has assigned it to the respected and overburdened deputy mayor for operations, Marc V. Shaw. And calling for more openness in government, as personified by Mr. Bloomberg's open-air office in City Hall, is a campaign theme that he clearly wants to make good on. 
In tone and style, Mr. Bloomberg distinguished himself from Mr. Giuliani, as he has several times since taking office. He gave his speech in the Council's chamber during one of its stated meetings, letting the members stay in their fancy leather seats, rather than clearing the room at a time of his choosing and replacing the furniture with folding chairs, as was Mr. Giuliani's wont.
Mr. Bloomberg's gestures did not end there. The city's comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., Public Advocate Betsy Gotbaum and the five borough presidents all were congratulated for their election victories. The mayor promised that his press office would meet monthly with minority journalists. And is there a formal occasion in City Hall that David N. Dinkins will not attend in the Bloomberg administration? 
Mr. Bloomberg, whose speaking style has improved greatly even in the last few months, did pepper his remarks with several odd idioms and shibboleths. Improving education, he insisted, "does not mean rearranging the deck chairs on the deck of our educational Titanic." And clearly the mayor did not quite mean to say "The rappelling gavel of tort liability ultimately hammers the taxpaying public," but whoever wrote the line did him no favors.
But Mr. Bloomberg is also displaying his art for one-liners, as when he called once again for elected officials to cut back their budgets. "If you cannot find ways to do more with less," he said, "I will be happy to send in my staff to show you how." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TORTS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); TORT REFORM (89%); LITIGATION (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CITIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); DAMAGES (67%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (51%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE CITY MESSAGE (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); STEINHAUER, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



961 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: FORUM IN NEW YORK: ORGANIZER; 
The 'Chief Visionary' Discusses His Creation

BYLINE:  By JOYCE WADLER 

 BODY:
Klaus Schwab can't remember the name of the Saudi prince he ran into in the lobby of the Waldorf-Astoria, but no matter. 
 He knows a prince when he sees one, even if the fellow was dressed in jeans and sneakers and a corduroy jacket, and the prince knew Mr. Schwab, who is the president of the World Economic Forum. 
 "Your Royal Highness," Mr. Schwab said. 
"Professor Schwab," the prince said.
There was a courteous little chat. The prince, who turned out to be Abdullah bin Faisal bin Turki al-Abdullah al-Saud, governor of the Saudi Arabian General Investment Authority, was delighted to be here. The defense minister was keen to come, the prince said, but he had just had an operation on his back.
"I know," said Mr. Schwab, in their chance meeting this week. 
Did Mr. Schwab, head of the event that brings 3,000 of the most powerful people in the world together in New York this week, really know that the defense minister had had surgery? Or was he vamping? 
He knew, Mr. Schwab, said, because of his very good people. As he keeps saying, the World Economic Forum is not Klaus Schwab.
Right. How was Mr. Schwab able to recognize this particular prince?
"I had a private meeting with the crown prince in Riyadh," Mr. Schwab said. "I remember his face."
So it goes. Ask the German-born Mr. Schwab, by training a mechanical engineer and economist, about the World Economic Forum and Mr. Schwab will insist, in German-accented English, that much of the program for this year's conference was put together by his staff.
Then he clarified.
"I am the chief visionary, the chief strategist," Mr. Schwab said, in a masterstroke of simultaneous self-promotion and self-deprecation. "I have not been involved except in some delicate sessions where all the top Irish people for the first time from Northern Ireland will sit together. I have also been particularly involved in everything with the religious leaders." 
Political influence? Newt Gingrich, introducing Klaus Schwab at a forum meeting, reportedly called him "a social maitre d'."
The curious thing about this is that Mr. Schwab, 63, is such a stiff, serious, formal fellow. If on one end of the range of human emotion there is Sally Field accepting her Academy Award, on the other end, balancing her nicely, is Klaus Schwab. 
Meet him on the Saturday before the conference and he'll proudly point out that he is not wearing a tie because it is the weekend. He'll also profess a willingness to be photographed in his shirt-sleeves. 
Then, unable to bear it, he cracked. He cracked when a photographer started shooting, during a discussion of the former Enron chief Kenneth L. Lay, who was on the list of attendees, and then, like the promise of dot-com riches, was gone.
Why did Mr. Schwab's people disinvite Kenneth Lay?
"Why? Because at the moment the company went into bankruptcy, they did not fit anymore the criteria of our membership. I must put on the jacket," Mr. Schwab said, with the most anxiety he had displayed until the subject of a Wall Street Journal investigative article came up.
"If you look at the invitees, we have our 1,000 member companies, you have to be the leader in your field, and the moment the company would run into bankruptcy or officially indicted, which as far as I know is not the case, we would suspend it."
Ask him about a typical day at home in Geneva and he runs through a routine that's as precise as a Swiss watch. Arise at 6:20. Exercise at 7.
Parties at his home can also be sobering. Mr. Schwab taught business strategy at a Swiss university for 28 years, and a guest at one dinner party recalled being given a discussion topic. 
Humor is not Mr. Schwab's strong suit. Still, it is there. Speaking of Hilde, his wife of 31 years, he says she is eight years his junior. Told eight years would probably be considered a slight difference to his chief executive members, he smiled. 
"With them it's probably double, probably triple, given the trend of modern times," he said.
He acknowledges security concerns in moving the conference out of Switzerland, but he has personal reasons too. Mr. Schwab was in New York on Sept. 11, as was his adult son, who works for an American company. His son had a meeting in the World Trade Center that afternoon. As for Mr. Klaus, he remembers wartime bombing.
Mr. Schwab was born in 1938 in Ravensburg, Germany. His father was the director of a Swiss company. The family grew up 15 miles from the Swiss border and could visit Switzerland throughout the war. Mr. Schwab was much affected by the idea that "you could cross a line and on one side there was peace and on the other side there was war." 
He studied engineering in deference to his father, but was also drawn to economics, so he studied both simultaneously in Switzerland, earning two doctoral degrees. His engineering degree required a year of factory work. He recalls 40-minute lunch breaks. 
"When you work at a machine, you get very dirty hands," he said. "The big question for me was do I go wash my hands and get them completely clean, and then I just have 20 minutes to queue up in the cafeteria. As you know we have union leaders" -- 40 out of 2,700 participants this year, by his organization's count -- "and it gives me still today great respect for them. I wouldn't like to miss this experience."
In 1965, Mr. Schwab went to Harvard to study business and politics. Returning to Europe, he had an idea: Europeans, concerned about the rising American business challenge, would probably pay to learn about American business practices. The first meeting was held in Davos, Switzerland, in 1971.
Eventually, the World Economic Forum become host to the world's wealthiest and most powerful people. In 1998, Mr. Schwab set up the Schwab Foundation for Social and Economic Development. 
Two years later, on opening day of the Davos meeting, The Wall Street Journal ran an article citing "a confusing web" of his "overlapping personal and professional interests, especially when it comes to the forum's for-profit initiatives.". Among the findings were that Mr. Schwab, shortly after a forum contract was awarded to an American Internet consulting company, USWeb Corporation, became a member of the board and received stock options. The Swiss Federal Supervisory Board for Foundations investigated and found no improprieties. 
Mr. Schwab, asked about these accusations, is hurt.
"I was a member of USWeb and like any member I got stock options," he said. "I wanted to make the beneficiaries the foundation, but I was advised by legal counsel stock options had to be held in the name of the member. But for me it was always clear that the beneficiary was the foundation."
He says, in answer to questioning, that today he is on the boards of two profit-making companies, Daily Mail General Trust in England and Bank Vontobel, a private bank in Zurich.
"But why shouldn't I?" he asked. "If you ask the head of M.I.T. or the big universities, they are sitting on boards."
"I have nothing to reproach me," he said. "What is key is nobody ever can prove, can show," he rephrased, "I never made one dollar based on using my privileged relationship with the forum for me personally."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Klaus Schwab, president of the World Economic Forum, attended by 3,000 powerful people this week. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); RELIGION (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: ARABIAN GENERAL INVESTMENT CORP (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (93%) WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: CHARLES R SCHWAB (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%) WADLER, JOYCE; SCHWAB, KLAUS 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



962 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Warns About Deficit While Promising to Rebuild 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
In his first address to City Council on the state of the city, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg vowed yesterday to rebuild from the World Trade Center attack, warned that it would be difficult to close the city's looming budget deficit and proposed a new central phone number, 311, that New Yorkers could call to reach all city agencies.
 Mr. Bloomberg got his biggest ovation of the day when he turned to what is becoming for him a familiar theme, emphatically renewing his call for abolishing both the Board of Education and the city's 32 community school boards and placing the city's schools directly under mayoral control. "The Board of Education is intrinsically incapable of meeting the educational needs of our children," he said. "It must go." 
 The new mayor delivered his 40-minute speech in a businesslike style, offering little in the way of new policy proposals and not indulging in the theatrics and props that his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, employed on these occasions. Mr. Bloomberg chose a regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council for his speech, addressing the many new members like a chief executive laying out an annual plan to the board. 
Mr. Bloomberg ushered in his own innovation for these annual addresses: mayoral product placement. In thanking American Express for returning to its offices in Lower Manhattan, he praised its chairman, Kenneth I. Chenault, and said, "Just let me tell you, I've started to use only my American Express card after Ken made that commitment, and I urge you to do it, too." 
Seeking to balance a sense of optimism about New York's future and pride in the strides it has taken since "the most lethal attack from a foreign enemy that has ever occurred in the history of our country," the mayor warned bluntly about its fiscal woes. He cautioned that it would not be easy or painless to close the $4 billion budget deficit the city faces in the fiscal year beginning in July. Although he said several times that the budget ax would fall in several places, Mr. Bloomberg mentioned no specific areas for cutbacks, and his aides have withheld details of the budget plan he has to present in two weeks. 
He spoke of hoping to spur redevelopment on the West Side of Manhattan, revive the city's waterfront, build a new library in the Bronx with a Latino and Puerto Rican cultural center, and work to put educational facilities on Governors Island and new entertainment and athletic facilities on Randalls Island. Still, he noted that many city projects would have to be delayed until better fiscal times.
Mr. Bloomberg said the city could not afford to maintain its 250,000-member work force -- a seventh of the federal work force, not counting the military, he said -- but made no concrete proposals on how to reduce it. 
And he told city agencies to brace for budget cuts. "These are hard times," he said. "We must be hard nosed, we must be hard headed, but we can't be hard hearted."
Beyond the question of cuts, the mayor discussed a number of proposals that have been circulating in city government for some time: continuing the Police Department's crackdown on quality-of-life crimes, lengthening the No. 7 subway line to the far west side of Manhattan, expanding the Javits Convention Center and bidding for the 2012 Olympics. 
Even his central theme, abolishing the Board of Education and giving the mayor control of the school system, was long a fixture of Mr. Giuliani's annual addresses to the Council. Mr. Giuliani had once said that the board should be "blown up," but Mr. Bloomberg was more temperate. He said that there were "too many cooks" at the board, and that they produced "a political stew rather than a sound education."
"All of us in this room were elected to improve education," he told the assemblage. "And that does not mean simply rearranging the chairs on the deck of our educational Titanic."
Not even 3 percent of eligible voters participate in school board elections, Mr. Bloomberg said, a level he called evidence of the failure of the community school board system, which was created to decentralize control of the system. He said the boards should be abolished, and he called for new ways to encourage parental involvement. "Parents want to talk to educators, not to middlemen," he said. 
On the day earlier this week that the mayor asked the state Legislature to overhaul the city's education system and put it under his control, the Legislature voted to postpone community school board elections for a year. Many Democrats have long opposed abolition of the Board of Education, although some of that resistance has softened. Still, even on Monday, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a longtime opponent of eliminating the board, would only say that a task force was studying the issue. 
The mayor's call for an education overhaul got by far the longest standing ovation on an afternoon in which his speech was interrupted by applause some three dozen times. Even Harold O. Levy, the schools chancellor, stood and applauded -- to be courteous, he explained later. 
Mr. Levy said he supported Mr. Bloomberg's proposal to eliminate the community school boards but had no position on what should happen to the Board of Education. "I've said repeatedly, I'm not going to be drawn on the question of what the right governance structure is centrally," he said. 
Mr. Bloomberg also pledged to run a more open, user-friendly government.
He said he would create a Citizens Service Center that would allow New Yorkers to call one phone number, 311, to reach all government services. The city now has more than 40 separate call centers and hotlines, he noted, and the city's numbers take up 11 pages in the phone book. "No one can be knowledgeable enough to find his or her needle in a haystack that big," he said.
Officials have considered using a 311 number for several years, but as a center for nonemergency police calls to relieve the 911 system. Mr. Bloomberg's plan is directed chiefly at public service. 
The mayor projected self-assurance and confidence, wearing a pinstripe suit and a red tie as he addressed a standing-room-only crowd in the City Council's wood-paneled chamber on the second floor of City Hall. But he was not immune to the occasional slips of the tongue that sometimes occurred in his campaign, referring once to the "post-Nov. 11" world. 
For the most part he got high marks from the council members, city officials and others in the audience, but several said they would reserve judgment until they heard more detailed proposals. The mayor is planning to unveil his budget plan Feb. 13, a day before he had planned. Aides spoke of avoiding references to a "St. Valentine's Day Massacre."
There were some indications that the mayor's honeymoon period may be drifting to an end, as he is inevitably forced to be more specific on some proposals and called on to take sides in policy debates. Several members of the Council said they were taken aback by his ringing endorsement of term limits, which some have been privately hoping to overturn. "We will not go back," the mayor said.
Gifford Miller, the new Council speaker, praised the speech but disagreed with the mayor's blanket opposition to raising taxes, saying the city should push the state to reinstate the commuter tax, which was levied for decades on people who work in the city but live outside it. 
Lee Saunders, the leader of District Council 37, the largest union of municipal workers, said he was troubled by Mr. Bloomberg's statement that the city could not afford to maintain its work force level. 
Bill Perkins, a council member representing Harlem, questioned the mayor's statement that New Yorkers were demanding mayoral control of the schools. "No parent has ever come up to me and said, 'I want you to make sure that the mayor is in charge of the public school system,' " he said. 
Many others were enthusiastic. "I give the speech a thumbs-up," said City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., a Democrat. "The line that I liked the most, out of the entire speech, was where he said among the proudest words spoken in this country are 'I am a New Yorker.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg acknowledging applause yesterday. The most enthusiastic response greeted his call for eliminating the school board. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); MAYORS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); CREDIT CARDS (70%); AIRLINES (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (60%); EXECUTIVES (51%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); STATE OF THE CITY MESSAGE (NYC); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MAYORS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) 

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); KENNETH I CHENAULT (50%) COOPER, MICHAEL; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



963 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: FORUM IN NEW YORK: PAST FORUMS; 
Bereft, Swiss Town Pines for Jet-Set Movers and World-Class Shakers

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
As the World Economic Forum, in all its pomp and glitter, gets under way on Thursday at the Waldorf-Astoria, this remote Alpine ski resort is in shell shock.
 The Hotel Seehof, which has been host to Yasir Arafat and Shimon Peres, not to mention Bill Gates and Hillary Clinton, is begging for customers and cutting its rates by half. 
 At Christ, a jewelry store that sells Piaget and Chopard watches for up to $13,000, big signs announce that selected items have been reduced by "up to 50 percent."
For 32 years, this small town was home to what is now the world's biggest annual extravaganza of the rich and powerful. 
"Davos" evolved from being the name of just another Swiss ski resort into a word that conjured glamour, wealth and power.
Now there is an uncomfortable feeling here that Davos may have chased away the goose that lays its golden eggs. The Davoser Zeitung, the local daily newspaper, summarized the anxiety in a headline quoting one local leader as saying the city would "watch how New York handles our conference."
Davos is really just a small town with some spectacular mountain views and good skiing, but fairly bleak architecture. The town has a only a handful of five-star hotels, and more than 100 that range from mediocre to downright dingy.
The Davos Congress Center, which is usually the hub of the World Economic Forum, is bleak and gray.
But the allure of the World Economic Forum had become so powerful that none of that mattered. Wealthy executives contented themselves with cramped rooms in three-star hotels and paid $200 a night for the privilege. 
"For one week a year, this little town becomes a global village, it becomes the center of what is happening in the world," said Hanspeter Angerer, the owner of a sporting goods store here and head of the Davos Tourism Board. "It's something we got used to, and of course it's something we miss."
Last year many residents, alarmed that the conference began attracting violent protests against globalization, became fed up with the World Economic Forum.
Parents fretted that the protesters had made the town too dangerous for their children. Shopkeepers complained that security measures had turned the village into an armed fortress, where the wealthy guests could barely go out and shop.
"It was like being in a prison, all barbed-wire, police with machine guns and blockades," said Max Berthoud, who owns a small antique shop called Coccodrillo. "I am happy to have the World Economic Forum return here, but not if it is like that."
Estimated security costs for the conference soared to $7.2 million, prompting a fight among Swiss politicians at the national level.
Last week, after months of debate, the Swiss cabinet promised to pay 80 percent of the costs of protecting foreign leaders until at least 2005. Klaus Schwab, the former professor who founded the World Economic Forum, agreed to bring the meeting back to Davos next year, but did not make any promises beyond that.
But even if the forum returns here next year, many local residents are pessimistic. 
"I don't think it will stay here for much longer," said Franz Kaufmann, who owns a tool shop here and leads a trio that played 12-foot Alpine horns at the opening of the World Economic Forum.
"I think they will find there are advantages in New York City, and they will either stay there or start looking for other locations."
Most business owners and local political leaders desperately want to get the gathering to return to Davos and stay. To help lobby for the cause, city officials and business leaders are flying to New York, bringing Mr. Kaufmann's horn trio with them.
But some townspeople admit that they have grown a little weary of the World Economic Forum. Shopkeepers and inn-keepers complained that the gathering changed as the number of participants soared into the thousands and more high-profile political leaders came.
"They come in their helicopters, spend all day going from one thing to the next and then they're gone," complained Boris Bossi, owner of Paar Senn, a sports clothing store. "They don't have any time to shop or go skiing anymore."
The arrival of anti-globalization protesters made things much more difficult. Two years ago, protesters smashed a local McDonald's and began attacking the police who tried to restrain them. Two police officers were injured.
Last year, town officials tried to block protesters from getting into town. They also erected barbed-wire barriers around the conference center and in parts of town where foreign political leaders were staying. Mr. Bossi's store was trapped behind the police barricades and was forced to shut down for most of the four days of the conference.
Even so, protesters blocked roads leading into town, disrupting the arrival of conference participants. 
"We are a tourist destination and our livelihood comes from tourism," said Stephan Staub, the city's legal counsel. "But we don't want people to destroy our houses and shops."
Mr. Schwab and his conference organizers have been frustrated by the reluctance of Swiss leaders to support him on security costs. They have also grumbled for years that Davos needs more top-quality hotel rooms.
Felix Hubli, owner of Hubli's Landhaus, an inn in a nearby village that sits nearly empty this year, said Davos and the World Economic Forum were in a tired marriage. He said he hoped the one-time separation would do both sides some good.
"Maybe after being in New York, the wife they have had for the past 30 years will end up looking a lot better than before," he said.

GRAPHIC: Map of Switzerland highlighting Davos: Davos has become synonymous with glamour, wealth and power. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RESORTS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); SKIING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (85%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (78%); RETAILERS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (73%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (71%); TRENDS (71%); RELIGION (71%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); RIOTS (65%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (94%) WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SHIMON PERES (57%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%) SWITZERLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) DAVOS (SWITZERLAND); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



964 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Bush Asks Volunteers To Join Fight On Terrorism 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: WINSTON-SALEM, N.C., Jan. 30 

 BODY:
President Bush said today that he would create a national volunteer agency called Citizen Corps to engage Americans in protecting the United States from terrorist attacks and helping out in future catastrophes.
 Citizen Corps would recruit and train retired doctors and health care workers for emergencies and enlist truckers, letter carriers, ship captains and others in reporting suspicious activity to the authorities. Citizen Corps would also double the number of Neighborhood Watch programs in the United States and increase training in local communities for disaster preparedness. 
 "At home, you fight evil with acts of goodness," Mr. Bush said here at the start of a two-day trip designed to spread Tuesday night's State of the Union message that domestic security was his first priority. "You overcome the evil in society by doing something to help somebody." 
Mr. Bush then noted his father's presidency and its celebration of charitable work as a "thousand points of light" to define voluntarism as "the momentum of a million acts of kindness." But Mr. Bush would greatly expand his father's work, and incorporate voluntarism into a large government program run from the White House.
Citizen Corps would be the domestic security arm of a new USA Freedom Corps, an umbrella organization that Mr. Bush created by executive order on Tuesday. The USA Freedom Corps is also to include expansions of three existing volunteer programs -- the Peace Corps, Senior Corps and AmeriCorps.
AmeriCorps places volunteers in poor communities, often as teachers in inner city schools. It was developed early in the Clinton administration and at the time was derided by most Republicans in Congress. 
Today, Bush administration officials said they would seek $560 million from Congress in next year's budget to finance USA Corps and to expand the existing programs.
Mr. Bush himself sounded like a recruitment officer as he repeated his call from his State of the Union address for two years or 4,000 hours of lifetime volunteer service from every American.
"If you listened to the speech last night, you know, people were saying, 'Well, gosh, that's nice, he called me to action, where do I look?' " Mr. Bush told a loudly cheering crowd at the Lawrence Joel Veterans Memorial Coliseum. "Well, here's where: at usafreedomcorps.gov." Mr. Bush then added: "Or you can call this number -- it sounds like I'm making a pitch, and I am. This is the right thing to do for America. 1-877-USACORPS."
Mr. Bush said John Bridgeland, the director of the White House Domestic Policy Council, would be the executive director of the USA Freedom Corps, which will be part of the executive office of the president.
"By taking him off the Domestic Policy Council and putting him in charge of USA Freedom, I am obviously making a strong commitment to the future of this organization," Mr. Bush said. "He'll be held accountable. When we say we're going to get more people involved, I'll be asking him on a regular basis, 'How are we doing?' "
Mr. Bridgeland said in a news briefing here that the administration was seeking to increase the number of Peace Corps volunteers, from 7,000 to about 15,000, the all-time high reached by the program in 1966. Mr. Bridgeland also said that the Peace Corps would return to Afghanistan as soon as it was safe to help in reconstruction efforts.
He added that the administration was seeking 25,000 more AmeriCorps participants and 100,000 new members of the Senior Corps, a volunteer program for retirees. Mr. Bush is proposing to lower the age for Senior Corps participation to 55 from 60. He is also offering such incentives as earned scholarships that may be transferred to grandchildren or others.
Throughout his appearances today, Mr. Bush reprised his themes about fighting terrorism and recession. He said that "thousands and thousands of killers" had been trained in terrorist camps in Afghanistan and were still "around the world," and that discoveries by the United States military in the caves of Afghanistan showed that the terrorists had "designs on our homeland still."
Mr. Bush was referring to the diagrams of American nuclear power plants and public water facilities that he said had been found in Al Qaeda hideouts.
The president, who won North Carolina handily in the 2000 presidential campaign, referred to himself today as "a good conservative Republican" who nonetheless had good things to say about Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts. Senator Jesse Helms, the state's retiring Republican, chuckled at that remark.
Mr. Bush got one of his loudest applause lines when he told the crowd that he was still in favor of tax cuts, then alluded to Democrats like Mr. Kennedy who want to delay them.
"For those who want to do away with tax relief," Mr. Bush said, "you don't know what you're talking about."
Later in the day, Mr. Bush traveled to Daytona Beach, Fla., where he spoke at a rally and sounded hoarse and tired. The president said the enemy had been watching too much American television and did not understand the resolve of the nation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Winston-Salem, N.C., President Bush talked about security. Joining him was Tom Ridge, center, the director of homeland security. (Reuters) Chart "BY THE NUMBERS: Answering the Call" tracks the number of Peace Corps volunteers since 1961.(Source: Peace Corps)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLUNTEERS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (90%); EXECUTIVES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); HOME SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (74%); DISASTER PLANNING (73%); BUDGETS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); TRENDS (71%) TERRORISM; VOLUNTEERS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LABOR; DOCTORS; EMERGENCY MEDICAL TREATMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (82%) CITIZENS CORP 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (92%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



965 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Green Berets Take Humbling Victory Lap in New York 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
Somewhere between sitting near Laura Bush for the State of the Union address, doing a live interview the next morning with CBS and ringing the closing bell of the New York Stock Exchange, Capt. Jason Amerine of the Army's Fifth Special Forces Group apologized if anyone had the impression that he was not 100 percent. He had had only an hour of sleep.
 "If I fall asleep, it's nothing personal," Captain Amerine said. "But it's critical to me that my team not be remembered as accident victims, but be remembered as the heroes that they are." 
 What Captain Amerine's team did was fight alongside Hamid Karzai, now the interim leader of Afghanistan, in helping to topple the Taliban. But on Dec. 5, while en route to Kandahar, three of Captain Amerine's men were killed, and dozens of other people injured, when an American bomb missed its target. This week, Captain Amerine's men, who returned to the United States several weeks ago to convalesce, were honored in the nation's capital and in New York.
If it was not quite a hero's welcome filled with ticker tape, then it was an enthusiastic welcome captured on videotape, over and over again, as Captain Amerine's team, in full military regalia, dashed around Washington and New York on a whirlwind victory lap that was caked with ceremony and publicity.
On Tuesday, some of the men were in Washington, meeting Congressional leaders and attending the State of the Union address. Yesterday was New York's turn, with trips to ground zero, lunch with a top aide to the secretary of the Army at the 21 Club, live interviews with CBS, Fox and CNBC, and a tour of the New York Stock Exchange. They also made plans to squeeze in drinks with Steve Dunleavy, the New York Post columnist, at Langan's restaurant and pub on West 47th Street.
Granted, they may have been overshadowed by Mr. Karzai's visit, the World Economic Forum and the Enron scandal. Even so, Captain Amerine's men said they wanted to do their utmost to remind the country that their brethren were still fighting in Afghanistan.
"Enron is a minor thing compared to what's going on over there," said Sgt. Chris Fathi, 37, a native of Fairfax, Va., who suffered shrapnel wounds, leg burns and the damage of both eardrums in the bombing. "Our mission is not over. The U.S. has to spend a lot of money, and we've got to make a government."
Captain Amerine's team of 11 men entered Afghanistan through Pakistan in early November, traveling by helicopter, mule and truck. Almost immediately, they scored critical successes as they helped Mr. Karzai's forces foment a resistance movement in Oruzgan Province.
But on Dec. 5, an errant 2,000-pound American bomb from a B-52 killed three team members and 10 Afghan soldiers, and injured dozens of others. 
"I remember a big red flash, and a quick ringing in the ears," said Sgt. Michael McElhiney, of Kansas City, Mo., who lost his right arm and is now recovering at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. "It was a river of blood pouring out."
With the exception of Sergeant McElhiney, the injured men have been recovering at home in recent weeks. For some, the healing process has been slow and difficult. Sergeant Fathi, for instance, still has difficulty walking, cannot sleep well and must wrap his lower body in bandages.
Most of the men have kept a low profile, too. But two weeks ago, 15 men, including Captain Amerine's group, were honored with Purple Hearts and 4 with Bronze Stars in a ceremony at their base of Fort Campbell, Ky. This week, one of the highlights, clearly, was the invitation to the State of the Union address.
Not everything went as planned. By midafternoon yesterday, one of the Green Berets, Sgt. Chris Pickett, a native of Logansport, Ind., had to drop out of the media carousel because he was still fighting the flu.
Still, the soldiers said they were humbled and moved by their experience in New York. Everywhere they went, they were greeted with handshakes, kind words and perhaps, most pointedly, thunderous applause from traders on the floor of the stock exchange.
"I was getting choked up down there," Captain Amerine said after receiving a cascade of pats on the back. Then, asked if he was feeling the effects of his sleep deprivation, he answered: "I'll be good for a week after this. The experience was too big to describe. I'll be like, 'I did what?' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, Richard A. Grasso, left, the chairman of the exchange, spoke with two Green Berets, Sgt. Chris Fathi and Capt. Jason Amerine, and Bob Pisani of CNBC. (Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ARMED FORCES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); TALIBAN (74%); HIJACKING (74%); TERRORISM (70%); BURN INJURIES (70%); RESTAURANTS (68%); DRINKING PLACES (68%); AIRLINES (68%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (61%); HELICOPTERS (60%); SCANDALS (50%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%) SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (88%) AMERINE, JASON (CAPT); KARZAI, HAMID; CHEN, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



966 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: FED HOLDS STEADY ON INTEREST RATES AS ECONOMY FIRMS 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON with DAVID LEONHARDT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Against the backdrop of an economy that is displaying remarkable resilience, the Federal Reserve brought its yearlong campaign of interest rate cuts to an apparent end today, voting to hold rates steady and citing signs of an incipient recovery.
 The decision by the central bank was announced a few hours after the Commerce Department reported that the economy had defied widespread predictions of a sharp contraction after the terrorist attacks to show a small growth rate in the last three months of the year. 
 The department said the economy expanded at an annual rate of 0.2 percent in October, November and December, driven in large part by robust consumer spending, especially on new cars. In the previous quarter, the economy contracted at a 1.3 percent annual rate. 
Economists stopped short of declaring an end to the recession, which began in March. They said there were still too many uncertainties to assume the economy would bounce back steadily, among them the likelihood that today's report would be revised as more complete data became available. 
But today's figures, which economists said were far more optimistic than the drop of one to two percentage points most of them had expected, suggested that the worst was past and that the foundations for a sustained turnaround were in place.
"We're on the road to recovery," said Bill Cheney, chief economist at John Hancock Financial Services.
The Fed's announcement set off a strong rally on Wall Street, with stock prices rising after being down earlier in the day. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 144.62 points, to 9,762.86. The Nasdaq composite index finished at 1,913.44, up 20.45 points.
The Fed's decision to leave rates unchanged underscored the emerging consensus among economists and investors that the economy was turning and that the recession, the first in a decade, would prove to be relatively brief and mild.
The Fed's decision left its benchmark, the federal funds target rate on overnight loans among banks, at 1.75 percent. The Fed had cut the rate 11 times since last January, by a total of 4.75 percentage points, first in an effort to head off a downturn and then to keep the recession as short as possible.
"Signs that weakness in demand is abating and economic activity is beginning to firm have become more prevalent," the Fed said in a prepared statement. "The outlook for economic recovery has become more promising."
The Fed left in place its tilt toward possible further interest rate cuts, saying "the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future."
But analysts expect Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, to keep rates steady at least until the summer as he assesses the strength of the recovery. Investors are betting that the next move by the Fed will be to raise rates, if not this summer then by the fall.
A quick and sustained recovery could have enormous political implications. It could remove one of President Bush's few current vulnerabilities and help Republicans in Congress as they head toward November's midterm elections. And it could reduce the pressures that have helped create the budget deficit, giving both parties more room to pursue their agendas.
But the interplay of economics and politics is so complex that administration officials, who might have been expected to trumpet signs of a recovery, remained muted. They said their goal was to keep up the pressure on the Democratic-controlled Senate to pass the package of new and accelerated tax cuts Mr. Bush seeks.
In a statement, the president said today's report was positive, "but we cannot take growth and job creation for granted." 
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said the economy still needed help, primarily in the form of tax cuts for individuals and businesses, to help avert the continued rise in unemployment that typically follows the technical end of a recession. The unemployment rate is currently 5.8 percent, representing 8.26 million people out of work.
"Our economy is going to recover," Mr. O'Neill said. "The issue is, should we let another 200,000 or 400,000 Americans lose their jobs when by taking this action we could prevent that possibility?"
Leaders of both parties said they still favored some kind of economic recovery package, if only to extend unemployment benefits for people whose 26-week eligibility period is over. A report today from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal-leaning research group, found that nearly 860,000 people exhausted their unemployment benefits in the fourth quarter.
But with Democrats opposed to most of the tax cuts being sought by Mr. Bush and the economy regaining its health, some members of both parties said it could become more difficult to bridge their differences.
Recessions are often defined as two consecutive quarters of contraction. Should today's figures hold up as they are revised, they would mean that the economy contracted only in last year's third quarter. 
But the academic group that dates business cycles, the National Bureau of Economic Research, uses a more refined definition based on monthly peaks and valleys for indicators like industrial output, employment and income. It pays little attention to quarterly economic growth figures, and typically waits many months after the fact to judge when a recession has begun or ended.
The question now, investors and analysts said, is what kind of recovery it will prove to be. Some economists are forecasting a strong comeback by the summer. Others are predicting a long period of tepid growth, with the possibility that the economy could resume shrinking.
The report on fourth-quarter gross domestic product will be revised twice in coming months. But it pictured an economy in which businesses spent the end of last year cutting their inventories of goods and supplies to bring them in line with diminished demand, and consumers, lured by sales and cut-rate financing, kept their wallets open. The economy was also helped by a 9.2 percent increase in government purchases.
Consumers contributed the most to the quarter's growth, increasing their spending 5.4 percent at an annual rate, the largest increase since early 2000, when the economy was still booming. Spending on cars registered its largest increase since 1971 as buyers were lured by zero-interest financing on many models.
The value of goods that companies kept on their shelves, meanwhile, fell by $120.6 billion, the largest drop on record, as businesses slashed inventories. Economists say the economy should now get a boost from increased production as companies begin to stock up again.
"The overhang has been well disposed of," said Richard J. DeKaser, chief economist at the National City Corporation in Cleveland. "We start 2002 with a very healthy balance of inventories."
The enormous decline in business investment also showed some signs of abating. Corporate spending on new technology and equipment fell 5.2 percent in the fourth quarter, its fifth consecutive decline but the smallest one since early last year.
There was no sign of inflation. Excluding a distortion having to do with insurance payments related to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the inflation gauge tied to the gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter.

GRAPHIC: Chart "Real Economic Growth" tracks the annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product since 1997.(Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TERRORISM (76%); HIJACKING (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; CREDIT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (82%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; LEONHARDT, DAVID; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



967 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ROGUE LIST; 
Bush Aides Say Tough Tone Put Foes on Notice

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
President Bush decided to lump Iran and North Korea with Iraq as members of an "axis of evil" whose support for terrorism seeks to acquire and spread weapons of mass destruction, officials said today, despite the fact that the two nations have sporadically sought improved relations with the United States.
 Administration officials insisted that Mr. Bush was not suggesting imminent military action against any of the three countries. But several officials -- including some who had argued for toning down the language in drafts of his State of the Union address -- said in interviews that the president was insistent that he use the opportunity to send a clear warning that any nation that puts its nuclear or biological weapons within reach of terrorists can expect the strongest American reaction. 
 From Western Europe to Russia to South Korea today, several allies of America said they feared that Mr. Bush's strong language would widen the fissures in the coalition against terrorism, set back reformers in Iran and shut down talks with North Korea. Page A12. 
But in an emphatic defense of Mr. Bush's position, Donald H. Rumsfeld, the secretary of defense and one of the more hawkish members of Mr. Bush's national security team, said the president's message had "near-perfect clarity." He argued that despite Iran's early offers to help in the war against terrorism, "we know Iran is actively sending terrorists" to threaten Israel and "we also know that they have a very active weapons-of-mass-destruction program." 
The combination could lead to catastrophe, Mr. Rumsfeld said, and "the world has to know the potential not for thousands of people to be killed but tens of thousands of people to be killed." 
Little that Mr. Bush said about the individual countries he cited was new. He has often warned President Saddam Hussein of Iraq in recent months, and the administration has openly said it will seek ways to destabilize his government. Today, Ahmad Chalabi, a leader of the Iraqi National Congress opposition group based in London, was seen at the Pentagon and elsewhere in Washington, and State Department officials said the administration was restoring its full monthly financing levels for the group after cutting it back because of accounting disputes.
Two months ago, Mr. Bush demanded that North Korea open its entire territory to nuclear inspection, even while members of the administration conceded that the country appeared to be complying with a 1994 accord to freeze its nuclear weapons program. 
Mr. Bush and his aides have often expressed skepticism that reformers in Iran would prevail over anti-American hard-liners who control the military and intelligence services and are pursuing nuclear weapons production. "There are people in the State Department who want to think Iran is changing because everyone's drinking Coca-Cola," a White House official said, "but the evidence isn't there."
But until drafts of Mr. Bush's State of the Union address began circulating in the administration, the president had never commented on the three countries collectively, and never referred to them in the stark terms that his "axis of evil" phraseology implied.
That wording rocketed around the world today, and led to puzzled calls from diplomats here in Washington seeking to explain it in cables back to their capitals. The White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said that in reaching for the word "axis," Mr. Bush meant no comparison to the Axis powers of Germany, Italy and Japan during World War II.
He said the expression was "more rhetorical than historical."
Earlier drafts of the speech, two officials said, went even further in describing possible links among the three nations. But the evidence was thin; "North Korea has had more exchanges of missile technology with Pakistan than with Iran," one official said, adding:
"So we pared back to the essential warning: If you develop these weapons, and if you mess with terrorists, sooner or later we will make you regret it."
Richard A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman, seemed to acknowledge the delicacy of the point today when he said "there are some relationships between these countries," but offered few details. 
Administration officials said today that in the days after Sept. 11, they had hopes that Iran's offer of support -- including landing rights if the United States needed to run rescue operations in Afghanistan -- presaged a major turning point in relations. 
But as events unfolded, Mr. Boucher said, "we began to have some serious concerns about what Iran was doing in the various places on the ground in Afghanistan." Then came the Karine A, the ship Israel seized as it was on its way to deliver smuggled arms from an Iranian port to Palestinian forces. 
A senior administration official said, "That was a sign to the president that the Iranians weren't serious." 
While Mr. Bush's words were strong, it was unclear today how he planned to back them up with action. "I think you have to read it as signaling an increasing preoccupation with the nexus of weapons of mass destruction and states that support terrorism," a senior administration official. "It's not clear what policies will flow from it."
Mr. Bush himself has not yet taken up those decisions, aides say. He is still debating how to build an international consensus to overthrow Mr. Hussein, a move that Germany and Arab nations have warned against. Similarly, Mr. Bush has only begun to address the more subtle questions of dealing with Iran, which has deep economic ties to Western European allies and Russia.
Mr. Bush has a more complex problem ahead of him as he travels next month to South Korea, where Kim Dae Jung has staked his presidency on a "sunshine" policy of offering economic incentives to the Stalinist government in the North.
Mr. Bush's trip has already encountered some complications: Torkel L. Patterson, the senior director for Asian Affairs in the National Security Council, resigned suddenly last week, citing "personal reasons." Administration officials say his departure had nothing to do with policy, but his departure removes one of the few senior White House officials with long experience in Northeast Asia.
When Mr. Bush and Mr. Kim first met, here in Washington last spring, Mr. Bush's team was engaged in an internal battle over whether to continue the Clinton administration's efforts to negotiate with North Korea -- and hold open the possibility of economic aid -- or whether to contain its power.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell argued that Mr. Clinton's diplomacy toward the North had "useful elements" that should be pursued. It was one of his first clashes with more hawkish elements of the Republican Party and the Pentagon, but ultimately Secretary Powell appeared to have prevailed -- at least until Tuesday night. 
Now, South Korean officials, who say they have been given assurances that Mr. Bush will endorse the "sunshine policy," fear that the State of the Union address set back the cause for months or years.
South Korea's ambassador to Washington, Yang Sung Chul, said today that "as a result of the persistent pursuit of the sunshine policy, the tension level on the Korean Peninsula is at an all time low." When Mr. Bush arrives in Seoul on Feb. 19, he said, "we expect he will clear up this lack of clarity on the issue."
Mr. Boucher said today that the president still supported Mr. Kim's overtures to the North. But Kurt Campbell, a former defense official who specializes in Asian affairs and spent years working on the Korea issue, said: "The slight warming of relations between the U.S. and North Korea prior to the speech is over. Now, it will be back in the freezer."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representatives of Iran, Iraq and North Korea, the three countries labeled by President Bush as constituting an "axis of evil," reacted angrily to the charges yesterday. Among them, Vice President Taha Yassin Ramadan of Iraq, pictured above speaking to reporters in Baghdad, and President Mohammad Khatami of Iran, seen below during a cabinet meeting in Tehran, pointedly rejected the accusations. (Agence France-Presse); (Associated Press)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICS (79%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); INSPECTIONS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%) TERRORISM; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (50%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN (58%) IRAN; IRAQ; NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



968 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Bush Budget to Seek Job Training Cut 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30 

 BODY:
Even though unemployment has increased sharply in recent months, President Bush's budget will seek cuts in several job-training programs for laid-off workers and young adults most affected by the rise in unemployment, budget documents and federal officials say.
 Bush administration officials question the effectiveness of some of the jobs programs, which Congress created with overwhelming bipartisan support four years ago. 
 The United States Conference of Mayors sent a protest letter this week to the White House criticizing an administration plan to cut "youth opportunity grants," to $45 million next year from $225 million this year. The mayors said the cut would hurt some of the poorest communities, including parts of Detroit, Houston, Los Angeles and Philadelphia. 
A spokesman for the White House Office of Management and Budget, Trent D. Duffy, defended the proposal, saying that the youth opportunity grants would be "streamlined and merged into the Job Corps and another program" that served a similar purpose.
Budget documents also indicate that the administration will propose a cut of $9.1 billion, or 29 percent, in federal highway spending, to $22.7 billion next year from $31.8 billion this year. Federal and state officials said the administration would justify the proposal by citing a decline in gasoline taxes and other revenue collected for the Federal Highway Trust Fund.
The chairman of the House Transportation Committee, Representative Don Young, Republican of Alaska, and the panel's senior Democrat, Representative James L. Oberstar of Minnesota, said the proposed cut was unacceptable. In a joint statement, they said it would force states to abandon or postpone many highway projects and "could result in hundreds of thousands of Americans being thrown out of work."
The number of unemployed people rose 40 percent last year, to 8.3 million in December from 5.9 million in January, according to data published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The White House is acutely sensitive to any suggestion that it is not doing enough for the unemployed.
Mr. Duffy of the budget office said, "The president is seeking an increase in total resources available to support job training." 
To reach that conclusion, the White House counts money that it assumes will be unspent this year and can be carried over to 2003. State officials say that argument overstates the amount available because they have signed contracts and made other commitments to use much of the money.
Mr. Duffy said the money for job training would increase far more if Congress approved the president's economic stimulus plan. That plan includes $4 billion of "national emergency grants." The White House says about half the money would be used to retrain workers who lose jobs because of plant closings or large-scale layoffs.
But state officials said they were more likely to use the money to help workers keep their health insurance coverage or to extend their unemployment benefits.
Mr. Young and Mr. Oberstar said the highway fund had a balance of more than $18 billion and could support a higher level of spending than Mr. Bush is expected to propose.
A table prepared by the Transportation Department shows that New York's highway allocation, now $1.4 billion, would be reduced by $370 million under the proposal. The American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials criticized the proposal, saying it would hamper economic recovery and stifle the creation of jobs in construction and related industries.
Mr. Bush plans to announce his budget request on Monday. He and his aides have disclosed plans to increase the Pentagon budget and spending for domestic security and certain health and nutrition programs. The administration has been reluctant to divulge plans for cuts.
But budget documents show that the Office of Management and Budget has proposed cutting some of the training and employment programs that the Labor Department runs. Congress provided $5.6 billion for the programs this year.
In his State of the Union address on Tuesday, Mr. Bush said: "When America works, America prospers. So my economic security plan can be summed up in one word, jobs."
In a radio address on Jan. 12, the president said he would ask Congress for an increase of $73 million "to expand the good work of the Job Corps," which receives nearly $1.5 billion of the $5.6 billion total spent on employment and training this year.
But Mr. Bush did not mention the cuts sought by the White House in grants to the states for employment and training services, a 10 percent reduction in assistance to dislocated workers, a 5 percent cut in training for adults and a cut of 11 percent in grants for training school dropouts and other "economically disadvantaged youths" from 14 to 21.
The director of the Office of Management and Budget, Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., has laid the groundwork for some of the proposals by saying he wants to rationalize and consolidate programs "littered across the government." 
"Why," Mr. Daniels asked, "do 10 departments of our government in 48 separate programs try to train people for jobs?"
Experts in the field said Mr. Bush's proposals were somewhat surprising, because as governor of Texas Mr. Bush strongly supported job programs run with federal money provided under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998. Texas was a pioneer in training workers to meet employers' needs.
Houston Works USA, which runs a widely admired program with $25 million a year in federal money, has helped more than 1,200 of the 4,500 workers who are losing jobs at the Enron Corporation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CLOSINGS (73%); STATISTICS (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (66%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); FUEL TAX (51%) LABOR; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (83%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); JOB CORPS (56%) UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DON YOUNG (78%); JIM OBERSTAR (58%) PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



969 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Budget Cuts by Bush Include Job Training 

 BODY:
Even though unemployment has increased sharply in recent months, President Bush's budget will seek cuts in several job-training programs for laid-off workers and young adults most affected by the rise in unemployment, according to budget documents and federal officials.
 Bush administration officials question the effectiveness of some of the jobs programs, which Congress created with overwhelming bipartisan support four years ago. 
 The United States Conference of Mayors sent a protest letter this week to the White House criticizing an administration plan to cut "youth opportunity grants," to $45 million next year from $225 million this year. The mayors said the cut would hurt some of the poorest communities, including parts of Detroit, Houston, Los Angeles and Philadelphia. 
Article, Page A20. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); MAYORS (88%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 



970 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Germans Tell Liberty Media Its Cable Deal Is in Jeopardy 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

 BODY:
Competition regulators in Germany will formally warn the Liberty Media Corporation today that they will block its $5 billion deal to buy Deutsche Telekom's cable television systems if Liberty does not significantly change its business plan, according to executives who have seen the written warning already sent to the company.
 The step could derail plans by John C. Malone, who controls Liberty Media, to become the biggest cable operator in Europe. 
 Liberty Media confirmed last night that it had received a statement of objections from Germany's cartel office and said in a news release that it would review the statement "to determine whether we can satisfy the concerns that have been raised in a manner consistent with a sustainable business plan and capital structure that would provide appropriate returns to our shareholders." The company said it planned to make a formal response after it completed its review. 
German officials have scheduled a news conference today to discuss Liberty's plans, and the cartel office plans to make a final decision by Feb. 28. Liberty has so far been unwilling to make concessions, and Mr. Malone has a history of walking away from deals at the last minute.
The German authorities' biggest concern, according to executives who have seen the warning, is that Liberty has refused to commit itself to upgrading the cable systems so it can provide high-speed Internet connections and phone service in competition with Deutsche Telekom.
German and European competition regulators pressed Deutsche Telekom to sell its cable systems because they wanted competition in local phone and Internet services.
Mr. Malone and Liberty executives in Germany say they plan to introduce Internet services, but they do not want to be pushed into specific commitments on how many local networks will be upgraded.
As envisioned, Liberty would acquire cable systems with about 10 million subscribers -- 60 percent of all cable customers in Germany.
Mr. Malone is also trying to buy several smaller cable companies that provide local connections to viewers. German regulators worry about some of these acquisition plans, as well, though that is thought to be less important to them than the Internet matter.
Mr. Malone, though, could still get his way. Deutsche Telekom, which has considerable political influence, badly wants to complete the sale and reduce a heavy debt load.
The company has been struggling with the outsized costs associated with buying wireless companies in the United States and Europe as well as the billions of dollars it has paid for licenses to offer "third generation" wireless services in Germany and Britain.
If the regulators reject a purchase by Liberty, it and Deutsche Telekom are likely to press Chancellor Gerhard Schroder for an order from the economics minister overruling the cartel office.
But the politics of that are precarious. The German government has rarely handed down such exemptions, and Mr. Schroder is under pressure to provide one that would allow E.On, Germany's second-largest power company, to buy the nation's largest natural gas distributor.
Deutsche Telekom has already sold several cable systems, all of them to companies controlled by Americans. 
Liberty Media has been negotiating with Deutsche Telekom for more than a year. Arriving at a time when the phone company's stock price was plunging and the value of cable systems was sliding as well, Liberty drove a hard bargain.
Deutsche Telekom had originally hoped to retain a substantial stake in its cable systems, with a view toward selling the rest at a higher price later. But it eventually agreed to sell the entire system to Liberty.
Mr. Malone is juggling other deal possibilities in Germany. He is the second-biggest shareholder in the News Corporation, which in turn appears to be seeking greater control over the Kirch Group, a Munich-based media conglomerate that owns commercial television networks, pay television networks, broadcast rights to major sports events and a vast library of movies and television programs.
Kirch is also under financial pressure, burdened with high debt and big losses from pay television. Rupert Murdoch, who controls the News Corporation, has an option that allows him to sell back a 22 percent stake in Kirch's pay TV business, a move that Kirch executives have said they cannot finance now.
Mr. Malone expressed interest in buying the stake himself several months ago, but the Kirch Group's founder, Leo Kirch, strongly objected. Many industry experts think that Mr. Malone as well as Mr. Kirch have their eyes on control of the Kirch empire, which would provide access to a treasure trove of sports and entertainment programming.
Today, the screws tightened a bit more on Mr. Kirch, when the German publisher Axel Springer said it would exercise an option to sell back shares in Kirch's broadcasting business for more than $700 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); BUSINESS PLANS (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); CARTELS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (88%); DEREGULATION (79%); BROADBAND (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (54%) TELEVISION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: LIBERTY MEDIA CORP (94%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (92%); LIBERTY INTERACTIVE CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBERTY MEDIA CORP; DEUTSCHE TELEKOM 

TICKER: LMCA (NASDAQ) (94%); DTE (FRA) (92%); DTE (BIT) (92%); LINTA (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (94%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (91%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (91%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (91%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (91%) SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TV SERVICES; SIC4812 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS; SIC6719 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (89%); GERHARD SCHRODER (58%) MALONE, JOHN C; ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) GERMANY; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2002 

 
